
JULY MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 19, 2001
The Regents convened at 1:35 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little,
Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Horning arrived at about 2:15 p.m.
President's Opening Remarks
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and reviewed the meeting schedule.
He commented that the requested tuition increase represents a higher percentage increase
than over the past few years, albeit still lower than most other state institutions. He
observed that 15 years ago there was a great deal of public skepticism about the cost of
higher education, but that this had dissipated with improvements in the educational and
research opportunities for undergraduate students. He noted that his administration had
pledged from the outset to keep tuition increases as low as possible, working in partnership
with the state, and that this has turned out to be a sound working relationship.
President Bollinger commented that if the recommended tuition increase is
approved, the average tuition for the past 5 years will have increased by 4 percent per
year, in contrast with the 3.7 percent average annual increase of Michigan State
University over the same period. This year's proposed tuition increase for the University
of Michigan is also the second lowest in the Big Ten.
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced Barbara Butterfield, associate vice
president for human resources, noting that her efforts had been crucial to the recent
successful implementation of the PeopleSoft human resources application.
Introductory Comments - 2001-2002 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the Auxiliary Activities budget for the
Ann Arbor campus shows a budget deficit for the forthcoming year, but this has to do with
the shifting of funds for accounting purposes and has no bearing on the state of the
University's finances.
He observed that the University continues to have a very strong balance sheet and to
be in excellent financial health. The three means by which this can be evaluated are to
examine whether 1) the University is able to effectively track and manage financial
performance; 2) the balance sheet is protected with respect to the relationship of current
assets to current liabilities, the mix and quality of the assets, and the size and nature of the
liabilities; and 3) the operating budget is consistent with maintaining the University's
overall financial health.




July Meeting, 2001


With respect to financial performance, Executive Vice President Kasdin reported
that the University had received an unqualified audit opinion with no management letter
comments from the auditors. Nevertheless, he said that the University is continuing to
focus on improvements in financial controls and compliance, and he described as an
example how the reimbursement process for travel and hosting has been simplified and
improved. He noted that with the M-Pathways human resources implementation, the
University has successfully completed total replacement of its management information
systems, which is the infrastructure for financial, physical, human resources, and student
business.
Executive Vice President Kasdin explained that the M-Pathways system allows the
University to analyze its "supply chain": how it procures goods and services. This
analysis has enabled the University to identify opportunities for new strategic
procurement initiatives, negotiate better pricing, monitor compliance with internal
procurement policies, and lower transaction costs. He observed that, partly due to
comments made at Regents' Meetings, the University has been very aggressive in its
efforts to reduce costs and save money.
He noted that one of the University's most visible and largest vendors is the
company that supplies pharmaceutical benefits to employees. Determining how to more
effectively manage prescription drug costs has been a major recent area of focus, and as a
result of an inclusive process that included three faculty-staff task forces, three alternative
proposals have been developed that could lead to a meaningful decrease in
pharmaceutical costs to the University.
Regent Taylor commented that he was pleased with the focus on trying to control
supply chain purchasing. Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that there is over 90%
acceptance of prime vendor contracts throughout the University, and great efforts are
being made to increase the number of these contracts.
Regent Newman asked whether these efforts apply to travel, because tremendous
savings can be realized from centralizing travel. Executive Vice President Kasdin
responded that the University has been holding discussions with major airline carriers to
address this issue.   Further discussion  followed regarding  the People Soft
implementation.
Regarding the balance sheet, Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the
University has an excellent set of assets, including investments (60%) and physical
properties (26%). Another important asset, he pointed out, is the 30,100 faculty and staff
employed by the three campuses. Salaries and benefits for these employees constitute
59% of the operating budget, 70% excluding the Hospitals and Health Centers. He
reviewed some of the efforts that are being made to attract and retain people, including
investing in both job-specific skills development and more general professional
development courses for staff and improving the tuition support program for all
employees.
Executive Vice President Kasdin next reiterated the University's commitment to
renewal of the existing physical plant and noted that 1997 was the only year in which
more was spent on new construction than on rehabilitation of the physical plant. He
observed that the state's commitment to periodic capital outlays has been critical to the
University's ability to continue to rehabilitate the physical plant.


2




July Meeting, 2001


He reviewed the various means being used to aggressively manage the University's
balance sheet, including scrutinizing non-investment assets, improving collection and
disbursement practices, and focusing on reducing the volume of accounts receivable.
Finally, he commented that the University has a diverse mix of liabilities and
pointed out the strong credit rating, the consistent debt management policy, and the
aggressive interest expense management procedures. In conclusion, he reported that the
proposed budget will have a financial impact that is consistent with maintaining the
University's overall financial health.
Ann Arbor Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee
Rates
Associate Provost Paul Courant noted that the Ann Arbor General Fund operating
budget was developed by Provost Cantor and President Bollinger, with assistance from a
number of staff in the Office of the Provost, the Office of the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer, and the deans' offices. Provost Cantor commented on the
University's long-standing partnership with the state and noted the inverse relationship
between the amount of the state appropriations increase and the tuition and fees increase.
Because the state appropriations increase for 2001-02 is projected to be lower than it has
been for some time, the recommended tuition increase is going to be higher.
Regent Newman asked why universities tend to increase tuition rather than engage in
belt-tightening in the face of a slowing state economy. Associate Provost Courant
observed that the budget does incorporate a good deal of belt-tightening, even given the
tuition increase. He also noted that the higher education sector works differently from
other sectors of the economy in that demands placed on higher education are not reduced
during these periods. In fact, during downturns in the economy, people tend to return to
school in higher numbers than when the economy is growing.
Associate Provost Courant displayed a chart of the 2001-02 tuition and fee
increases at all Big Ten Universities, which indicated that the University of Michigan had
the lowest increase except for Northwestern University, a private institution. Regent
Newman commented that it would be helpful to have the actual dollar amounts of the
increases, in addition to the percentages; this was subsequently provided. Associate
Provost Courant also displayed a chart of the 2001-02 percentage increases for the other
Michigan public institutions; the University of Michigan had the lowest percentage
increase of these institutions. He pointed out that the across-the-board higher increases
than in the recent past for all of these institutions indicates that they are all facing similar
challenges financially and are responding in a similar manner by raising tuition much
more sharply than they have in recent years.
He pointed out that for 2001-02, tuition plus state appropriation revenues make up
87% of the General Fund; the remainder is largely derived from indirect cost recovery.
Tuition and state appropriation, he noted, "are derived from the payers whose welfare we
care about most" —the taxpayers and the students and families who pay the tuition.
Therefore, it is important to be as careful as possible in the use of these resources.
Associate Provost Courant observed that in his opinion as an economics professor,
inflation is not a good normative index of how much expenditures should grow.
Expenditures and industries in the economy grow at the rate of growth of income, which


3




July Meeting, 2001


includes both inflation and real increased output. He believes that the growth of income
is an especially appropriate benchmark for higher education, as it contributes to this
growth in two ways: through the training of the skilled labor force that produces
economic growth and higher standards of living and through the research that changes
what can be done in the world, which in turns produces economic growth. As the world
becomes more complicated and its history lengthens, he said, the University must keep
pace, which requires real growth, not just growth that is sufficient to match a price index.
In summary, the University's mission requires that it must do more than simply keep pace
with costs.
He commented that the five budgets developed under the Bollinger administration
are materially lower as a group than the budgets for the five preceding years. This
illustrates important aspects of stewardship on the part of the board and the
administration, as the innovations and improvements that have occurred during this time
have been accomplished during a period of markedly slower growth in real flexible
resources than during any comparably successful period in the institution's history. This
represents continual attention to reducing costs and reallocating resources, and it also
indicates the way in which growth in both philanthropy and sponsored research make a
critical difference in the University's ability to carry out its mission.
Associate Provost Courant described the special challenges which affect the
2001-02 budget. These are increased prices for natural gas; staff benefits, especially
prescription drug prices; and administrative information and management systems. He
noted that the University plans to address the prescription drug issue in the coming year.
Regarding natural gas prices, Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that we are
currently in a period of dramatic volatility in the price of natural gas, and as a result of
that the University has chosen to hedge its natural gas exposure for the coming year. The
new administrative information and management systems have allowed the University to
make vast improvements in academic advising, online course selection and registration,
and a host of other areas that will improve students' University experience.
Associate Provost Courant pointed to four areas in which the University needs to
maintain momentum:    the Life Sciences Initiative; improving the undergraduate
experience through a variety of programs; enhancements in information technology; and
maintaining excellence in research and scholarship. He described some of the projects
underway in each of these areas.
Associate Provost Courant observed that the process for building the budget
involves the same considerations every year; namely, determining the additional costs
that will be required to retain faculty and staff, cover benefits increases, increase
financial aid to cover tuition increases, cover library acquisition cost increases, meet the
year's special challenges, cover inflation on the rest of the expenditures, and fund any
new initiatives. He noted that the fact that tuition and state appropriation are insufficient
to cover the additional costs illustrates that the new initiatives are actually being funded
by cost reduction, reallocation, and similar measures. As examples of cost reduction, he
noted that the local telephone contract has been renegotiated; a new purchasing
arrangement has been developed for electricity; the increased use of web applications
will save money in the admissions office; procurement improvements have been achieved


4




July Meeting, 2001


as detailed earlier by Executive Vice President Kasdin; and faculty and staff have been
relocated to areas of greatest demand.
Finally, he displayed the recommended General Fund budget for FY 2002, which
totals $1,042,800,000. He pointed out that for the fifth year in a row, the growth in
academic programs will be greater than that for administrative expenditures.
Associate Provost Courant concluded that the budget consolidates the
implementation of a powerful vision of the modern research university and the roles it
can play in the education of undergraduates, the development of knowledge, service to
society, and the interactions among those activities. The return on the investment in a
college education, he noted, is at the highest level ever, and the best universities,
including the University of Michigan, return the greatest value, both economically and
more generally.
A three minute break followed, after which the meeting continued at 3:05 p.m.
Dearborn Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee
Rates
Chancellor Little observed that the University of Michigan-Dearborn is an exceptional
value for the people of the state, in that it provides a high quality education for 8,500
students at a cost of just over $69 million.
He described the values behind the budget and the process by which the budget was
developed, noting that a campus-wide budget committee had been established which was
charged with reviewing and commenting on budget issues throughout the process. He
emphasized that the Dearborn campus administration is very concerned with accessibility
and maintaining the cost of its education at an affordable level. The proposed budget
allows for the addition of new faculty to address enrollment growth, areas of strong
student interest, and new programmatic areas.
Chancellor Little commented that the Dearborn campus is even more dependent on
state appropriation and tuition than the Ann Arbor campus, leading to a recommended
tuition and fee increase for resident undergraduate lower division students of 9.4%.
Flint Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee Rates
Chancellor Mestas noted that the Flint campus has a very open budget process, with
all of the information being made available to the entire campus at every phase. The basic
principle on which the budget is based is "to provide affordable access to excellent
education." As the budget is comprised of one-half state appropriation and one-half tuition
and fees, the state appropriation is a key element.  Based on an anticipated state
appropriation increase of only 1.5%, therefore, the proposed resident undergraduate tuition
and fee increase is 10.5%. Although this percentage is the highest of the University's three
campuses, he noted, the dollar amount of the increase is the lowest.
Chancellor Mestas pointed out that the University of Michigan-Flint is currently the
fourth least expensive public higher education institution in the state, and it will retain
this status for the coming fiscal year. He noted that as is the case for the other campuses,
financial aid will be adjusted to incorporate the tuition increase, and if the final state
appropriation is over 1.5%, the tuition increase will be adjusted accordingly. He


5




July Meeting, 2001


observed that the expenses driving the budget on the Flint campus are the same as those
on the other campuses, including increased costs for energy and technological
improvements. In conclusion, he said that "dollar for dollar, the UM-Flint is the best
educational deal in Michigan."
2001-02 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Student Legal
Services (SLS), and School/College Governments
Vice President Harper reported that the fee assessment recommendations of $5.69 per
student per term for Michigan Student Assembly, $5.50 per student per term for Student
Legal Services, and $1.50 per student per term for school and college governments are
unchanged from last year.
2001-02 University Health Service Fee
Vice President Harper observed that an increase of 6.0 percent ($6.70 per student, per
term) is being requested for the University Health Service fee. This figure will fund
expected increases in the costs of utilities, the costs of hiring additional clinical and
nonclinical staff to cover an increase in utilization, and increases in public health and
preventive services.
Proposed FY 2002 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Operating
Budget
Executive Vice President Omenn introduced Larry Warren, executive director of the
Hospitals and Health Centers; Tom Biggs, chief financial officer; and Kathleen Moore,
chief budget officer.  Executive Vice President Omenn reported that both hospital
admissions and clinic visits increased significantly over the previous year. He noted that
recruitment of several categories of clinical staff, including nurses and pharmacists, is a
consistent need and a high priority so as to be able to meet the increased demand for
services.
Executive Vice President Omenn reported that the fiscal year 2001 was completed
with an $11.6 million positive operating margin, despite having received lower
reimbursements than expected. The proposal for FY 2002 projects a significant increase
in revenue, attributable both to increased volume and improved reimbursement rates.
Extensive efforts are also being made to control costs. An operating margin of 2% is
projected.
Regent White commented that she felt it was important to emphasize how important
it is that the Hospitals and Health System budget is in the black, and it is a tribute to the
work of the HHS leadership that this is the case.
FY 2002 University of Michigan Department of Athletics Operating Budgets
Mr. Bill Martin, Donald R. Shepherd Director of Intercollegiate Athletics, presented
the Athletic Department operating budget. He noted that the FY 2000-01 budget had
projected an operating deficit of $5.0 million, but the actual deficit only amounted to about
$2.0 million. More than two-thirds of the positive variance was attributable to revenue
increases in the form of licensing and annual giving, and the balance was from reducing
expenses.


6




July Meeting, 2001


Mr. Martin noted that the fiscal year 2002 budget projects a budget surplus of $1.1
million, with revenues of $50,598,000 and expenses of $49,467,000. He reviewed the
various aspects of projected revenues and expenses, the details of which are included in
the Regents Communication.
Comparing the University of Michigan's revenues to the average of those of the Big
Ten shows that almost half of the University's revenues come from gate admissions, as
opposed to 37% for the Big Ten. The University is much stronger in sponsorship
revenues than the Big Ten average; however, in contrast to the other Big Ten schools, it
receives no institutional support. The University of Michigan also lags behind the other
Big Ten institutions in annual donations.
Mr. Martin reported that in the FY 2002 budget, football ticket revenue at Michigan
represents 85% and men's basketball 8% of the total, compared to 72% and 20%,
respectively, for the Big Ten. He also compared the University of Michigan's expenses
with those of the Big Ten, with the major difference being a higher cost for financial aid
at Michigan. He noted that the University of Michigan Athletic Department has a
relatively modest amount of debt.
Mr. Martin reviewed the ten-year history of capital expenditures and noted that with
a few exceptions, only modest amounts have been invested in facilities. The major
challenges faced by the department are rebuilding the athletic campus and maintaining an
annual stable budget.
Mr. Martin addressed the issue of football ticket distribution and noted that the
fundamental issue is one of fairness and no decisions have been made yet. Regarding the
athletic department's production facility, he commented that discussions are underway as
to how to best utilize this facility.
Mr. Martin noted that a consultant had been hired to look at all of the Athletic
Department's facilities, including the football stadium, where issues include possible
expansion of the stadium and rebuilding of the press box. The interior of Crisler Arena is
also being evaluated, as the facility has never been renovated and the lighting, seating,
locker rooms, and other features are inadequate. He noted that the seating arrangements
have been changed for the upcoming basketball season to create a more exciting
environment.
Regent Newman suggested that consideration be given to improved marketing and
merchandising efforts within the football, basketball, and hockey venues.  Regent
Brandon congratulated Mr. Martin and his colleagues for achieving a significant positive
variance in the 2001 budget and a projected positive margin for the 2002 budget. Mr.
Martin noted that the president and executive officers have been very supportive of the
department's efforts.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated:
Stephen L. Chen, medical resident, on residency classification guidelines; Audrey L.
Jackson, alumna, on affirmative action; and Sandra Hansen, citizen, representing the Dexter
Area Historical Society, on Gordon Hall.


7




July Meeting, 2001


Regent Taylor requested further information about residency classification
guidelines.
The meeting recessed at 4:15 p.m.
Friday, July 20, 2001
The Regents convened at 9:55 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor,
and White. Also present were Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little,
Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and recognized Executive Vice
President Omenn. Executive Vice President Omenn introduced five University of
Michigan graduate students who are members of "Team DAX", who are bicycling across
the country to raise awareness about diabetes. A round of applause followed.
President's Opening Remarks
President Bollinger announced that the University of Michigan entry in the American
Solar Challenge race, M-Pulse, is currently in first place in the competition. He also noted
that Regent White has been selected to serve as a White House Fellow for the 2001-02
class, and he reported on the recent discovery by Assistant Professor Jon-Kar Zubieta of
variability in the pain-response system. President Bollinger reported the recent deaths of a
University student; Heinz Prechter, a generous friend of the University; and several emeritus
professors.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the June
21-22, 2001 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Investment, Plant
Extension, Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and the Regents Report on
Noncompetitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources.
Liatgation Reprt. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.    Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for June 2001 and noted that expenditures to date for this year are up about
9%.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn did not
have any additional information to report.
Division of Student Affairs.  Vice President Harper called attention to the
recommended appointment of Frank Cianciola as senior associate vice president for
student affairs.


8




July Meeting, 2001


University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little announced the publication of
the book, Before Motown: A History of Jazz in Detroit, co-authored by Lars Bjorn,
professor of sociology on the Dearborn campus. He also reported on the publication in a
prestigious journal of research done by a Dearborn student while he was an
undergraduate and called attention to the important role the Henry Ford Estate plays on
the campus and in the community.
University  of Michigan-Flint       Chancellor Mestas called    attention  to the
recommendation for establishment of a doctor of physical therapy program on the Flint
Campus and noted that it will be the first doctorate offered on that campus. He observed
that the Flint physical therapy program is recognized as one of the finest in the nation and
that the director, Paulette Cibulski, was present.
Michigan Student Assembly. There was no report from the Michigan Student
Assembly.
Voluntary Support        Vice President Feagin noted that the report of voluntary
support for June 2001 and for July 1, 2000-June 30, 2001 would be submitted at the
September meeting.
Personnel Actions. President Bollinger submitted the following personnel actions.
He noted that the effective date for the appointment of John LiPuma was incorrectly stated
as September 1, 2000. The correct date is September 1, 2001.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH1 TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Boland, Julie E., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Linguistics and Associate Professor of Psychology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001
Buresh, Tom J., M.Arch., Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, August 1, 2001
Constant, Caroline, M.Arch, Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2001
Coval, Joshua D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2001
DiNardo, John, Ph.D., Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, September 1,
2001
Eklund, Stephen A., D.D.S., Dr.P.H., Professor of Public Health, School of Public Health, September 1,
2001
Gerber, Elisabeth R., Ph.D., Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
September 1, 2001
Hildebrandt, Friedhelm, M.D., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor for the Cure and Prevention of Birth
Defects, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Professor of
Human Genetics, without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2001
Kipke, Daryl, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001
Lupia, Arthur, Ph.D., Professor of Polictical Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001
Nornes, Mark H., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Film and Video Studies and Associate Professor of
Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001
Varshney, Ashutosh, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2001
Woo-Cumings, Meredith, Ph.D., Professor of Political Science and Korean Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001


9




July Meeting, 2001


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PRO[MOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOII UT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Blaauw, David, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2001
Kugler, Marianne Russell, Ph.D., Interim Dean, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
August 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Misra, Dawn P., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public
Health, September 1, 2001
Pochoda, Philip, Ph.D., Director, University of Michigan Press, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, August 15, 2001-August 14, 2006
Ralston, Steven M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Communication and Chair, Department of
Communication, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Steward, James C., Ph.D., Director of Art, Museum of Art, Associate Professor of Art, School of Art and
Design, and Associate Professor of History of Art, Effective on the dates indicated September 1,
2001
REAPPOINTMENTS C)F REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Gurin, Patricia Y., Chair, Department of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Shridhar, Malayappan, Chair, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATF~ STAFF
Effecti've on the dates indicated
Cianciola, Frank J., Senior Associate Vice President for Student Affairs, Office of the Vice President
for Student Affairs, July 1, 2001
Feldman, Martha S., Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and
Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Associate Dean, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, September 1, 2001-August 31,
2003
Goldstein, Irwin J., Interim Chair, Department of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, July 1, 2001
LiPuma, John J., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, also appointed Associate Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public
Health, September 1, 2000-August 31, 2003
Lotfi, Vahid, Professor of Management Science, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management, also
appointed Associate Provost, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Price, Richard H., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, without tenure,
School of Business Administration, also appointed Director, Program on Organizational Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Reid, Pamela Trotman, Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, also appointed Director, Women' s Studies Program, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Siebers, Tobin, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed Director,
Program in Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1, 2001-June 30, 2005
Studlar, Gaylyn, Rudolf Arnheim Collegiate Professor of Film Studies, Professor of English Language
and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Music, without tenure, School of Music, also appointed
Director, Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1, 2001-June 30, 2005
Wald, Alan M., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of American
Culture, with tenure, also appointed Director, Program in American Culture, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2001-June 30, 2003


10




July Meeting, 2001


APPROVAL OF LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMIISTRATIVE STAINS
Effective September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Mastrangelo, Carlos, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
personal leave extended
ESTABLjISHIING AND RE~NAMVING P3ROF1ESSOIRSH3IP3S
AOND SEILECTlED ACADEMIC AD)MINISTlRATIVEi POgSIT1IONS
Effective on September 1, 2001
Establishin  iamed Proessorshi
C. P. Cavafy Professor in Modern Greek Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Helen Herzog Zell Professorship in Fiction, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
amin      g     iProessrships
Frank H. T. Rhodes Collegiate Professorship in Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
OTHIER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
ew Appointments to Established Proessorship
Blair, David C., Jack D. Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of Business Administration,
School of Business Administration, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Brewer, George J., Morton S. and Henrietta K. Sellnar Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Dichev, Ilia, Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Kulik, Thomas J., Amnon Rosenthal Collegiate Professor of Pediatric Cardiology, Medical School,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2008
Oswald, Lynda J., Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Research Professor of Business and Law, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Robertson, Patricia L., David G. Dickinson Collegiate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Robinson, Terry E., Elliot S. Valenstein Collegiate Professor of Behavioral Science, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Shumway, Tyler G., Bank One Corporation Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Smoyer, William E., Robert C. Kelsch Collegiate Professor of Pediatric Nephrology, Medical School,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Taylor, Robert Joseph, Sheila Feld Collegiate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
enewe A     ointent to sta     e   roessors
Agranoff, Bernard W., Ralph Waldo Gerard Professor of Neurosciences, Medical School,
January 18, 2001-August 31, 2003
Montie, James E., Valassis Professor of Urologic Oncology, Medical School, July 19, 2001-June 18,
2006
Interim Appointn t Approval The Regents authorized the president or the provost
and executive vice president for academic affairs to make such interim appointments and/or
changes as become necessary from August 1-31, 2001, to complete the staffing for the fall
term 2001.
CO3M:MIfTTEE~ APPOINTM~lENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Alrumni Association Business and Financial Affairs Committee
Barry, Elizabeth M., new appointment, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002


11




July Meeting, 2001


Beaver, Frank E., retroactive, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002
Traugott, Michael W., retroactive, July 1, 2000-June 30, 2002
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Katcher, Richard, alumni member, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Cecil A. Pryor, term expired
Committee on Honorary Derees
Carter-Su, Christin, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice George I. Shirley, term expired
James, Sherman A., July 1, 2001-June 30-2004, vice Bram Van Leer, term expired
Personn~el Reports. President Bollinger submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adair, Troy A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Finance, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2003
Brooks, Brian P., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Bundschu, Claudia C., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Burke, Christopher J.F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Science Education, UM-Dearborn School of
Education, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2004
Chong, Kok-Heng, M.S., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry,
June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Dalton, Vanessa K., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
Ferris, Daniel P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2005
Harp, Nicholas A., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2001
Hemmila, Mark R., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Hicken, Allen D., M.I.A., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Hornyak, Joseph E., M.D., Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and Assistant
Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, June 4, 2001-June 3, 2002
McGee, Sean H., M.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2001
Meiners, Jens-Christian D., Dr. Rer. Nat., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, March 22, 2001-May 31, 2004
Milling, Cassandra J., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Mozurkewich, Ellen L., M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Nairus, Theresa M., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Nix, Jamie L., M.M., Assistant Professor of Music (Conducting), School of Music,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Ortega, Robert, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Primus, Richard A., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Redding, Lee S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
September 1, 2001-April 30, 2004
Riolo, Stephanie A. M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, May 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Sabel, Michael S., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Schwarz, Bill, B.A., Lecturer I in International Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Singh-Parikshak, Rita, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Sunahara, Roger K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School,
May 21, 2001-May 20, 2002
Theisen, Sean E., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Tucker, Nancy S., Ph.D., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 1-June 30, 2001
Vettorello, Nancy E., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Weaver-Price, Elizabeth M., B.S., Lecturer II in Biological Station, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, June 1-August 31, 2001


12




July Meeting, 2001


CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENT
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 20, 2001
Blakemore, Laurel C., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, April 1, 2001-March 31,
2002 (previously reported as Lecturer in Surgery)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Paul A., from Lecturer II in American Culture and Lecturer II in History to Assistant
Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of Afro American and African Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Brennan, Kathleen A., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Carlson, Martha D., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases and from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Consens, Flavia B., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Kim, Grace O., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Economics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2003
Krasan, Graham P., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Kwak, Nojin, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Nolta, Kathleen V., Lecturer III in Chemistry, also appointed Lecturer II in Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2001
Sakurai, Sharin Y., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS OF
CLINICAL FACULTY AND PRIMARY RESEARCH SCIENTISTS
Effective on September 1, 2001
Schulenberg, John E., from Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social
Research, Associate Research Scientist, Center for Human Growth and Development, and
Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to
Senior Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, Research
Scientist, Center for Human Growth and Development, and Associate Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Counsell, Raymond E., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus
of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Davis, Dale A., Associate Professor Emeritus of Management and Accounting, UM-Flint School of
Management, January 1-July 31, 2001
Fajans, Stefan S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2000-July 31,
2002
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, May 1-August 31, 2001
Keller, Robert B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
December 1, 2000-June 30, 2001
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering, June 1-August 31, 2001
Merte, Herman Jr., Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
December 1, 2000-June 30, 2001


13




July Meeting, 2001


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aller, Hugh D., Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Barrett, David E., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Beckley, Robert M., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, personal leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Borkin, Harold J., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, retirement furlough, September 1-December 31, 2001
Dalton, Vanessa K., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, personal leave,
July 2-July 15, 2001
Hoffmann, George P., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Howes, Alan B., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Lamm, Doron, Lecturer III in Hebrew Languages, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Murtuza, Syed, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of
Engineering, retirement furlough, January 1-August 31, 2001
Nicholson, Jane M., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Clinical Assistant
Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, extended sick leave, March 24-April 29,
2001, and personal leave, May 21-May 27, 2001
Robinson, Emerson, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, retirement furlough,
June 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Rosen, Hannah, Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of Women' s Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Sieving, Paul A., Paul R. Lichter Professor of Ophthalmic Genetics and Professor of Ophthalmology
and Visual Sciences, with tenure, Medical School, public service leave, June 17, 2001-June 16,
2002
Toman, Jindrich, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Warner, Kate P., Associate Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Woodman, Ellen A., Assistant Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, retirement furlough, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Lunn, Joe H., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, scholarly activity leave, July 1-December 31, 2001 (previously reported as
September 1-December 31, 2001
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on July 19, 2001
Rounds, William C., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Andonyadis, Nephelie M., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, May 31, 2001
Aso, Kumiko, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2001
Chen, Yun-Ching, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 31, 2001
Choi, Yoon S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 2001
Dhingra, Rajnish K., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2001


14




July Meeting, 2001


Dubay, Daniel A., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 19, 2001
Gardner, Catherine H. V., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 31, 2001
Lin, Liwei, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, College of
Engineering, August 31, 1999
MacCannon, Deidre S., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Murthy, Thippeswamy H., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Peliska, James A., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, August 31, 2001
Pennington, Michele L., Clinical Instructor II in Family Medicine, Medical School, May 4, 2001
Sandall, Gary S., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, April 1, 2001
Sarch, Amy S., Assistant Professor of Communications, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31,
2001
Soparkar, Nandit R., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2001
Srolovitz, David J., Edward D. Campbell Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2001
Retired
Brewer, George J., Morton S. and Henrietta K. Sellner Professor of Human Genetics, Professor of
Human Genetics, with tenure, and Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical
School,
June 30, 2001
Hultquist, Donald E., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, August 31, 2001
Morawa, Arnold P., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, June 30, 2001
Oberman, Harold A., Professor of Pathology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Richards, James W., Professor of Social and Administrative Sciences, College of Pharmacy, June 30,
2001
Thomas, John W., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Health,
May 31, 2001
Thompson, Norman W., Henry King Ransom Endowed Professor of Surgery and Professor of Surgery,
with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Weisbuch, Robert A., Assistant to the Dean, Budget and Finance, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 8, 2001
Term Completed
Cavallaro, Frank S., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Close, Julie P., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law, Law School, June 29, 2001
Corpron, Cynthia A., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001
Endres, William J., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, May 31, 2001
Hornbuckle, Andrea C., Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
June 19, 2001
Hovey, Joseph D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2000
Kaiser, Jacqueline S., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Keller, Robert B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
June 30, 2001
Kim, Julee, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
2001
McCray, Valerie L., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2000
Merte, Herman Jr., Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, June 30, 2001
Oh, Eugene, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Olsen, Tava M., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
May 31, 2001
Patterson, Donald J., Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
December 31, 2000
Perriguey, Gerald J. III, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Port, James L., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Stuligross, David P., Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2001
Sutherland, Douglas S., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Syed, IbrahimN., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Thwaite, Erica L., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Weiss, Kenneth L., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Widmayer, Anne F., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2001


15




July Meeting, 2001


Zhang, Rachel Q., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
May 31, 2001
Deceased
Thomas, Isaac C. III, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 8, 2001
CORRECTION TO TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Sweeney, John F., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, resigned, May 31, 2001 (previously
reported as May 25, 2001)
Retirement Memolirs.   Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption seven
retirement memoirs.
George J. Brewer, M.D., professor of human genetics, the Morton S. and Henrietta
K. Sellner Professor of Human Genetics, and professor of internal medicine, Medical
School, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2001.
Dr. Brewer received his B.S. degree from Purdue University in 1952 and his M.D.
degree from the University of Chicago in 1956. Following his clinical training, he came
to the University of Michigan Department of Human Genetics as a postdoctoral fellow in
1963. He joined the faculty as an assistant professor of internal medicine in 1965 and
was promoted to professor in 1976. In the Department of Human Genetics, he was named
associate professor in 1967 and professor in 1970. He was named the first Morton S.
and Henrietta K. Sellner Professor of Human Genetics in 2000.
Professor Brewer has dedicated his professional life to bridging the gap between
advances in laboratory research and the problems faced in clinical medicine. In
experiments with zinc therapy for sickle cell anemia, he discovered that zinc caused
copper deficiency. He and his collaborators turned this unwanted side effect into a new
treatment for Wilson's disease, an inherited defect of copper accumulation and toxicity.
Dr. Brewer became an internationally recognized expert on Wilson's disease and cared
for and studied almost 300 patients with this condition. His persistent and rigorous
pursuit of a safe and effective therapy for Wilson's disease led to FDA approval of zinc
acetate therapy for Wilson's disease in 1997.
For 22 years, Dr. Brewer directed the University's NIH Training Grant Program in
Genetics, one of the largest such programs in the country. He was president of the
American College of Nutrition and received its highest honor, a mastership. He also
served as president of the International Society for Trace Element Research in Humans
and received its highest award, the Raulin Award, in 1998.
The Regents salute this faculty member by naming George J. Brewer professor
emeritus of human genetics and professor emeritus of internal medicine.
John G. Cross, Ph.D., professor of economics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and senior associate research scientist in the Mental Health Research Institute,
Medical School, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Cross received his A.B. degree from Amherst College in 1960 and his
Ph.D. degree from Princeton University in 1964. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an assistant professor of economics and assistant research economist in the
Mental Health Research Institute in 1965 and was promoted to associate professor and
associate research scientist in 1968 and professor in 1973. He was named senior
associate research scientist in 1997.
Professor Cross specialized in mnicroeconomic decision theory. He was a founder
of modern theories of the bargaining process and of interdependent decision-making in


16




July Meeting, 2001


general. His early book, The Economics of Bargaining, is still referenced in the
literature. He was also an early proponent of the introduction of psychological theories
into economic models. His book, Theory of Adaptive Economic Behavior, was the first
to use formal psychological models of adaptive learning to develop models of market
behavior of both producers and consumers which allowed for patterns of behavior other
than those dictated by strict rules of rationality.
In 1987, Professor Cross was appointed associate dean for academic appointments
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. In 1991, he became the associate dean
for budget and administration —a position that continued until the end of 2000. Throughout
his tenure as an academic administrator, he provided exceptional service to the college
and the entire University community while continuing to teach at least one course each
year.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming John G. Cross professor
emeritus of economics and senior associate research scientist emeritus.
Syed Murtuza, Ph.D., professor of electrical and computer engineering in the
College of Engineering and Computer Science at the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
will retire from active faculty status on August 31, 2001.
Professor Murtuza received his B.E. degree from Osmania University, India, in
1958, his M.S. degree from Oklahoma State University in 1963, and his Ph.D. degree
from Purdue University in 1967. From 1967-70, he was a member of the research staff at
the Engineering Research Center, Western Electric Company. He joined the University of
Michigan-Dearborn faculty as an assistant professor in 1971 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1974 and professor in 1996. Professor Murtuza served as acting
chair of the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering from 1981-83 and in
winter 2000. He also served as associate director of the Manufacturing Systems
Engineering Program from 1990-94.
Professor Murtuza was instrumental in establishing the control systems program in
the College of Engineering and Computer Science and has taught the entire sequence of
graduate and undergraduate courses in the program. He introduced the use of computers in
control systems education long before it became a common practice. Professor Murtuza
has been a long-time consultant to local businesses, including Ford Motor Company,
Chrysler Corporation (now DaimlerChrysler), and Sensor Data Technologies. In 1995, he
and two co-authors received the Best Paper Award at the American Control Conference
for their presentation, "DC Servo-Academic and Real." Professor Murtuza holds three
patents in the areas of automotive low-speed-collision mitigation and rotational machine
balancing.
Professor Murtuza served on numerous campus committees and was active in
professional organizations. Nationally, he served on committees associated with
American Control Conference, IEEE Industrial Electronics Society, and the Society of
Manufacturing Engineers.
The Regents salute this dedicated scholar by naming Syed Murtuza professor
emeritus of electrical and computer engineering.
Harold A. Oberman, M.D., professor of pathology, retired from active faculty
status on June 30, 2001, after a long, productive career at the University of Michigan.
Dr. Oberman received his A.B. degree from the University of Omaha in 1953 and
his M.D. degree from the University of Nebraska College of Medicine in 1956. He
served his internship and residency at the University of Michigan from 1956-61. He


17




July Meeting, 2001


joined the faculty as an assistant professor of pathology in 1963 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1966 and professor in 1969. He served as co-director of the
Clinical Pathology Laboratories from 1979-81 and director from 1981-91. In addition to
obtaining board certification in anatomic and clinical pathology (1961), Dr. Oberman is
also board certified in blood banking (1973) and has served as director of the Blood
Bank/Transfusion Service in the Department of Pathology since 1964.
Nationally and internationally known for his contributions in the area of blood
banking, Dr. Oberman is also recognized for his excellence in the area of breast
pathology. He was an organizing member of the University of Michigan Breast Care
Center and was a member of the Breast Cancer Task Force and Advisory Committee for
the Michigan Department of Public Health. Dr. Oberman has received a number of
awards for his work in blood banking and breast pathology. In recognition of his
outstanding teaching skills, he received the Elizabeth Crosby Award (1966) and the
sophomore medical student class Excellence in Teaching Award (1988). Dr. Oberman
serves as a reviewer for several journals including Transfusion, the American Journal
of Surgical Pathology, Modern Pathology, and Blood. He has served as president of the
Michigan Association of Blood Banks and of the Michigan Society of Pathologists and is
active in numerous other organizations, including the International Society of Blood
Transfusion, the American Association of Pathologists, and the Academy of Clinical
Laboratory Physicians and Scientists. He has authored 140 journal articles and 20 book
chapters and continues to be in demand as an invited speaker at national and international
meetings.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service
by naming Harold A. Oberman professor emeritus of pathology.
James W. Richards, professor of social and administrative sciences in the College
of Pharmacy, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2001.
Professor Richards received his B.S. degree in 1955 and his M.B.A. degree in
1957, both from the University of Michigan. From 1956-62, he was a pharmacist and
then part-owner of the State Drug Company in Ann Arbor. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as a lecturer in pharmacy administration in 1958 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1962, associate professor in 1965, and professor in 1973. He
served as assistant dean from 1970-75 and associate dean from 1975-95. Following a
six-month period as interim dean in 1996, he served as dean from 1996-98 and again as
associate dean from 1999-2000.
Professor Richards was a pioneer in the study of retail pricing of pharmaceuticals.
His other research and scholarly interests include organizational, management, legal, and
economic issues related to pharmacy practice and third-party payment and managed care
programs and their impact on access, quality, and costs in the delivery of pharmaceutical
care.  He was a chapter author for six editions of the prestigious Remington's
Pharmaceutical Sciences and has published articles in leading professional journals. He
is a member of the pharmacy honor society, Rho Chi, and has received three "Pharmacist
of the Year" awards.
Professor Richards' combined pharmacy and business education and background
made him a unique asset ID the college's teaching programs. He has had a tremendous
impact on the college's professional students and programs throughout his career and is
known as a champion for students, demonstrating his care and compassion for them as
individuals.  During his tenure, he developed an equitable evaluation system for


18




July Meeting, 2001


determining academic discipline, which is only one example of his steadfast commitment
to fairness. His dedication to the College of Pharmacy is widely recognized.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming James W.
Richards professor emeritus of social and administrative sciences.
Norman W. Thompson, M.D., professor of surgery and the Henry Ransom King
Endowed Professor of Surgery in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status
on June 30, 2001.
Dr. Thompson received his B.A. degree from Hope College in 1953 and his M.D.
degree from the University of Michigan Medical School in 1957. After serving his
internship and residency at the University of Michigan, he joined the faculty as an
instructor in 1962. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1964, associate professor
in 1966, and professor in 1971 and was appointed the first Henry Ransom King Endowed
Professor of Surgery in 1979. He served as chief of the endocrine service in the
Department of Surgery from 1979-2001.
Dr. Thompson has been an active member of numerous University committees and
professional organizations. He is a founding member and was president of both the
American and the International Associations of Endocrine Surgeons and received the
meritorious achievement award of the AAES. He served as governor and chair of the
International Relations Committee of the American College of Surgeons and has been
president of the Michigan chapter of the American College of Surgeons, the Frederick A.
Coller Surgical Society, and the Western Surgical Association. He served on the
editorial board or as a reviewer for numerous prestigious journals and has been an
invited lecturer or visiting professor on 468 occasions. Dr. Thompson was author or
co-author of 271 publications and 94 book chapters and edited or co-edited 3 books and
14 surgical films.
An internationally recognized endocrine surgeon, Dr. Thompson is an honorary
member of surgical societies in the Netherlands, United Kingdom, France, Sweden,
Turkey, Australia, Colombia, and Mexico. He was included in the listing of the "Best
Doctors in America" from 1984-99. Under his guidance, dozens of general surgery
residents and fellows have developed into leading general and endocrine surgeons.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Norman W.
Thompson professor emeritus of surgery and the Henry Ransom King Endowed Professor
Emeritus of Surgery.
Robert A. Weisbuch, Ph.D., professor of English language and literature in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on June 8, 2001.
Professor Weisbuch received his B.A. degree from Wesleyan University in 1968 and
his Ph.D. degree from Yale University in 1972. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an assistant professor in 1972 and was promoted to associate professor in 1976
and professor in 1986. He served as chair of the Department of English Language and
Literature from 1987-94. He was appointed associate vice president for research and
associate dean for faculty programs at the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies in
1994 and in 1995-96 served as interim dean and then senior advisor to the dean (Summer
1996) of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.
Professor Weisbuch is recognized as a leading critic of 19th Century American
literature. His study, Emily Dickinson's Poetry (1975), instantly recognized as a classic
in the field, was instrumental in sparking a revival of serious interest in this vital poet,
and it continues to be read and admired today. Another volume, Atlantic Double-Cross:


19




July Meeting, 2001


American Literature and British Influence in the Age of Emerson (1986) was likewise
path-breaking in bringing a transatlantic framework to bear on the study of American
letters. More recently, he has collected and co-edited a volume of essays on the subject
of Dickinson and Audience (1996), in addition to authoring a number of articles on
figures such as Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry James.
A charismatic teacher, Professor Weisbuch communicates an infectious, irresistible
enthusiasm in the classroom Equally at home in the large lecture hall or the small
seminar setting, he has been one of the most popular instructors in the English department
over the past 25 years. He has received many awards for excellence in teaching,
including the Class of '23 Award (1975), the Amoco Award (1985), and an Arthur F.
Thurnau Professorship (1993-96).
As chair of the English department during a pivotal period in its history, he led the
effort to rethink the curriculum and to target new and emerging fields for faculty
recruitment. More generally, he helped to spearhead reforms aimed at the undergraduate
curriculum and undergraduate life in LS&A as a whole. As interim dean at the Rackham
graduate school, he played a central role in improving mentoring structures for graduate
student instructors and in overhauling the administrative structure of the graduate school
itself. He is now engaged in national leadership as president of the Woodrow Wilson
Foundation, where his programs on behalf of the humanities have, in particular, garnered
national attention.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Robert A. Weisbuch
professor emeritus of English language and literature.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members werere reported this month.
Degrees. President Bollinger submitted for approval the August 2001 Doctoral
Degree List, the final degree lists for the May and June 2001 commencements, and
changes to previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda   On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
State Auditor General Report and Response - Selected State Universities'
Reporting of Enrollment and Other Higher Educational Institutional Data Inventory
(HEIDI) Data - For Fiscal Year 1999-2000
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously accepted the report of and the response to the State Auditor General Report -
Selected State Universities' Reporting of Enrollment and Other Higher Educational
Institutional Data Inventory (HEIDI) data.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper to Finance University's Projects
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
authorized an increase of up to $16.6 million, to $120.8 million, in the amount outstanding
of the tax exempt commercial paper supported by a pledge of General Revenues for
financing of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building Renovation
Project.


20




July Meeting, 2001


Catherine Street Parking Structure
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved the Catherine Street Parking Structure Horizontal Expansion Project and
authorized commissioning Walker Parking Consultants for its design.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that the University and the City of Ann
Arbor have successfully completed the Forest Avenue Parking Structure that had been
previously approved by the Regents.
University of Michigan-Dearborn, University Mall Renovation
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents authorized
issuing the University of Michigan-Dearborn University Mall Renovation Project for bids
and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Perry Printing Site Acquisition
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved acceptance of a gift from the C.S. Mott Foundation to purchase the Perry Printing
Site and two contiguous vacant lots in Flint, Michigan, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Purchasing Contract with Michigan Aerospace Corporation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract for purchase of a modular concrete building
with a control system from the Michigan Aerospace Corporation. Because Lennard A. Fisk
and Paul Hays are both University of Michigan employees and principal owners of the
Michigan Aerospace Corporation, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences Department in the College of Engineering
and Michigan Aerospace Corporation.
2.   The product provided is a modular concrete building with a control system at a price
of $110,067.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Lennard A. Fisk and Paul Hays,
University of Michigan employees, are principal owners of Michigan Aerospace
Corporation.
Purchasing Contract with Monoky & Associates
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a contract for the purchase of textbooks from Monoky & Associates. Because
John F. Monoky is a University employee and is also principal consultant of Monoky &
Associates, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Business
School's Executive Education Center and Monoky & Associates.
2.   The product provided is textbooks, purchased during the time period beginning July 1,
2001 and ending June 30, 2002, at a total cost not to exceed $15,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that John F. Monoky, University of
Michigan employee, is principal consultant of Monoky & Associates.


21




July Meetilng, 2001


Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Commission
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and the
Great Lakes Commission, to support collaborative activities at the Great Lakes
Commission by Michael Donahue and Steve Thorpe. Because Michael Donahue is the
president and chief executive officer of the Great Lakes Commission and is also an adjunct
assistant professor at the University of Mchigan, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Commission.
2.   Agreement terms: The Department of Commerce-NOAA award is for $102,344 with
matching funds of $55,874 through September 30, 2000, and anticipates a second
year of funding in the amount of $103,285. The subcontract to the Great Lakes
Commission is in the amount of $20,000 per year. The terms of the proposed
subcontract agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
3.   Michael Donahue has no pecuniary interest in the agreement.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical
Care Consultants, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan
Critical Care Consultants for funding of a research project for which Professor Robert
Bartlett is principal investigator. Because Professor Bartlett is also a part owner of
Michigan Critical Care Consultants Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical Care
Consultants, Inc.
2.   Terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. The period
of performance for the project is two years at a total cost of $70,000.
3.   Professor Bartlett's pecuniary interest arises from his part ownership of Michigan
Critical Care Consultants.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Ohio University
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and
Ohio University involving collaboration with Dr. Gholam-Abbas Nazri at Ohio University.
Because Dr. Nazri is also an adjunct professor at the University of Michigan, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Ohio University.
2.   Terms of the agreement: Under the project a total subcontract of approximately
$92,000 is anticipated to cover the period May 1, 2001 through April 20, 2002. The
University' s standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Nazri has no pecuniary interest in the agreement.


22




July Meeting, 2001


Subcontract Agreement between the University      of Michigan  and Powerix
Technologies LLC
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and Powerix
Technologies LLC pursuant to a project for which Professors Werner Dahm and Jun Ni are
principal investigator and co-principal investigator, respectively. Because Werner Dahm
and Jun Ni are also co-owners and board members of Powerix Technologies LLC, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Powerix Technologies
LLC.
2.   Agreement terms: Under the project a subcontract of approximately $692,209 is
anticipated to cover the period June 1, 2001 through May 30, 2004. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Professor Dahm's and Professor Ni's pecuniary interest arises from their status as
co-owners and board members of Powerix Technologies LLC..
Michigan Student Assembly Financial Report
The Regents received the annual financial report of the Michigan Student Assembly
for December 31, 2000 and December 31, 1999.
Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) Annual Business Plan
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimnusly
approved the Michigan Health Corporation FY2002 Annual Business Plan and budget.
Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) Bylaws
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved an amendment to the MHC Bylaws to provide that a director may select a
designee to serve on the board of directors of the MHC in his or her position.
Authorization for a Center and Five Programs in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts to become Tenure Homes
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the following units to have the ability to appoint tenured faculty and
serve as tenure homes: Center for Afroamerican and African Studies; Program in American
Culture; Program in Comparative Literature; Program in Film and Video Studies; Program
on Organizational Studies; and Women's Studies Program.
Media Studies. Regent Newman inquired whether consideration was being given
to reconstituting the Journalism Department. President Bollinger responded that this
discipline is being considered in the context of a review of the whole area of
communication studies and the information revolution. He commented that this is a
complicated issue, although he believes that it is unthinkable that a great research
university would not have a significant focus on media in the broadest sense. How this
will be done has not yet been decided, but he stated that he is very positive and
enthusiastic about the general concept of expanding the area of media studies.


23




July Meeting, 2001


Doctor of Physical Therapy Degree (DPT) at the University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved establishment of the Doctor of Physical Therapy Degree Program in the School of
Health Professions and Studies at the University of Michigan-Flint, replacing the existing
Master of Physical Therapy (MPT) degree following a transition period.
2001-2002 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents approved the
2001-2002 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets on a vote of 7 to 1, with Regent
Newman opposed.
Proposed Ann Arbor FY 2001-02 General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
approved the proposed Ann Arbor FY 2002 General Fund Operating Budget on a vote of
7 to 1, with Regent Newman opposed.
Proposed Ann Arbor FY 2001-02 Student Tuition and Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents approved
the proposed Ann Arbor FY 2001-02 student tuition and fee rates as described in the
Regents Communication on a vote of 7 to 1, with Regent Newman opposed.
Proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2001-02 General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents approved the
proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2001-02 General Fund Operating Budget on a vote of 7 to
1, with Regent Newman opposed.
Proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2001-02 Student Tuition and Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents approved
the proposed Dearborn Campus student tuition and fee rates as described in the Regents
Communication on a vote of 7 to 1, with Regent Newman opposed.
Proposed Flint Campus FY 2001-02 General Fund Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents approved the
proposed Flint Campus FY 2001-02 General Fund Operating Budget on a vote of 7 to 1,
with Regent Newman opposed.
Proposed Flint Campus FY 2001-02 Student Tuition and Fee Rates
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents approved
the proposed Flint Campus FY 2001-02 Student Tuition and fee rates as described in the
Regents Communication on a vote of 7 to 1, with Regent Newman opposed.
2001-2002 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Student Legal
Services (SLS), and School/College Governments
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the 2001-2002 fee assessments of $5.69 per student per term for
MSA, $5.50 per student per term for Student Legal Services, and $1.50 per student per term


24




July Meeting, 2001


for school and college governments. These fees represent no changes from the rates
charged in 2000-2001.
2001-02 University Health Service Fee
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a 6.0% increase ($6.70) per student per term for the University
Health Service fee.
Proposed FY 2002 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Operating
Budget
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved the proposed FY 2002 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Operating Budget, as described in the Regents Communication.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 10:45 a.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for September 20-21, 2001.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretay of the University


25




July Meeting, 2001


26




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 20, 2001
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, McGowan, and Taylor. Also present
were Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas,
Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Interim Provost and Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent White joined the meeting by phone at about 2:35 p.m.; Regents Maynard and
Newman were absent.
Regents Resolution in Honor of Solar Car Team
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and introduced Stephen Director, dean
of the College of Engineering. Dean Director praised the accomplishments of the
University of Michigan's solar car team and noted that the University of Michigan had
finished first in three of the six times the race has been run. He introduced the team's
faculty advisors, Professors Brian Gilchrest and Ken Coors, who discussed the benefits
derived by the more than 150 students who have participated in this competition and who
represent a wide variety of majors and interests. Team members were called to the
podium, and Nader Shwayhat, the team leader, thanked the University community and the
greater Ann Arbor community for the tremendous support they had given. He introduced all
of the team members present, after which Regent Homing read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolhtion
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate
Michigan's 2001 solar car team   on its impressive victory in the
2,300-mile  American    Solar  Challenge.     The   IS0-member
interdisciplinary team worked intensively for two years to design and
build M-Pulse, devoting an average of 200 person-hours per week
during the school year and even more during vacations.
Fueled by teamwork, attentiveness to detail, and enthusiastic
comnmunity and sponsor support, as well as by the sun, M-Pulse
successfullh scaled mountains, plains, and desert along old Route 66
from Chicago to Los Angeles. M-Pulse completed the arduous trek in
56 hours, 10 minutes, and 46 seconds - some 80 minutes fister than the
closest competitor. Rallying after a pothole-related accident nearly
destroyed M-Pulse less than a month before the final race, team
members worked around the clock to rebuild the car, finishing just in
time to qualify. They also learned from the mishap. To avert a second
major accident, M-Pulse's advance team painted white circles around
potholes along the route during the actual race. Also contributing to
M-Pulse's victory was a sophisticated weather-tracking system that
team members used to map their racing strategy.


27




September Meeting, 2001


The Regents commend the entire M-Pulse team, its advisors, and
sponsors. As the team prepares for the World Solar Challenge across
the Australian Outback in November, we ofjfr this cheer: "Hail to the
colors that float in the light; Hurrah Jbr the Yellow and Blue!"
A round of applause followed.
President's Remarks
President Bollinger commented that the horrific events of September 11 had had a
profound impact on the campus. He noted that a wide variety of gatherings and events had
been held around the campus, including a candlelight vigil on the Diag attended by 15,000
people, symposia, teach-ins, and a musical event at Hill Auditorium. The Trauma Burn
Center had shipped a supply of a temporary skin substitute to Washington to treat bum
victims. He and Jean Magnano Bollinger had hosted students at an open house at the
President's House. Additional events will be held that will make use of the expertise
available at the University on a wide range of issues related to the tragedy.
University of Michigan Hospitals Biomedical Science Research Building
President Bollinger noted that the Biomedical Science Research Building (BSRB) is
an extremely important project for the University and represented a key aspect of the
University's Life Sciences Initiative. He noted that the BSRB will be a crucial part of Ann
Arbor's cityscape and of the University's campus and will replace out-of-date research
facilities on the medical campus.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that the matter before the board --
approval of the schematic design for the BSRB -- represents the second step of a
three-step process for approval of building projects. Given the size of this project, a
concurrent separate request is being made for approval to bid the excavation and utility
relocation that will be required before construction can begin.
Executive Vice President Omenn reiterated that the BSRB would provide
replacement space for the outdated Kresge Medical Research Buildings and incremental
space for the Medical School's involvement in the Life Sciences Initiative. The BSRB's
location is designed to stimulate collaboration among faculty in the Medical School and
other schools and colleges. He observed that both the overall architectural design and
functionality of the proposed new building are spectacular. He pointed out that the
building had been designed around scientific investigatory areas, as opposed to classical
academic departments.
Dean Lichter commented that a multitude of Medical School faculty members had
been involved in the planning of this building and that research space would be allocated
thematically and programmatically. The scientific areas of research to be incorporated
are neuroscience, organogenesis, cancer, and the cardiovascular system.
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced Mr. Todd Schliemann of Polshek
Partnership Architects, who gave a detailed presentation describing the building's
architectural plan and schematic design. Mr. Schliemann displayed a map illustrating the
location of the proposed building and noted that it will be a transitional, highly visible
building situated between the main campus and the Medical School. A pedestrian


28




September Meeting, 2001


movement system is being planned to connect the Life Sciences Institute (LSI) with the
BSRB.
Mr. Schliemann displayed a typical floor plan for the building, which will include
research labs and offices for principal investigators that will be separated by an atrium
spanning the full height of the building. The ground floor of the atrium will include a
300-seat theatre, a small conference area, and a cafe, and there will be two elevator
banks. He noted that the exterior building materials will combine elements, such as red
brick and beige brick, seen in both the main campus and Medical School, and will
include a double glass wall made of two clear glass panels.
Mr. Schliemann displayed drawings of various views of the building and concluded
by showing a computer-generated video depicting three-dimensional views of the
exterior and interior of the building from a number of different perspectives. He also
pointed out that sustainable design is an important factor in the design of this building and
noted that the double glass wall would create a kind of thermal blanket around it.
Regent McGowan commented that the building design is spectacular and asked
about the status of the pedestrian bridge across Washtenaw Avenue connecting the Life
Sciences Institute with the BSRB. Executive Vice President Kasdin stated that the
engineers and architects are working to create the lightest, most efficient, and most
esthetically pleasing design for this overpass before bringing the project to the Regents
for approval.
Regent Deitch commented on the beautiful design and asked how heat build-up
within the building caused by the glass walls would be prevented. Mr. Schliemann
explained that heat build-up will not occur and noted that a significant amount of energy
will be saved by using this type of facade.
President Bollinger observed that this building will have very prominent placement
for both the city and the campus, and for this reason great attention has been paid to the
esthetics of the building. Regarding the notion of the interior office space being visible
from the glass facade, it was noted that the double glass wall would obscure the interior
and that from a distance the glass would be hazy. In addition, each office will have
window shades for privacy. Mr. Schliemann also pointed out that the sculptural element
of the auditorium would help lend scale to the building. He noted that the plans also
include an underground vivarium (animal facility).
Regent Deitch moved approval of the design of the Biomedical Science Research
Building as presented. Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
University of Michigan Medical School Biomedical Science Research Building Utility
Relocation and Excavation Package
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Biomedical Science Research Building Utility Relocation and
Excavation Project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the
project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
Regent White joined the meeting at this point (2:35 p.m.) via telephone.


29




September Meeting, 2001


Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the July
19-20, 2001 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Investment, Plant
Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action. He reported that two members
of the University's Investment Advisory Committee, David Alger and Josh Rosenthal, had
been killed in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center on September 11.
Regarding the investment portfolio, he noted that times of economic uncertainty
highlight the importance of the endowment spending rule, under which approximately 5%
of the asset value of the portfolio is spent in support of operations, calculated under a
12-quarter lag. Thus, the effects of both large gains and large losses, as well as the
impact of recent events, are tempered and averaged over time. He also commented about
the importance of the diversified allocation strategy into assets whose values do not all
rise or fall at the same time.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that in 1997, the last time the market was
at the current level, the University had $667 million worth of debt, compared to $666
million currently. Then, the endowment totaled $1.7 billion, as opposed to about $3.7
billion currently. This illustrates that the University is in a far stronger financial position
now than it was during the last market low point.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research  Report,  Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for July 1 - August 31, 2001.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn reported
that the health system is extremely busy and is working very hard to accommodate the
needs of patients and families.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper reported that welcome week
activities had been very successful, with record numbers of students participating in the
numerous activities that were offered. In the wake of the national disaster of September
11, she commented that extensive counseling support and printed material had been made
available. She noted that numerous gatherings and memorial ceremonies had been held in
a wide variety of venues and many activities had taken place within the residence halls,
and she reported that the climate within the residence halls has been somber.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little described what the reaction
to the tragedy had been on the Dearborn campus. Because the city of Dearborn is home to
a large Middle Eastern population, a major concern was preserving a supportive climate
on campus. He noted that no incidents of harassment, violence, or friction had been
reported.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas called attention to a photograph
of the William S. White Building on the cover of a national contractors' publication. He
reported that the campus had experienced deep feelings of sadness and some amount of
anger following the World Trade Center disaster, but observed that the object of the anger is
so elusive that there is a danger of its being misdirected. He noted that there is a large


30




September Meeting, 2001


Muslim and Arabic community on the Flint campus and that the campus has taken significant
steps to create a climate of support and community. He commented that a candlelight vigil
sponsored by the student government and Muslim student association had drawn the largest
crowd he had seen since coming to the Flint campus.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin reported on the 2000-01 fiscal year and
noted that total gifts had exceeded $200 million. There was an increase in outright gifts
from individuals to over $105 million, compared with a total of $98 million for the
previous year, which is very encouraging. She observed that Michigan development
officers are stationed in major cities around the country and that, despite current events,
people are still willing to discuss giving gifts to Michigan. Regarding the upcoming
campaign, she stated that the timetable is flexible and no goal has been set.
Vice President Feagin also submitted Reports of Voluntary Support for June 30,
2001, July 31, 2001, and August 31, 2001.
Accenture LLP, Detroit
for employee  matching  gifts................................................... $  45,220
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 100,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 206,485
American Digestive Health Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 55,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 27,781
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 306,083
American Institute for Voice and Ear Research, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 15,000
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  10,000
Anonymous Donor
for support of the University of Michigan.....................................  12,900,000
Helen M. Arens Trust
for the Helen M. Arens Scholarship in the College of Engineering.................... 200,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 37,667
AT&T Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 25,000
Automotive Systems Laboratory, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 70,000
Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy..........................................  10,000
Bertsch Family Trust
3,300 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Margaret Bertsch Fund in the Medical School.............................. 193,928
James L. Betchek, Berrien Springs
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  12,500
Harold and Penny Blumenstein Foundation, Bingham Farms
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment in the University Library...... 15,000
Bowl for Burns, Trenton
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 43,944
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 100,000
Cayman Chemical Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Chase Manhattan Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  27,575
Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
800 shares of CNA Surety Corporation common stock
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Music...................... 11,320


31




September Meeting, 2001


Walter H. Clark, Jr., Hancock, New Hampshire
2,000 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 103,520
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint..................................... 10,000
William J. Cowlin, Crystal Lake, Illinois
17,480 shares of First Midwest Bancorp common stock
for the William and Geraldine Cowlin Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  Law   School..............................................................  500,015
Crohn's and Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 22,725
CVS Corporation, Woonsocket, Rhode Island
for the CVS Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy............................ 10,000
Daimler Chrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 30,000
Loren S. Daniels, Bloomfield Hills
for the Loren Daniels Dental Student Scholarship in the Dental School................. 10,000
DCES Educational Services, Canton
for support in the College of Engineering................                 44,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and the School of Public Health.................... 18,530
Deloitte and Touche Consulting Group, Hermitage, Tennessee
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for support in  the Dental School.................................................  68,015
Harry W. Denham Jr., Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Medical School,
the Museum of Art, and the School of Art and Design................................ 56,525
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering and the University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 10,250
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  11,405
Detroit U-M Club Scholarship Fund, Farmington
for the University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship.......................... 25,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and
Environment and the College of Engineering and
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................  522,300
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 124,161
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Epker-Percival Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the B. Joseph and Mary White UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 50,000
Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb, Bloomfield Hills
41,094 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment................... 1,122,584
Erb Foundation, Bloomfield
7,598 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment.................... 284,477
Exxon Mobil Foundation, Houston, Texas
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  60,675
Ruth Fine Estate
for the Morris and Ida Fine Scholarship in the School of Information................. 200,000
Sonja and Conrad Fischer Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 164,234
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the Law   School..................................................  50,902
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the School of Business Administration, the College of Engineering,
and the Transportation Research Institute and
for the University of M ichigan-Dearborn......................................... 300,000


32




September VMeetinrg, 201D~


Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Medical School and the Schools of Business Administration, Music, and
Naturaf Resources and Environment,
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
for the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for the Center for the Education of Women,
for the Museum of Art,
for the Institute for Research on Women and Gender,
for the Nichols Arboretum,
for the Arts of Citizenship Program, and
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................... 2,085,000
Four Friends Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Robert K. Shaye Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 155,000
Floyd J. Fowler, Jr., Brookline, Massachusetts
for the Charles Cannell Fund in Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research.. 10,000
Samuel and Jean Frankel of the United Jewish Foundation of Metro Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 18,750
Stanley and Judith Frankel Fund Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for WUOM................................................................... 38,000
GE Fund, Fairfield, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts................................................... 102,783
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 36,340
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Jessye Norman Graduate Fellowship in Voice in the School of Music............ 62,040
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 24,946
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Eugene and Emily Grant Scholarship in the School of Music,
the Department of Kinesiology, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology.100,000
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Frederick W. and Lois B. Gehring Professorship, the Jean and Samuel Frankel
Professorship in Rabbinic Literature an other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......................................................... 500,000
Hasbro Children's Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Social Work.......................................... 36,047
Hella KG, Hueck and Company, Lippstadt, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 40,000
Sidney M. Hiller, Franklin
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Harriet Hiller...................... 25,000
Hiller Associates, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Harriet Hiller...................... 50,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for support in Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................... 79,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 38,500
International Truck and Engine Corporation, Melrose Park, Illinois
for support in the Transportation Research Institute................................. 15,000
Laura L. Jamieson, Toledo, Ohio
for the Jamieson Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................... 20,000
Hugh C. Johnson Estate
for the Hugh C. Johnson Library Endowment in the Law School...................... 440,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and the Schools of Nursing and Public Health and
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................ 1,180,037
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for WUOM................................................................. 100,000
John P. Junge, Rancho Santa Fe, California
500 shares of Actrade Financial Technologies, LTD, common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 20,663
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 1 3,631


33




3eptember Meeting, 2001


John Harvey Kellogg Estate
for the John H. Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School........................ 10,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the Schools of Education, Information and Public Health and
for employee  matching  gifts.................................................. 1,885,106
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the  University  Hospitals..................................................... 57,593
Lisa Knight-Giuliani, Matawan, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  50,000
Paul Land, Holland
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.............................. 100,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the Medical School................................................  10,000
Mrs. Philip T. Lincoln, Jackson
for the Philip T. Lincoln and Philip T. Lincoln, Jr. Memorial Fund in the School of Music. 21,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entreprenual Studies in
the School of Business Administration and
for the Olivia Maynard Endowed Fund in the School of Social Work................ 1,100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social W ork......................................... 29,000
Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Schools of Nursing and Public Health............................. 96,030
Managed Resources Inc., Long Beach, California
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 63,831
Mass Mutual Life Insurance Company, Springfield, Massachusetts
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Roger L. McCarthy, Menlo Park, California
30,000 shares of Exponent Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  342,750
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Bentley Historical Library, the Institute for Social Research,
the University Library, and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies....... 2,020,000
David J. Metzger, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the David J. and Carole N. Metzger Scholarship in the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning....................................... 20,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for W FUM -TV.............................................................  1,025,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 30,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 39,999
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School...............................................  17,500
National Parkinson Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
NEC USA, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering.........................................37,986
Robert E. Nederlander, New York, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  10,000
New England Foundation for the Arts, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  10,450
Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project....................................... 10,000
Edward C. Olson, Fort Myers, Florida
5,000 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Edward and Joan Olson Charitable Gift Annuity #2 for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................  152,150
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for support in the College of Pharmacy...........................................  10,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for geological sciences research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 62,500


34




Helen I. Panchuk Trust
for piano restoration support in the Martha Cook Residence Hall and
for the University Musical Society..                                       20,250
Erika 0. Parker, Evanston, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration..                     10,000
Ralph R. Peachman Estate
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 100,000
Frederick J. Peterson Estate
for support in the Medical School................................................ 55,000
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy...................... 10,500
Maxine Pierpont, Ann Arbor
for the B. Joseph and Mary White UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in
the School of Business Administration and
for the Harlan and Anne Hatcher Library Fund in the University Library, in memory of
Anne Vance Hatcher........................................................... 25,500
Polo Fields Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School................................................ 20,000
Prentice Foundation, Inc., Westport, Connecticut
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment..................... 18,000
Irene Pritula, Ann Arbor
for the Irene Pritula Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering...................................................... 10,000
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 103,500
Procter and Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Public Health and
the Colleges of Enjineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for the Michigan Leadershape Institute,
for the Procter and Gamble President' s Fund, and
for the Career Planning and Placement Office..................................... 108,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
for the John A. Pursley Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering...................................................... 10,000
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 70,000
Roche Laboratories, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 12,700
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School............................................... 20,000
Schreiber Corporation, Detroit
for the Class of 1948 Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering............ 10,000
Peter A. Schweitzer, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Schweitzer Endowment in the Colleye of Literature, Science and Arts and
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,500
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Women's Gymnastics Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics........ 100,000
Shiffman Foundation Trust
for the University Musical Society............................................... 10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 100,000
Solutia Inc., Saint Louis, Missouri
for support in the Transportation Research Institute................................. 10,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education and the Institute for Research on
Women and Gender........................................................... 930,200
Robert Stiber, Vail, Colorado
for the Samu el Stiber Endowed Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 25,022
Stimsonite Corporation, Niles, Illinois
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
G. Woodward Stover II, East Lansing
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 50,000
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 21,380
Marian V.W. Swortzel Charitable Lead Trust
for the Marian Vaughn Williams Swortzel Scholarship.............................. 100,000


35




September VMeetinrg, 201D~


UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for the OSAT Affiliates Proaram in the Transportation Research Institute............... 15,000
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 23,000
Hilda Walter Trust
for support in the School of Nursing.............................................. 20,000
Gary T. Walther, Winnetka, Illinois
500 shares of Banc West Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Harriett and John Walther Scholarship and other support in
the School of Business Adm inis tration............................................ 18,710
Webb Foundation, La Jolla, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Jason G. Weiss, Pacific Palisades, California
for the Jason and Donna Weiss Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................... 159000
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 12,855
Westinghouse Electric Corp., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering v.                               140,000
Windway Foundation, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for the Foley and Lardner Fund in the Law School................................... 10,000
Margaret Winegarden Trust
for the Myron and Margaret Winecarden Endowed Visiting Professorship at
the University of Michigan-Flint................................................ 571,529
Hugh M. Wright, Battle Creek
200 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock
for the Hugh M. Wright Golf Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............... 23,550
Zell Famil Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies in
the School of Business Administration......................................... 1,000,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 101,159
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School............................................... 20,000
American Israel Education Fund, Troy
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 234,605
Bank One Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the Law School and
for the Nichols Arboretum...................................................... 15,000
Ruth M. Barnard, Ann Arbor
for the Ruth Barnard Scholarly Exchange Fund in the School of Nursing................ 10,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning........ 10,000
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Illinois, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Public Health......................................... 10,000
Boeing Charitable Trust, Seattle, Washington
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 14,500
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................... 10,000
Leo Brickman Estate
for the Philip Brickman Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts 10,000
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 60,000
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for geological scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 19,825
Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, Saint Louis, Missouri
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration.......................... 118,506
Alice Crawford Trust
800 shares of Johnson and Johnson common stock
for support in the School of Art and Design, the Museum of Art, the Exhibit Museum,
the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, and
the University Musical Society and
for the Nichols Arboretum...................................................... 42,528
Patrick and Anna Cudahy Fund, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Robert E. and Carolyn B. Dineen Scholarship in the Law School,
in memory of Carolyn B. Dineen................................................. 1 0,000
Daimler Chrysler Corporation, Highland Park
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.... 350,000


36




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Daimler Chrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for the School of Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  81,530
Davis Family Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................  10,000
Eugenia Delahunte Trust
for the Eugenia Delahunte Scholarship in the School of Music........................ 34,985
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for scholarships in the School of Dentistry........................................ 50,000
Dixon and Carol Doll Family Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 25,000
Ruth E. Dowe Trust
for the Alumni Association.....................................................  58,000
E.I. DuPont DeNemors and Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support in the Dental School and the College of Engineering...................... 32,500
EDS, Plano, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Frederick A. Erb, Bloomfield Hills
1,272 shares of Alcoa Inc., common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment in the Schools of
Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment..................... 51,421
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering and
for the University  of M ichigan-  earborn.......................................... 80,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Medical School,
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane at the University of Michigan- Dearborn, and
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................  278,689
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 103,942
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School............................................... 60,000
Agnes Gleysteen Fraser Estate
for the Dirk Vanderlinden Gleysteen Scholarship in the Medical School............... 429,827
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  25,000
Dale B. Friend Trust
for the University Library.......................................................  12,895
Kurt C. and Sally S. Frisch Family Foundation, Grosse Ile
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Dr. Kurt C. Frisch................... 10,000
Genvec, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 50,000
Gillette Company, Boston, Massachusetts
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,000
Gilmour Fund, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administratio n............................ 10,000
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr. Trust
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School................................ 10,000
Julia Goodman Estate
17,232 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Betty Pease Dance Scholarship in the School of Music....................... 325,072
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Donald C. Graham Endowment in the College of Engineering and
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...................................  355,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Institute for Research on Women and Gender............................... 256,174
Don M. Harlan Estate
for support in the School of Education........................................... 176,785
Verl J. Hawks Trust
for support in the College of Engineering........................................ 200,000
Highfield Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Michigan Community Service Corps.......................................  10,000
Jean M. Holland, Birmingham
for the Frederick R. Holland, M.D., Scholarship in the Medical School................. 25,000
Hughes Network Systems, Germantown, Maryland
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 26,457


37




September Meeting, 2001


International Business Machines Corporation, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for biology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the A rts................. 28,915
Marjorie M. Jackson, North Chittenden, Vermont
450 shares of E.I. Du Pont de Nemours and Company common stock
for the  M useum   of Art........................................................  20,608
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy......................... 65,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 45,675
W.M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 155,611
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Information.......................................... 20,000
Key Bank, Ann Arbor
for support in the Exhibit Museum and the Museum of Art and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  13,000
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for the Museum of Art................................................... 25,000
Arnold M. Kuethe Trust
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and for WUOM....................... 56,667
Karin Larson, Pacific Palisades, California
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Herbert H. Lee Endowment Trust
for the Herbert H. Lee  Scholarship............................................... 41,909
Robert C. Leland, Jr., Harbor Springs
for the Leland Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................... 12,500
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 30,000
Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  31,650
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. Mac Arthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in the School of Education.........................................  303,000
Clara E. Mara Estate
for the Clara E. Mara Scholarship in the College of Engineering...................... 205,700
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 30,000
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................  35,000
Omenn-Darling Family Advised Fund- the Seattle Foundation Trust Fund, Seattle, Washington
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
for the University  M usical Society............................................... 42,500
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the University  of M ichigan-Flint.............................................. 10,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Burke E. Porter Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering,
for support in the School of Business Administration, and
for  W U O M...................................................................  10,625
Powerise Information Inc., City of Industry, California
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 80,000
Mrs. Jessie B. Quinn, Santa Barbara, California
5,209 shares of Chemical Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 141,502
Wendell A. Racette, North Muskegon
for the Dr. Wendell A. and Catherine Racette Charitable Gift Annuity
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Dentistry.................................. 30,000
Alma Ruppenthal, Troy
2,807 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School................. 61,339
Margery H. Ruth, Sun City, Arizona
2,663 shares of Pfizer Inc., common stock
for the J. Griswold and Margery H. Ruth Fund, the Ruth Research Fellowship, and
the Ruth Summer Research Award Fund in the Medical School....................... 101,700
Barry M. Sherman, Hillsborough, California
20,000 shares of Pain Therapeutics Inc., common stock
for the Stefan S. Fajans/SmithKline Beecham Professorship in the Medical School..... 149,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................... 35,000


38




September VMeetinrg, 201D~


Raymond C. Smith Foundation Endowment Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the America Reads Program.................................................. 57,000
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York, New York
for support in the Horace H. Rackhamn School of Graduate Studies..................... 12,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the College of Engineering and for the University of Michigan-Dearborn.. 57,000
Jeremiah G. Turcotte, Ann Arbor
19 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation and
1,600 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for the Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professorship in Transplantation in
the Medical School........................................................... 114,242
United States Surgical Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School............................ 50,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the College of Engineerini... 10,100
Laurie and Timothy Wadhaims Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Kellogg Eye Center............................................ 20,000
Cleveland Walcutt Estate
for the Lucille Groff Walcutt Professorship in the Medical School................. 1,000,000
Ward Lake Energy, Gaylord
for geological sciences research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. e   23,000
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for support in the University Musical Society...................................... 10,000
Peter and Deborah L. Weinberg Family Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the S. Martin Lindenauer Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School.......... 250,000
Michael P. Wellman, Ann Arbor
15,000 shares of Ariba Inc., common stock
for the Wellman Endowment in the College of Engineering.......................... 78,225
Wallace E. Wilson Estate, Ontario, New York
for support of the Universit  of M ichigan.........................................  109000
Wyeth-Ayerst Pharmaceuticals, Piladelphia, Pennsylvania
for the University Hospitals..................................................... 10,000
Irma M. Wyman, Saint Paul, Minnesota
4,732 shares of various cor orate common stock
for the Irma M. Wyman FTEE Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women... 250,466
Zukey Lake Tavern, Pinckney
for the University Hospitals..................................................... 21,000
AGC America, Inc., Ypsilanti
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 15,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 105,888
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School............................................... 50,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for support in the Division of Kinesiology, the Medical School, and
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 212,203
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the School of Public Health........................................ 12,500
Anonymous Donor
for support of the University of Michigan........................................ 130,206
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of
Martha Booher and Annie Shredd................................................ 20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................... 38,665
Thomas J. Beaver, Comstock Park
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 10,000
Alfred Berkowitz Foundation, Farmington Hills
for research in the Medical School............................................... 50,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 35,000
Lily Marie Carter, Midland, Texas
for the R. C. Hussey Memorial Fund for Needy Students in Geology in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......................... 124,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration........................... 14,100


39




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration. 11,400
Peter C. Cook, Grand Rapids
2,000 shares of Johnson & Johnson stock and
4,750 shares of Oracle Corporation common stock
for the Hooker, Cook and DeVos Endowment in the Gerald R. Ford School of
Public  Policy................................................................  187,546
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 10,000
Dance Marathon, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School, and for the University Hospitals.................... 62,622
Paquita Y. Davis-Friday, Notre Dame, Indiana
for the John Robert and Minnie Lee Bussey Scholarship and
other support in the School of Business Administration and the School of Education..... 10,150
M. Susan Delonis, Ann Arbor
4,800 shares of TCF Financial Corporation common stock
for the Delonis/Leichtman Fellowship in the Medical School, in memory of
R obert J. D elonis............................................................  241,200
Virginia Denham Trust
for support in the School of Art and Design, the Medical School,
the Museum of Art, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 25,094
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 40,000
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 200,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Trust
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music...... 74,032
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Wallenberg Medal and Lecturer' s Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies.....................................................  12,000
Maurine Elrlich, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Ann Shimmick..................... 10,000
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering and the Heinz C. Prechter Memorial Fund in
the Medical School, in memory of Heinz Prechter................................. 150,500
Excell Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Division of Kinesiology......................................... 20,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social W ork........................................ 350,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 30,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 10,000
Galen Medical Society, Ann Arbor
for support in the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital.................................... 65,000
General Cable Corporation, Highland Heights, Kentucky
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering..... 20,000
General Motors Corporation, Phoenix, Arizona
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 50,000
William M. Gibson, Ann Arbor
for the Helen B. Gibson and the James 0. Wilkes Scholarships in
the  Colle e  of Engineering...................................................... 14,800
Joseph I. Goldstein, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
Eugene M. Grant, Mamaroneck, New York
for the Eugene and Emily Grant Scholarship in the School of Natural Resources and
Environm   en t..................................................................  10,000
Wallace D. Grant, Ann Arbor
for the Mickey and Wally Grant Ice Hockey Scholarship and other support in
the  Departm ent of Athletics..................................................... 25,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in the School of Education........................................... 60,000
Michael and Mary Kay Hallman Fund of the Seattle Foundation, Seattle, Washington
for the B. Joseph and Mary White UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 25,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Social W ork......................................... 100,000
James R. Hayward, Naples, Florida
for the J. Chalmers Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry................... 75,000


40




William Randolph Hearst Foundation, New York, New York
for the William Randolph Hearst Scholarship in the Law School..................... 150,000
Highfield Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the University of Michigan- Flint............................................. 10,000
Ruth K. Hiltner, Ann Arbor
522 shares of AT&T Corporation common stock and
170 shares of AT&T Wireless Services Inc., common stock
for the Ruth Hiltner Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 13,833
Fred A. and Maiy W. Huber Trust
for support in the Medical School............................................... 300,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for support in the School of Dentistry........................................... 210,873
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 30,000
International Truck and Engine Corporation, Melrose Park, Illinois
for research in the College o Engineering......................................... 60,000
Hal B. Jennings, Jr., San Antonio, Texas
for the Hal B. and Flora G. Jennings Charitable Remainder Unitrust for
the ultimate benefit of the Medical School........................................ 10,000
Robert W. Johnson IV Charitable Trust
for the Heinz C. Prechter Memorial Fund in the Medical School, in memory of
Heinz Prechter................................................................ 25,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School, the Schools of Public Health and Social Work and
the Institute for Social Research.............................................. 1,005,867
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield, Connecticut
for the Thomas C. Jones Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 100,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 370,294
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 16,000
David B. Kaplan, Beverly Hills, California
for the David and Meredith Kaplan Competitive Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 10,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the Schools of Information and Social Work and
for WUOM................................................................. 243,000
Kelsey-Hayes Company, Livonia
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 11,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the University Hospitals..................................................... 14,398
Robert M. Klein Trust
for the Victor W. and Ruth A. Klein Scholarship and
for the Robert M. and Wallis C. Klein Darrow Merit Scholarship in the Law School...... 18,160
Esther Kleitman, Los Angeles, California
3,600 shares of Pfizer Inc., common stock
for the Esther Kleitman 2001 Charitable Remainder Unitrust for
the ultimate benefit of the University Library...................... 148,086
Ton Koot, Montfoot, Netherlands
for research in the Medical School............................................... 10,000
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts..................................................... 11,850
David A. Lauer, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Art and Design........................................ 10,000
Emil J. Lauretti Estate, Montague
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 36,343
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 120,000
Elizabeth D. Lee Estate
for the Kenneth E. Vance Scholarship in the School of Information................... 190,978
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and the Medical School.................... 19,563
Ruth Blight Lewis Trust
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens............................................... 25,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Mildred J. Lyman Trust
for the Candy R. Wei International Travel Endowment in the School of Art and Design.... 15,000


41




John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Information..........................................  12,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School...............................................  25,000
MBNA America Bank, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Martin Luther King and the Alumni Association Scholarship Funds.............. 26,844
J.P. McCarthy Foundation, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 22,500
Michigan Lupus Foundation, Saint Clair Shores
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research Fund in the Medical School............ 20,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research in the College of Engineering and the School of Information and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  28,837
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 15,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the M edical School................................................ 28,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Biophysics Research Division................................... 11,710
Nobel Biocare USA Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in  the  School of Dentistry............................................  28,200
Katherine 0 Connor, Bloomfield Hills
for the Turner Geriatrics Center................................................. 10,000
Richard D. O'Connor, Birmingham
for the Turner Geriatrics Center.................................................  10,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Pharmacy and the Medical School........................ 15,050
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 79,543
Procter and Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  54,617
Velma Puls Estate
for the Velma Puls Fund in the Medical School................................... 141,490
Research Corporation, New York, New York
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 55,000
Donald W. Reynolds Foundation, Las Vegas, Nevada
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 500,000
Mrs. Irving Rose, Farmington Hills
for the University Musical Society................................................. 10,000
Jack F. Ross, Temple Terrace, Florida
395 shares of McDonald's Corporation common stock
for support in  the  M edical School................................................ 11,534
San Francisco Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support of the  Law   School...................................................  10,000
SBC Foundation, San Antonio, Texas
for research in the School of Information........................................  229,000
Ewa E. Schaff-Blass, Pemberville, Ohio
for support in the Center for Russian and Eastern European Studies Endowment in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  10,000
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Endowment in the Medical School, in memory of
Janice E. Kubiak........................................................... 16,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for support in  the  School of M usic..............................................  155,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Sloan Research Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 20,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate  Studies.....................................................  70,000
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 15,000
Charles Stilec Irrevocable Life Insurance Trust
for the Charles E. and Barbara C. Stilec Scholarship Fund in the School of
Business Administration....................................................... 76,000
Texaco Inc., Bellaire, Texas
for MBA Fellowships in the School of Business Administration....................... 20,000
Robert M. Thompson, Plymouth
for the Robert and Ellen Thompson Research Fund in the Medical School............ 1,160,000


42




September Meeting, 2001


Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah
for research in the School of Public Health........................................ 23,276
Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan, Tokyo, Japan
for support in the Medical School.......................................... 50,000
Toyota Motor North America, Inc., New York, New York
for the Heinz C. Prechter Memorial Fund in the Medical School, in memory of
H einz  Prechter................................................................  10,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  35,000
UCB Research, Inc., Smyrna, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................... 23,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, D.C.
for the W ashington D.C. U  of M  Club Scholarship.................................. 10,000
Rebecca W. VanDyke, Ann Arbor
for research   in   the  M edical School...............................................  10,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Chair of Sustainable Systems and other support in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................. 250,000
Michael P. Wellman, Ann Arbor
5,000 shares of Ariba Inc., common stock
for the Wellman Endowment in the College of Engineering.......................... 15,775
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering.......................................  149,545
Women's City Club of Detroit tndowment Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in  the School of Nursing.............................................. 10,785
Marian E. Wright, Flint
921.909 units of Templeton Growth Fund Inc., mutual fund
for the Marian E. Wright Writing Center at the University of Michigan-Flint............ 17,000
Robin B. Wright, Washington, D.C.
for the Robin Wright Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 12,500
Jack and Charlene Zachary Fund of the Central Indiana Community Foundation, Inc.,
Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 100,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
James Adley, Lake Havasu City, Arizona
2 paintings for the Museum of Art
Amera Film and Video, Southfield
editing for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
John Anton, Tampa, Flordia
books for the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Apple Computers, Chicago, Illinois
equipment for ITD
Ann Edmonds Avery, Grand Rapids
22 portraits for the Museum of Art
Benevolent Partners, New York, New York
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Joel N. Bregman, Ann Arbor
journals for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Mardigian Library
Madeline Brine, New York, New York
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Nick Caracci, Troy
equipment for the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Cisco Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
equipment for the College of Engineering
Michae Conroy, South Hampton, New York
art work for the Museum of Art
James L. Curtis, Jamaica, New York
art work for the Museum of Art
Esperion Therapeutics, Inc., Ann Arbor
lab supplies for the College of Engineering
Peter N. Heydon, Ann Arbor
art work for the Museum of Art


43




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Sonja Hoel, Menlo Park, California
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Herschel S. Horowitz, Bethesda, Maryland
art work for the School of Public Health
International Business Machines, Raleigh, North Carolina
equipment for the College of Engineering
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New York
equipment for the College of Engineering
Peter Kujawa, Brighton
Serbo-Croatian Publications for the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Benjamin Lev, West Bloomfield
books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Mardigian Library
Lockheed Martin Missles and Space, Bay Area Chapter, Sunnyvale, California
equipment for the College of Engineering
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
equipment and software for the College of Engineering and the School of Information
Christopher Millio, Milan
art work for the Museum of Art
George Millio, Tarpon Springs, Florida
art work for the Museum of Art
John L. Moran, Whitmore Lake
equipment for the School of Dentistry
Samuel Klein Nelson, Brooklyn, New York
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Northwest Airlines, Detroit
travel for the School of Business Administration
James G. Pyrros, Bloomfield Hills
periodicals and correspondence for the Special Collections Library
Mary Romig-deYoung Estate
musical instruments for the School of Music
Ashok Sani, Long Island City, New York
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Sudesh Sani, Long Island City, New York
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.comn for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Sunil Sani, Long Island City, New York
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Suresh Sani, Long Island City, New York
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Duncan Van Dusen, Austin, Texas
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Elizabeth Walcott, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
George Walcott, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Isabel Walcott, New York, New York
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
John C. Walcott, Summit, New Jersey
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Wister Walcott, San Francisco, California
a portion of the entire holdings of SmartGirl.com for the Institute for Research on Women and
Gender
Dell Computer Corporation, Stevensville
four computer systems for the University Hospitals
Fisher Healthcare, Hanover Park, Illinois
coulter hematology reagents for the Pathology Department
William Stephenson, Beverly Hills
art works for the Alfred Berkowitz Gallery at the University of Michigan-Dearborn


44




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Bibliotheque d'art et d' archeologic, Geneva, Sweden
Julie G. Bierer, Ann Arbor
George R. Bingham, Dearborn
Charles W. Cares, Jr., Ann Arbor
Marilyn J. Couture, Ann Arbor
Tom Dunigan, Dearborn
Jack A. Josephson, New York, New York
George Morrison, III, Dearborn
Toshiko 0. Putz, Dearborn
Marilyn Weaver, Clinton
Paul Fossum, Ann Arbor
Geoffrey L. Gordon, Novi
D.R. Shackleton Bailey, Ann Arbor
Abbas H. Berro, Dearborn
Steve Bolen, Manitou Beach
H.D. Cameron, Ann Arbor
Tracy Edwards, Ann Arbor
Traianos Gagos, Ann Arbor
Judith H. Scanlon, Ypsilanti
Diane Shiemo, Onstead
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports.         President Bollinger highlighted  the
appointment of four distinguished University professors.      He also recognized the
appointment of Lisa A. Tedesco as interim provost and executive vice president for
academic affairs and noted that she would retain her post as vice president and secretary of
the university.
Personnel Actions. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND P:ROMO()TIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULLPRC)FESSOR RANKS
WITH TENULRE
Effective on the dates indicated
Bright, Charles C., M.A. Professor of History and Professor in the Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001
Grosky, William I., Ph.D., Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure,
September 1, 2001, and Chair, Department of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Kalbfleisch, John D., Ph.D., Professor of Biostatistics, January 1, 2002, also appointed Chair,
Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2006
Long, Jeffrey C., Ph.D., Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School, September 21, 2001
Lord, Catherine, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001
Lukacs, Nicholas W., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Pathology, Medical School, September 1, 2001
Morrison, Frederick J., Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001
Mortazawi, Amir, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College
of Engineering, September 1, 2001
Neuman, W. Russell, Ph.D., Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001
States, David J., M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School, September 21, 2001


45




3eptember Meeting, 2001


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PRO[MOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOII UT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Burant, Charles F., M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September
21, 2001
El Kateeb, Ali M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 2001
Lafontaine, Francine, Ph.D., Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, and Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REll      JLAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC AD         INIST LATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Jackson, James S., Director, Center for Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Kaul, Gautam, Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, September 1-December 31, 2001
Little, Roderick J. A., Chair, Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, September
1-December 31, 2001
Smith, Gerald R., Director, Museum of Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Smith, Sherril A., Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of Art and Design, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR      TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Baker, Wayne E., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, also appointed Professor of Sociology, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Davis, Gerald F., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resources Management, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, also appointed Professor of Sociology, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
DiNardo, John, Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, also
appointed Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Frier, Bruce W., Professor of Classics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Henry King Ransom Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, also
appointed Interim Chair, Department of Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Friesen, Lauren D., Associate Professor of Theatre and Dance, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Theatre and Dance, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of African Studies, UM-Flint
College Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Gikandi, Simon E., Robert Hayden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature and
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Comparative Literature, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2001-May 31, 2006
Gutmann, Myron P., Director, Inter-University Consortium for Political and Social Research, Institute
for Social Research, also appointed Professor of History with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001
Klionsky, Daniel J., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, September 21,
2001
Lewis, Richard L., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without
tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed Associate Professor of Linguistics, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006


46




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Morash, Ronald P., Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Oaklander, Lester N., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, also appointed, Chair, Department of
Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1, 2001-December 31, 2004
Rosenthal, Judy, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Coordinator of Women's
Gender Studies Program, also appointed Chair, Department of Sociology, Anthropology, and
Criminal Justice, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Shatz, Marilyn J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Linguistics,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Taheri, Paul A., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed Assistant Dean for
Academic Business Development, Medical School, September 21, 2001
APPROVAL OF LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTEDl ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATII          STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Hales, Thomas C., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
teaching leave extended, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Nettles, Arie L., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, personal leave extended,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Platz, Stephanie S., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave extended, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Prahalad, Coimbatore K., Harvey C. Fruehauf Professor of Business Administration and Professor of
Corporate Strategy and International Business, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
personal leave extended, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Wasserman, Kimberly, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, duty off campus extended, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Wintroub, A. Michael, Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave extended, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSO RSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Academic Administrationotion Position
Assistant Dean for Academic Business Development, Medical School, August 15, 2001
Niaming Established Collegiate Profssorshs
Lawrence S. Bartell Collegiate Professorship in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1,2001
Martha Guernsey Colby Collegiate Professorship in English and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001
William J. Gedney Collegiate Professorship in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001
Establishing Named Proessorships
Amy and Alan Lowenstein Professorship in Democracy, Democratization, and Human Rights, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, October 1, 2001
Constance F. and Arnold C. Pohs Endowed Professorship in Telecommunications, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, October 1, 2001
John Derby Evans Professorship in Media Technology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001
Korea Foundation Professorship in Korean Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001
Myron and Margaret Winegarden Visiting Professorship, UM-Flint Office of the Chancellor, August 1,
2002
Victor Vaughan Collegiate Professorship in the History of Medicine, Medical School, August 15, 2001
William Wilhartz Assistant Professorship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2001
Renaming Established rossorship
From the Endowed Professorship in Academic Pathology to the Paul de Kruif Professorship in
Academic Pathology, Medical School, September 1, 2001


47




September Meeting, 2001


Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorsheips
Avi-Yonah, Reuven S., Irwin I. Cohn Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2001-August 31,
2006
Cohen, Michael D., William D. Hamilton Collegiate Professor of Complex Systems, School of
Information, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Coucouvanis, Dimitri N., Lawrence S. Bartell Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Davies, Martin K., Marshall M. Weinberg Endowed Distinguished Visiting Professor of Philosophy,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Davies, Peter Ho, William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Ezrahi, Sidra DeKoven, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Gurin, Patricia Y., Nancy Cantor Distinguished University Professor of Psychology and Women's
Studies, Office of the Provost, September 1, 2001
Howell, Joel D., Victor Vaughan Collegiate Professor of the History of Medicine, Medical School,
September 22, 2001-September 21, 2006
Lambropoulos, Vassilios, C. P. Cavafy Professor of Modern Greek Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Lempert, Richard Owen, Eric Stein Distinguished University Professor of Law, Office of the Provost,
September 1, 2001
Malamud, Deborah C., James E. and Sarah A. Degan Professor of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Neuman, W. Russell, John Derby Evans Professor of Media Technology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Nix, Jamie L., Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting, School of Music, September 1, 2001-August 31,
2005
Nunez, Gabriel, Paul de Kruif Professor of Academic Pathology, Medical School, September 1,
2001-August 31, 2006
Orringer, Mark B., John Alexander Distinguished Professor of Thoracic Surgery, Medical School,
October 1, 2001-September 30, 2006
Railton, Peter A., John Stephenson Perrin Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Reisman, Nancy B., Helen Herzog Zell Professor of Fiction, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Reynolds, Pamela, University of Michigan Presidential Professor, Office of the Vice Provost for
Academic Affairs, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Smith, Sidonie A., Martha Guernsey Colby Collegiate Professor of English and Women's Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Thomason, Sarah G., William J. Gedney Collegiate Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Van der Voo, Rob, Frank H. T. Rhodes Collegiate Professor of Geological Sciences, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Velleman, J. David, James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Warner, Kenneth E., Avedis Donabedian Distinguished University Professor of Public Health, Office of
the Provost, September 1, 2001
Weick, Karl E., Rensis Likert Distinguished University Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Psychology, Office of the Provost, September 1, 2001
Renewal of Appointment to Established Professorship
Cooper, Frederick, Charles Gibson Collegiate Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2006
Other Transactions
Axelrod, Robert, transfer 50% of tenure from College of Literature, Science, and the Arts to the Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy
Barthelmes, David W., Vice Chancellor for Administration, UM-Flint Office of the Chancellor,
August 15, 2001
Glover, Thomas W., transfer tenure from the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to
the Department of Human Genetics, Medical School, September 1, 2001


48




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Grigely, Joseph C. from Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design to Associate
Professor of History of Art, with tenure, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001
Hall, Richard L., transfer 50% of tenure from the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts to the
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, September 1, 2001
Robinson, Terry E., Elliot S. Valenstein Collegiate Professor of Behavioral Neuroscience and
Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2001-August 31, 2006 (previously the Elliot S. Valenstein Collegiate Professorship of
Behavioral Science)
Tedesco, Lisa A., Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, Office of the
Provost, September 6, 2001
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sort
Burt, Brian A., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2003, vice Kent J. Sheets, term expired
Soo, Lydia M., September 1, 2001-August 31, 2003, vice Nichole Pinkard, term expired
Clements Library Associates Board of overnors
Dance, William H., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Diedrich, Duane N., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Finkenstaedt, Willam C. Jr., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Goss, James, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002, vice William L. Hurley, term expired
Heydon, Peter N., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Hoyt, Ruth Briggs, reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Kennedy, Sally, reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Kingsley, Thomas, reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Klancnik, James M., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Lowenhaupt, Charles, reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Mason, Philip P., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Pohrt, Richard A., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Price, Jacob M., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Schoff, Joanna, reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Schoonhoven, Anne Marie, reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Seger, Martha R., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Shapiro, Harold T., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Thompson, Bradley L. II, reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Upton, David, reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
van den Bosch, Elizabeth, reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Wheeler, John D., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Winkelman, Margaret W., reappointed, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Collese  of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Gomez, Luis, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002, vice Simon E. Gikandi, leave of absence
Michigan Memorial Phoenix roect Executive Committee
Yocum, Charles F., reappointed, retroactive, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2005
Military fficer Education Program Committee
Blair, David C., reappointment, retroactive, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Deskins, Donald R. Jr., reappointment, retroactive, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Pierce, Penny F., reappointment, retroactive, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committee
Brown, Daniel G., retroactive, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2003, vice Joan I. Nassauer, term expired
Grese, Robert E., retroactive, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2003, vice Donald R. Zak, term expired
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Barkauskas, Violet H., reappointed, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
Guthrie, Barbara J., reappointed, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
Recsidena.A  a  Co  mittee


49




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Ismail, Amid, retroactive, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Bernard Patrick Maloy, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Cantor submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Amieh, Amal, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Arbabi, Saman, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Arslanian-Engoren, Cynthia M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Attarian, Gwynne M., D.D.S., Lecturer in Prosthodontics, Biological and Materials Sciences, School of
Dentistry, August 22, 2001-August 31, 2002
Bailey, Joseph, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2001
Barr, Michael S., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Baxter, Scott J., M.A., Lecturer II in English Language Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 2001
Bice, Douglas C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Bloch, Jonathan I., M.S., Lecturer I in Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Bluhm, Sheila M., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Bommarito, Michael J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
Medical School, July 9, 2001-July 8, 2002
Borschel, Debaroti M., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
Brown, David L., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
August 1, 2001-July 31, 2004
Bull, Joseph L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Chen, Clement C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Accounting, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Cheng, Shijun, Ph.D., Lecturer in Business, School of Business Administration, July 1-August 31, 2001
Choksi, Vaishali R., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Chotiprasidhi, Poonputt, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2004
Chunduri, Renu, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Conway, Colleen M., Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Education), School of Music,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Dahl, Scott J., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Deng, Yiwei, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Diaz, Vincente M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Asian/Pacific American Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Diaz-Perez, Arturo, M.D.,Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Dimagno, Matthew J., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Douglas, Julie A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Human Genetics, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Duvernoy, Wolf, M.D., Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2004
Ergen, Fatma B., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Fitch, Dale K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Gajarski, Robert J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, August 1, 2001-July 31, 2003
Gioia-Hasick, Deborah, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Graham, Malcolm D., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002


50




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Green, Russell A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 31, 2001-May 31, 2004
Grogan-Kaylor, Andrew C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Grossman, Paul, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Hagopian, John R., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 1, 2001-July 31, 2002
Halkiadakis, Ioannis, Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2001-July 6, 2002
Hartmann, Erica, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Hilles, Richard L., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Humes, Eduardo A. C., D.D.S., Lecturer in Oral Surgery, Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of
Dentistry, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Jensen, Michael, M.B.A., Lecturer in Management, School of Business Administration, July 1-August 31,
2001
Kankaanranta, Anna, M.Sc., Lecturer II in English Language Institute, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2001
Kalyvas, Andreas, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Kelly, Aine M., M.B., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Kent, Alicia, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Kileny, Sharon, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2001-July 31, 2002
Kiska, Timothy, M.A., Lecturer in Communications, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Knapp, Christopher, M.A., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, July 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Koujok, Khaldoun, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Kwok, Yeong S., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 15, 2001-August 14, 2002
Larsen, Finn, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Lee, Soon-Ki, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 13, 2001-August 12, 2002
Lee, Angel W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
Lieberman, Andrew P., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, August 1, 2001-July 31,
2002
Lypson, Monica L., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 15, 2001-July 14, 2002
Mahlke, Scott A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College
of Engineering, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Maiorova, Olga E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Martin, Brian B., Ph.D., Lecturer in Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, September
1-December 31, 2001
Mengozzi, Stefano, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music,
September 1, 2001-May 31,2004
Merrill, Christi A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Comparative Literature and Assistant Professor of Asian
Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31,
2004
Mukherjee, Debabrata, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Muller, Karl A. III, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Nau, David P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social and Administrative Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Norton, Richard K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Osbeck, Mark K., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Pezzala, Edmund J., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Poe, Gina R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, July 15, 2001-July 14,
2002


51




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Pole, Nnamdi, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1,2001-May 31, 2004
Reddy, Raju C., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Robinson, B. Neal, M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Roddier, Mireille N., M.A., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Ruiz, Robert E., M.D., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, August 1, 2001-July 31, 2002
Sanchez, Joseph M., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Satyendra, Ramon, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Theory), School of Music,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2005
Schuerer, Douglas J. E., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 16, 2001-July 15, 2002
Shah, Rajal B., M.B.B.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School,
July 27, 2001-July 26, 2003
Shames, Jonathan, D.M.A., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2001-May
31,2004
Shatkin, Gavin M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Shelley, Elise M., M.L.A., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Shelley, Cameron, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Shim, Taehyun, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn College of
Enginnering and Computer Science, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2003
Smith, Andrea L., M.A., Assistant Professor of Native American Studies and Assistant Professor of
Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2005
Spreitzer, Gretchen M., Ph.D., Clinical Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31 2002
Staller, Karen M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Stearns, Vered, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
Sullivan, Kevin P., M.A., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 2001
Synnes, Kristine, M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Tardy, Christine M., M.A., Lecturer II in English Language Institute, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2001
Taylor, Andre, M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 9, 2001-July 8, 2002
Torres, Edgar, M.P.T., Lecturer in Physical Therapy, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, July 23, 2001-August 31, 2002
Utiger, Cheryl A., M.D., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Valdez, Riccardo, M.D., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Viswanath, Divakar, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Wang, Shaomeng, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Warren, Alicyn, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2001-May 31,
2004
Webb, Helen W., M.A.L.S., Lecturer III in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
White, Eric S., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Yavin, Omri, M.A., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Armellini, Debora B., D.D.S., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, June 25, 2001-June 24, 2004


52




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Brown, Eugene J., B.A., from Lecturer I in Mathematics, Comprehensive Studies Program to Lecturer in
Mathematics, College of Engineering, July 1-August 31, 2001
Carlson, Martha D., Ph.D., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases and from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology,
Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Cheng, Shijun, Ph.D., from Lecturer in Business to Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Douglas, Julie A., Ph.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Hoff, Donna L., M.D., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
July 1,2001-June 30, 2002
Kales, Helen C., M.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Kemper, Alex R., M.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, August 1, 2001-July 31, 2002
Liu, J. Rebecca, M.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, August 1, 2001-July 31, 2002
Martin, Scott, M.D., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Mohammed, Layla, M.B.Ch.B., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, August 1, 2001-July 1, 2002
Rushton, Jerry L, M.D., from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Lecturer in
Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Lecturer in
Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Saavedra, Richard, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed Lecturer in Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management,
School of Business Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Schultz, Carol H., M.D., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine,
Medical School, June 1-May 31, 2001
Scott, Julius S. III, Ph.D., from Assistant Professor to Lecturer III in Afroamerican and African Studies
and from Assistant Professor to Lecturer III in History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brewer, George, Professor Emeritus of Human Genetics and Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Kaufman, Peter B., Professor Emeritus in the Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-December 31, 2001
MacDonald, Robert L., Russell N. DeJong Professor Emeritus of Neurology, Professor Emeritus of
Neurology, and Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-August 31,
2002
Thompson, Norman W., Henry King Ransom Endowed Professor Emeritus of Surgery and Professor
Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1-October 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Acosta-Hughes, Benjamin B., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Chen, Yan, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Dolgachev, Igor, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Finn, Janet L., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, outside teaching leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Gibson, Faison P., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Systems, School of Business
Administration, medical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001


53




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Gikandi, Simon E., Robert Hayden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature and
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Gingerich, Philip D., Ermine Cowles Case Collegiate Professor of Paleontology, Director and Curator,
Museum of Paleontology, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, Professor of
Biological Sciences, without tenure, and Professor of Anthropology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Gonzalez, John M., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of English
Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Greene, Connie L., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Groat, Linda N., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, and Professor of Women' s Studies, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Gutierrez, Lorraine M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, Associate Professor of Psychology, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Social Work,
with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Herbert, Sharon C., Professor of Classical Architecture and Greek and Chair, Department of Classical
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Hunt, Nancy R., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, Medical School,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Karni, Smadar, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Kivelson, Valerie A., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Kleiner, Bruce A., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001, and personal leave, January 1-May 31,
2002
Kuzon, William M. Jr., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
June 1-October 31, 2001
Lewis, David L., Professor of Business History, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
personal leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Moreland, Keith A., Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Moy, Allen, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Omann, Geneva M., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Biological
Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, personal leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Papazian, Dennis R., Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Parrish, Susan S., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Peacor, Donald R., Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Pijanowski, Eugene M., Professor of Art, without tenure, School of Art and Design, retirement
furlough, January 1-December 31, 2002
Railton, Peter A., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy and Professor of Philosophy,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Somanathan, Rohini, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Vassiliadou, Sophia, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
De Ferranti, Hugh B. Z., Assistant Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music, and Assistant
Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002 (previously reported as duty off campus, September
1-December 31, 2001)


54




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Lassiter, Matthew D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002 (previously reported as September
1-December 31, 2001)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Aitken, Maureen T., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, June 30, 2001
Albustani, Yousif I., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture, May 31,
2001
Baker, Samuel M., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 31,2001
Brake, Mary L., Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure,
College of Engineering. June 30, 2001
Brooks, Christine M., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology, May 31,
2001
Castille, Bienvenido, Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2001
Chang, Cheong-Hee, Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, August 31,
2001
Coffey, John T., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering. May 31, 2001
Farjo, Ayad A., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Gromacki, Susan J., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, May 31, 2001
Hecker, Douglas A., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture, May 31,
2001
Henning, George T., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, August 19, 2001
Horenstein, Richard B., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Howard, Denise, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, July 31, 2001
Johnson, Mark, Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2001
Kaplan, Bruce, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, July 26, 2001
Kim, John Y., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Komolpis, Ruangrat, Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 31, 2001
Levit, Robert A., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture,
December 31, 2001
Mann, Eric D., Lecturer III in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Maynard, Charles J., Professor of Education and Dean, UM-Flint School of Education and Human
Services, June 22, 2001
Meier-Kriesche, Herwig-Ulf, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 26, 2001
Meredith, Michael J., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture, June 30,
2001
Meshnick, Steven R., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, September 30,
2001
Minor, John H., Lecturer in Theatre, School of Music, June 30, 2001
Mitchell, William G., Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business, with tenure, School
of Business Administration, September 1, 2001
Nysenholc, Judith, Lecturer III in Holocaust Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2001
Ozkan-Haller, H. Tuba, Assistant Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, College of
Engineering. July 31, 2001
Papadopoulos, Stephen M., Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, Medical School, August 1,
2001
Pildes, Richard H., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, May 31, 2001
Rao, Geetha S., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Ray, Indrakshi, Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Services, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, June 30, 2001
Ray, Indrajit, Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Services, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, June 30, 2001
Skinner, Martha L, Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture, May 31, 2001
Song, Julie H., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Turkay, Atac, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 16, 2001
Wilcox, Glenn S., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture, May 31, 2001


55




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Wisniewski, Walli Ann, Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2001
Zamorski, Mark A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School, July 31, 2001
Retired
Ross, Marc H., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2001
Flynn, Gordon L., Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences, without tenure, College of Pharmacy,
August 31, 2001
Term Completed
Barnes, Janice E., Lecturer in Engineering Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering. May 31,
2001
Bradner, Alexandra E., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2001
Duan, Zhong-Hui, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2001
Eppinger, Michael J., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Fox, Kenneth A., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Gates, Sondra S., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 2001
Glazier, David B., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Kurganov, Alexander, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2001
Leczycki, Adam Z., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Letteri, Mark, Lecturer II in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Nervi, Angela, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Novinskey, Christina M., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30,
2001
O'Brien, Colleen, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 2001
Petrova, Guergana, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1, 2001
Pulizzotto, Ian F., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2001
Rao, Tharaknath B., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 21, 2001
Tolinski, Michael J., Lecturer in Engineering Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering.
August 31, 2001
Weckesser, Warren G., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2001
Deceased
Jacobson, Harold K., Jesse Siddal Reeves Professor of Political Science and Professor of Political
Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 13, 2001
Discharged
Velez-Aguayo, Evelyn, Assistant Professor of Dance, School of Music, May 31, 2001
CANCELLATION OF REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Cahill, Thomas J., appointed Vice Chancellor for Administration, UM-Flint, June 2001
Retirement Memoirs.        Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption four
retirement memoirs.
Gordon L. Flynn, Ph.D., professor of pharmaceutical sciences, College of
Pharmacy, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 2001.
Professor Flynn received his B.S. degree from Rutgers University in 1960 and his
Ph.D. degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1965. From 1965-72, he was a
researcher at the Upjohn Company. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as
associate professor of pharmacy in 1972 and was promoted to professor in 1977.
Professor Flynn's research has focused on drug delivery phenomena, particularly
the areas of percutaneous absorption theory and mechanisms, the enhancement of skin
permeation, and the topical and transdermal delivery of drugs. He has published


56




September Meeting, 2001


approximately 175 research manuscripts, review articles, and book chapters on the
structure-physical property relationships of organic compounds, the physicochemical
behavior of skin, percutaneous absorption and topical dosage forms, mass transfer, and
concepts in drug delivery.  His research accomplishments have been pioneering,
mechanistic, and translational in bringing basic concepts to clinical reality. He was
awarded the very prestigious Ebert Prize by the Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences of
the American Pharmaceutical Association (APhA) in 1974 and was made a fellow of the
American Association of Pharmaceutical Scientists (AAPS) in 1987. Professor Flynn
has been a standing member of the Pharmacology Study Section of the National Institutes
of Health and has served as a consultant to industry and government agencies. Among his
many memberships, he has been particularly active in the Academy of Pharmaceutical
Sciences of the APhA and in the AAPS, serving as the first chair of the AAPS
Dermatopharmaceutics Study Group. Professor Flynn holds over 10 USA patents.
Professor Flynn has served as a mentor for more than 45 graduate students,
postdoctoral fellows, and visiting scientists and as an active participant in the Doctor of
Pharmacy curriculum. He served for many years as chair of the College of Pharmacy's
Space Allocation and Utilization Committee, which involved him in a variety of space
planning issues, including the oversight of several substantial renovation projects.
The Regents now salute this distinguished and dedicated educator by naming
Gordon L. Flynn professor emeritus of pharmaceutical sciences.
Donald E. Hultquist, Ph.D., professor of biological chemistry, retired from active
faculty status on August 31, 2001, following 37 years of service.
Professor Hultquist received his B.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Rochester in 1952 and 1962, respectively. Following postdoctoral research at the
University of Minnesota and UCLA, he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as
an instructor in 1964. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1965, associate
professor in 1968, and professor in 1979.
In his research laboratory, Professor Hultquist mentored nine biological chemistry
doctoral students and a large number of students in undergraduate, medical, and
interdisciplinary graduate programs. His research focused on the catalysis of
oxidation-reduction reactions in red blood cells and on the functioning of antioxidant
systems. Previously unrecognized hemeproteins, copper proteins, reductases, and
proteases were isolated, chemically characterized, and studied with regard to biological
function and medical significance. He gained particular recognition for the elucidation of
the methemoglobin reduction system and the system by which riboflavin prevents
oxidative damage in tissues.
Professor Hultquist developed highly successful curricular innovations. He taught
the first undergraduate biochemistry course on campus and coupled this with a
research-based enrichment seminar. For second-year Inteflex students, he designed and
taught a medical biochemistry course which stressed active student participation. For
medical students, he incorporated successful aspects of the Inteflex course, developed
and taught a pre-matriculation summer course, and set up a clinical correlation program
in which fourth-year medical students taught first-year students. He designed individual
programs for M.D./Ph.D. students and then encouraged the school to apply for funding for
a combined M.D./Ph.D. program. For his efforts in teaching, he was awarded the
University's Outstanding Teaching Award.


57




September Meeting, 2001


Professor Hultquist served for one year as the acting director of the Graduate
Program in Cell and Molecular Biology and for thirteen years as director of the medical
biochemistry and molecular and cell biology courses. From 1996-2000, he was associate
chair of the Department of Biological Chemistry and administrator of its graduate program.
The Regents now recognize this faculty member for his distinguished service by
naming Donald E. Hultquist professor emeritus of biological chemistry.
Arnold P. Morawa, Ph.D., assistant dean for alumni relations and continuing
education and associate professor of dentistry, Department of Orthodontics and Pediatric
Dentistry, in the School of Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2001.
Dr. Morawa received his D.D.S. degree (1964), two M.S. degrees (1964 and
1966), and his Ph.D. degree (1973), all from the University of Michigan. He joined the
faculty of the School of Dentistry as an assistant professor in 1973 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1976. He held an appointment as an attending staff member in the
University Hospitals from 1977-93 and was appointed assistant dean for alumni relations
and continuing education in 1990.
Dr. Morawa was an important contributor to the School of Dentistry. One of his key
contributions was his oversight of the two-year Kellogg Building expansion and
renovation project, completed in the fall of 2000. He also played a significant role during
the school's most successful five-year capital campaign. Dr. Morawa has been active in
numerous professional organizations, including the Michigan Dental Association, the
American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry, the Michigan Academy of Pedodontics, and
the Washtenaw District Dental Society. He was on the Council on American Dental
Association sessions and international relations committee from 1988-92 and was
program director for the American Dental Association's annual meeting in 1991. In
1990, he served on the continuing dental education committee for the State Board of
Dentistry. In 1995, Dr. Morawa helped organize a program commemorating fifty years of
water fluoridation in Grand Rapids, Michigan, as part of the International Fluoridation
Symposium. In January 2000, he was instrumental in organizing the program, "Scientific
Frontiers in Clinical Dentistry," hosted by the School of Dentistry and sponsored by the
Delta Dental Fund and the National Institute for Dental and Craniofacial Research. Dr.
Morawa is a member of Sigma Xi and Omicron Kappa Upsilon honorary societies. In
2000, Dr. Morawa received the Distinguished Service Award from the Alumni Society
Board of Governors.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Arnold P.
Morawa associate professor emeritus of dentistry.
Marc H. Ross, Ph.D., professor of physics in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Ross received his B.S. degree in 1948 from Queens College in New York
and his Ph.D. degree in 1952 from the University of Wisconsin. Following service as a
faculty member at Indiana University, 1e joined the University of Michigan faculty as a
full professor in 1963.
Although he was originally trained as a low energy nuclear theorist, Professor Ross
shifted his attention to automobile energy usage in the mid-1970s. He is internationally
known for his research regarding environmental implications of efficient energy uses of
automobiles and the associated costs and emissions. His work in energy studies involves
approaches from physics, economics, behavioral sciences, and public policy. His
primary focus has been on automobile energy usage, and he has conducted extensive


58




September Meeting, 2001


simulations of engines, vehicles, and driving to explore fuel economy improvement and
pollution reduction.
Professor Ross has co-authored 2 books and over 120 journal articles. A highly
effective teacher, he mentored 13 Ph.D. students during his career. His service within the
University includes 3 terms on the Department of Physics Executive Committee and 2
terms on the Senate Assembly. He also directed the UM Residential College from
1974-77. Nationally, he served on the Advisory Panel on Synthetic Fuels for the House
Committee on Science and Technology (1980) and chaired the Forum on Physics and
Society for the American Physics Society (1992-94) and the Board of Energy &
Environmental Systems for the National Recruiting Center (1994-95). He is a member of
the board of directors of the American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy and
served as its president from 1993-98.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Marc H. Ross professor
emeritus of physics.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported this month.
President Bollinger noted the deaths of Professor Harold Jacobson and Professors
Emeriti Beverly Pooley and Max Wingo.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda. It was noted
that the MSA report would be given after Public Comments.
The University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year Ended June 30, 2001
The Regents received the University's comprehensive financial statements for fiscal
year 2001 under separate cover.
2001-2002 Budget Report Book
The Regents received the University's Budget Report Book for fiscal year 2001-2002.
Alternative Asset Commitments
The Regents were informed of the recent commitment of approximately $25 million
from the Long Term Portfolio to two follow-on funds of previously approved alternative
asset partnerships: Morgenthaler Partners VII, L.P. and Candover 2001, L.P.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Neonatal Intensive
Care Unit Expansion
Executive Vice Presidents Kasdin and Omenn informed the Regents that the Hospital
Executive Board had approved the expansion of the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU)
by three beds and the submission of an application for a Certificate of Need with the
Michigan Department of Consumer and Industry Services.
It was decided that Finance-Property agenda items 5-7 would be considered as a
group. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the following three items:


59




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Fixed Income Management
The Regents approved broadening the mandate of Payden & Rygel to include fixed
income management and duration overlay for the Long Term Portfolio.
1244 South Estate Point, Inverness, Florida
The Regents approved an adjustment to the list price of the property at 1244 South
Estate Point, Inverness, Florida, as described in the Regents Communication.
Naming of the Plaza Adjacent to the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Building
The Regents approved the naming of the plaza in front of the Naval Architecture and
Marine Engineering Building the Irwin Chase Plaza.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the following six actions:
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University Hospital
(UH) Ethylene-Oxide Sterilizer Replacement Project
The Regents approved the UMHHC Ethylene-Oxide Sterilizer Replacement Project as
described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Mott Children's
Hospital Chilled Water and Condenser Water Pumps Replacement Project
The Regents approved the UMHHC Mott Children's Hospital Chilled Water and
Condenser Water Pumps Replacement Project as described and authorized issuing the
project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the
approved budget of $980,000.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) North Campus
Administrative Complex Heating and Cooling Upgrade Project
The Regents approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) North Campus Administrative Complex Heating and Cooling Upgrade Project
as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Clinical Call
Center Project
The Regents approved the UMHHC Clinical Call Center Project at the North Campus
Administrative Complex as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing
the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Canton Health
Center Shell Space Utilization Project
The Regents approved the UMHHC Canton Health Center Shell Space Utilization
Project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for


60




September Meetilng, 2001


bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget of $2,175,000.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Cancer and
Geriatric Center Infusion Pharmacy Expansion/Relocation Project
The Regents approved the UTM1HHC Cancer and Geriatric Center Infusion Pharmacy
Expansion/Relocation Project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized
issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are
within the approved budget of $1,200,000.
Lease with Mfilcom, Inc.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved a lease with Milcom, Inc. Because Robert C. Arends is both president of
Milcom, Inc., and a University of Michigan employee, the lease agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences and Milcom, Inc.
2.   The service to be provided is the lease of a building at 320 Commerce Road in
Milford for 48 months, beginning November 1, 2001 at a monthly rate of $4,415.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Robert C. Arends, a University of
Michigan employee, is the president of Milcom, Inc.
Lease Agreement with First Martin Corporation (College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease agreement with First Martin Corporation for property
located at 555 South Forest, for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. Because
the president of First Martin Corporation, William C. Martin, is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and First Martin Corporation.
2.   The service to be provided is a lease for property located at 555 South Forest. The
lease will begin no later than October 1, 2001, for a period of 10 years at a cost of
$4,140.00 per month.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the president of First Martin Corporation.
Lease Agreement with First Martin Corporation (School of Public Health)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a lease agreement with First Martin Corporation for property
located at 555 South Forest, for the School of Public Health. Because the president of First
Martin Corporation, William C. Martin, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its School
of Public Health and First Martin Corporation.


61




September Meeting, 2001


2.   The service to be provided is a lease for a long term project. The lease for 555 South
Forest will begin no later than October 1, 2001, for a period of 10 years at a cost of
$5,989.00 per month.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the president of First Martin Corporation.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Originus Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Originus Inc. Because Drs. John Greden, Stanley Watson, Huda Akil, Michael Uhler, and
Fan Meng, are University of Michigan employees who also hold an equity interest in
Originus Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Originus Inc.
2.   Licensing terms:
Field of Use: All fields
Grant: Exclusive world-wide license, with a right to grant sublicenses. Term of the
agreement is for the life of the patent.
License Fee: $10,000 creditable toward patent expenses
Maintenance Fees: $10,000 per year initially and stepped up through 2010 creditable
against royalty.
Patent Costs: All current and future patent costs will be paid by Originus.
Equity: 7.5% to be held by the University of Michigan in Originus subject to dilution
corresponding to that of the founders.
Royalties: 4% of therapeutic Net Sales; 3% on other Net Sales; 16% of Gross
Sublicensing Revenues for the first 12 month stepped down to 10% after 2004.
Minimum annual royalties in 2003, 2004 and 2005: $10,000 each year, in 2006,
2007, 2008 and 2009: $15,000 each year and in 2010 and in each year thereafter
during the term of this agreement: $40,000 each year.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the license.
3.   Pecuniary interest: The pecuniary interests of Drs. Uhler, Watson, Akil, Meng, and
Greden arises from their ownership interest in Originus, Inc. They have waived any
personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from the
company.
Reassignment Agreement with David M. Kurnit and Pei-Wen Chiang
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a reassignment agreement with David M. Kumit and Pei-Wen
Chiang for the invention "Early Detection of Hypertension by Non-Invasive RT-PCR of
Urine Sediment Cells." Because Drs. Kurnit and Chiang are also University of Michigan
employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Drs. Kurnit and Chiang.
2.   Contract terms include reimbursement to the University for all patent expenses;
payment to the University of 15% of any royalties, equity, or other value received by
Mr. Wang through subsequent marketing and licensing of the invention; the
University retains an irrevocable, royalty-free license to use and practice the
invention internally. No continuing development of the Invention will take place with
the use of University funds or facilities or funds administered by the University
unless appropriate formal University approvals are obtained.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Kurnit and Chiang arise from their involvement in
future commercialization efforts of the invention.


62




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Research Agreement from Originus Inc. to the University of Michigan
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously
approved a research agreement with Originus Inc., for research to be conducted with Dr.
Fan Meng. Because Dr. Meng is a faculty member who also has an ownership interest in
Originus, and because several other faculty members (Michael Uhler, Stanley Watson,
Huda Akil, and John Greden) also have ownership interests in Originus Inc., this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Originus Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The study does
not involve human participants or animals. The period of performance is expected to
be one year at an estimated total cost of $156,000.
3.   The faculty members' pecuniary interests arise from their ownership interest in
Originus Inc.
Research Agreements from Thromgen Inc. to the University of Michigan
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved research agreements ("Agreements") from Thromgen Inc., to the University of
Michigan for the funding of three research projects. Because an owner of Thromgen, Alvin
Schmaier, is also a University of Michigan faculty member, the proposed agreements fall
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreements are the University of Michigan and Thromgen Inc.
2.   Agreement terms: Dr. Benedict Lucchesi will direct the STTR project in the
Department of Pharmacology over a one-year period at an estimated cost of $93,795
including indirect cost at applicable federal rates. Dr. Henry Mosberg will direct the
STTR project in the College of Pharmacy over a one-year period at an estimated total
cost of $251,181 including indirect costs at applicable federal rates. The MLSCF
project also will be directed by Dr. Mosberg over a three-year period at an estimated
total cost of $745,793 including indirect cost at 20% (the rate applicable to the
MLSCF). All appropriate animal and human use approvals have been obtained for
these studies. The terms of the proposed Agreements conform to University policy.
3.   Dr. Schmaier's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Thromgen,
Inc.
Subcontract Agreement from the University of Michigan to the National Center for
Atmospheric Research
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement with the National Center for Atmospheric
Research (NCAR), involving collaboration with Timothy Killeen, director of NCAR.
Because Timothy Killeen is both a co-investigator on the subcontract work at NCAR and is
an adjunct professor at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the National Center for
Atmospheric Research (NCAR).
2.   Under the project, a total subcontract of approximately $60,834 is anticipated to
cover the period of May 1, 2001 through September 30, 2002. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Timothy Killeen's appointment at the University of Mchigan is without salary or
effort.


63




3eptember Meeting, 2001


Subcontract Agreement from the University of Michigan to Mott Children's Health
Center
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a subcontract agreement with Mott Children's Health Center. Because Daniel M.
Briskie, D.D.S., is a faculty member at the Mott Children's Health Center and also holds an
adjunct assistant professorship appointment at the University of Michigan, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Mott Children's Health
Center.
2.   Per the agreement terms, the University of Michigan will issue a subcontract to Mott
Children's Health Center in the amount of $12,585 for the period of January 15,
2001 through August 1, 2003. The terms of the proposed subcontract are acceptable
and conform to University policy.
3.   Dr. Briskie's appointment at the University of Michigan is without effort or
compensation.
Subcontract Agreement from the University of Michigan to The University of Texas
at Austin ("Understanding Social Disparities in Health and Aging")
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved a subcontract agreement to The University of Texas at Austin involving
collaboration with Dr. Marc Musick of The University of Texas at Austin on the project
"Understanding Social Disparities in Health and Aging." Because Dr. Musick also holds
an adjunct assistant research scientist position at the University of Michigan, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and The University of Texas
at Austin.
2.   The terms of the agreement involve a total subcontract of $35,309 to cover the
period July 1, 2001 through June 30, 2003. The University's standard subcontract
provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Musick's appointment at the University of Michigan includes approximately one
summer month each year.
Subcontract Agreement from the University of Michigan to The University of Texas
at Austin ("Michigan Interdisciplinary Center on Social Inequalities, Mind and
Body")
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved a subcontract agreement to The University of Texas at Austin involving
collaboration with Dr. Marc Musick of The University of Texas at Austin on the project
"Michigan Interdisciplinary Center on Social Inequalities, Mind and Body. "
Because Dr. Musick also holds an adjunct assistant research scientist position at the
University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and The University of Texas
at Austin.


64




September Meeting, 2001


2.   Under the terms of the agreement, a total subcontract of $113,265 is anticipated to
cover the period August 1, 2000 through July 31, 2004. The University's standard
subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Musick's appointment at the University of Michigan includes approximately one
summer month each year.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty
2000-2001 Annual Report to the Regents
The Regents received the University of Michigan-Dearborn Committee on the
Economic Status of the Faculty 2000-2001 Annual Report to the Regents.
Vice President for Research
President Bollinger noted that the change in the reporting relationship of the vice
president for research several years ago from the president to the provost had not worked
out as well as had been expected, so he was now requesting that the reporting relationship
be changed back to reporting to the president.
Regent McGowan moved that the reporting relationship of the vice president for
research be changed from reporting to the provost and executive vice president for
academic affairs to reporting to the president. Regent Deitch seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
Motion to Meet in Informal Session
Regent Deitch moved that the Regents adjourn this formal session of the Board of
Regents and begin a nonformal session. Regent Taylor seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Following a 5-minute break, the Regents continued meeting in informal session from
3:05 to 4:10 p.m., after which they reconvened in formal session to hear public
comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated:
Vikas Parekh and Misty Fewel, students, on the Residency Guidelines; Gil Campbell,
citizen and member of the Dexter Historical Society, on Gordon Hall; Bishop Carl F.
Mengeling, Monsignor Michael Murphy, and Attorney Harry Iwasko, Roman Catholic
Diocese of Lansing, regarding plans for Whitehall Boulevard; and Stephen Rassi, regarding
the University's participation in the United Way campaign.
MSA Report
Mr. Matt Nolan, president of Michigan Student Assembly, reported on MSA's
activities since the start of the fall term. He described events that had been organized in
response to the terrorist attack of September 11. He noted that student government leaders
from around the state have been lobbying the state legislature to rescind the tuition tax
credit. He noted that later on MSA was planning to sponsor a ballot initiative to raise the
MSA student fee so that it could meet the increased demand for funding from student
groups. Mr. Nolan reported that MSA was in support of those urging the University not to
support the United Way because of its support of the Boy Scouts of America. Finally, Mr.
Nolan reported that there had been a great deal of unity among the student body in showing


65




September Meeting, 2001


support for Arab-American and Muslim students in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of
September 11.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:45 p.m. The next
meeting will take place October 18-19, 2001.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


66




SPECIAL MEETING, SEPTEMBER 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 28, 2001
A special meeting of the Board of Regents convened at 9:00 a.m. in the Regents'
Room. Present by means of a conference phone call were President Bollinger and
Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Taylor, and White. Also
present were Executive Vice President Kasdin, Interim Provost and Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Newman was absent.
Sale of Real Property
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and announced that the issue before the
board is the sale of up to 55 acres of land located on the University's North Campus to
Pfizer, Inc. He noted that this land has been identified by Pfizer as very important to the
company's plans for significant expansion of its Ann Arbor facility. From the University's
point of view, the proposal provides the means for important academic
collaborations —with students, with the Medical School, the College of Engineering, the
College of Pharmacy, and the health system —that the University desires to develop with
Pfizer. Thus both parties have strong reasons for proceeding with this initiative. He noted
that Executive Vice President Kasdin and Vice President Wilbanks had put forth a
tremendous effort to bring the transaction to fruition.
Executive Vice President Kasdin clarified that the board is being requested to
approve the sale of up to 55 acres of land located east of Huron Parkway to Pfizer's
subsidiary, Parke-Davis, at a price of $27.6 million, adjusted depending on the variance
in the size of the parcel from 55 acres. He noted that the purchase agreement includes a
restriction on use of the land to be consistent with its current use of property in Ann
Arbor. The agreement also contains a "right of first opportunity," so that if in the future
Pfizer decides that it no longer wants to own the land or any part of it, the land will be
appraised and the University will be given an opportunity to purchase the land from
Pfizer.
Vice President Wilbanks reported that discussions regarding this property have been
held with the city of Ann Arbor, and discussions will continue between Pfizer and the city
about the treatment of this property. The recent discussions with the city regarding
infrastructure needs have been very productive, and the partnership that exists among the
city, the University, and Pfizer has been evident.
Regent Brandon moved approval of the sale of up to 55 acres of North Campus
property to Parke-Davis, acknowledgement of the authority of the executive vice
president and chief financial officer to execute the purchase agreement, and authorization
for the executive vice president and chief financial officer to take the actions required
under the purchase agreement and such other actions as may be necessary to consummate
the sale. Regent Horning seconded the motion.


67




3pecial Meeting, Septem  er 201


Regent Taylor inquired whether there has been any significant opposition to this
proposal. Executive Vice President Kasdin responded that the University is not aware of
any opposition, and that it is now Pfizer's obligation to work with the city and the
community in determining how the land will be developed. The University's remaining
involvement will occur in its role as owner of the abutting land.
Regent McGowan inquired about the remaining conditions pertaining to the sale.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that there is a condition to the closing that
Pfizer obtain certain government approvals. Vice President Wilbanks commented that
future discussions will revolve around requests that Pfizer is anticipated to make of the
city, such as for a tax abatement or a tax financing district. It is expected that the state
will also be involved in creating a package of inducements that is typical when additional
job creation activities occur.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously in a roll call
vote.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 9:08 a.m.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary oj the University


68




OCTOBER MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 18, 2001
The Regents convened at 1:50 p.m. in the Michigan Rooms on the campus of the
University of Michigan-Flint. Present were President Bollinger and Regents Brandon,
Homing, Maynard, Newman, and Taylor. Also present were Vice President Feagin, Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas,
Vice President Rudgers, Interim Provost and Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice
President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Deitch, Regent McGowan, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, and Executive Vice President Omenn were absent.
Regent White participated in the meeting by phone.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and observed that working with the
Flint campus had been a great pleasure during his tenure as president. He noted that he
had especially enjoyed his interactions with members of the campus community during the
chancellor search that led to the appointment of Chancellor Mestas.  He thanked
Chancellor Mestas and the Flint community for all of their contributions to the University
of Michigan.
Annual Report of Investments
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the goal of the annual investment report is
to provide a context for evaluating the decisions that the Board of Regents will confront
during the coming year. He noted that the year ended June 30, 2001, had been a difficult
one, but that the University had managed to limit the loss of capital during the economic
downturn. Executive Vice President Kasdin emphasized that the Board of Regents retains
all authority with respect to the investment portfolio, including asset allocation and the
hiring of investment managers, and it consults with the Investment Advisory Committee
semi-annually. He called on Erik Lundberg, the University's chief investment officer.
Mr. Lundberg gave a presentation about the University's investment policies and
portfolio. He noted that investment activities are governed by a set of guiding principles
set forth by the Regents. These principles include a reliance on external investment
management; a long term horizon and equity orientation; a commitment to alternative
assets; a spending rule that insulates the operating funds from the markets; and relying on
total return without regard to source of income.
As of June 30, 2001, the University's assets totaled $5.4 billion, divided into
endowment funds ($3.614 billion); the University Investment Pool ($1.364 billion);
Veritas (reserves of the University's wholly-owned insurance company) ($156.5
million); and M-Care ($125.9 million). Mr. Lundberg displayed a slide illustrating the
growth of the endowment funds from $0.1 billion to $3.6 billion over the past 20 years.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that about half of the endowment is in the
health system and that the endowment is distributed unequally among the University's
schools and colleges.


69




October Meeting, 2001


Mr. Lundberg reviewed the various features of the endowment portfolio, beginning
with the asset allocation of the $3.6 billion Long Term Portfolio, which consists of
alternative assets (26%), domestic equities (24%), fixed income securities (21%),
international equities (14%), absolute return investments (14%), and cash equivalents
(1%). Within the alternative assets category, he reviewed the asset allocation (real
estate, private equity, venture capital, energy, and distressed debt). He also compared a
model portfolio of an ideal asset allocation mix with the University's actual asset
allocation portfolio.
Mr. Lundberg then compared the portfolio's returns for Fiscal Year 2000-2001
(-5.5%) with various benchmarks. He noted that the University's returns outperformed
all of the benchmarks, and he commented on the specific performance and benchmark
comparisons for each asset class. He pointed out that the University's broad
diversification across all asset classes helped to limit the extent of its negative returns
compared with the benchmarks and noted that marketable securities had performed well
compared to the rest of the portfolio.
Over the long run, he noted, the University's investment portfolio has produced very
strong returns of 15.6% over the past 5 years. This exceeds the performance of the top
quartile of Cambridge Associates survey of about 200 endowments.
Mr. Lundberg then reviewed the performance of the University Investment Pool
(UIP), which consists of the fixed income investments of the University's construction
funds and working capital that will be used for designated purposes over the next 3 to 5
years and is valued at $1.4 billion. He noted that the UIP had underperformed the
benchmark by a small margin for one year and for three years. He then reviewed the
performance of Veritas and of M-Care.
In conclusion, Mr. Lundberg commented that the outlook for the future is for difficult
and volatile markets for the near term, but over the longer term, more normal conditions
will return and investors will be rewarded for prudent risk-taking. The University's
approach in this environment will be to continue to pursue a coherent and diversified
investment strategy, to focus on the long term, and to seek to generate positive relative
and absolute returns.
In response to a question from Regent Newman, Executive Vice President Kasdin
said that compared to other universities during the past year, the University was in the
third quartile. The goal is to be in the second quartile over the long term.
Consent Agenda
Minutes.  Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the
September 20, 2001 regular meeting and the September 28, 2001 special meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Plant Extension,
Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and the Regents Report on Non-competitive
Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources, June 21, 2001-September 21, 2001.
Regarding the Plant Extension Report, he noted that the Burton Tower renovation has
been completed in a spectacular fashion.
Litigation Report. The Regents received the Litigation Report.


70




"ctober MIreeting, 20011


Research Report.     Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for September 1-September 30, 2001. He noted that research expenditures
for the first quarter of the year are 12.8% higher than for the same period the previous
year and research awards are up 65%, resulting in $120 million more during the first
quarter of this year than the first quarter a year ago. The awards are distributed broadly
across campus, with significant amounts received by the Medical School, ISR, and the
Department of Physics.
University of Michigan Health System. There was no report from the University
of Michigan Health System.
Division of Student Affairs. No report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little noted that he had completed
one year as chancellor of the Dearborn campus and noted that he is developing a
five-year plan for the campus. He also described a collaborative grant recently received
by his campus in the area of organ transplantation.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas commented that the Regents and
president had received gifts of CD recordings of the Flint Chamber Singers and the Flint
Gospel Choir.
MSA Report. MSA president Matt Nolan referred to the monthly MSA report in
the agenda and noted that MSA has planned a ballot initiative seeking approval to
increase the student fee by $1.00, to $6.63 per student. If approved, the additional
income of $73,000 will be earmarked specifically for funding of student groups. He also
commented that a major focus of his presidency will be gaining approval of creating a
"fall study break" by replacing classes on the Monday and Tuesday of the third week of
October with study days. To partially compensate for the reduction in class time, the
proposal also includes starting classes on the Tuesday after Labor Day instead of the
Wednesday after Labor Day. Finally, he noted that students have a strong desire to
participate in a significant way in the presidential search.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for September 2001.
Ajinomoto Company, Inc., Kawasaki, Japan
for research in the College of Pharmacy......................................... $ 10,000
Alcoa, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 30,000
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, Inc., Washington, D.C.
for research in the Transportation Research Institute............................... 360,000
Robert I. Alpern, Bloomfield Hills
420 shares of Philip Morris Companies, Inc., common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Funds in the Medical School........................ 19,982
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 53,870
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 103,888
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School............................................... 15,000
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Social Work.......................................... 15,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Medical School, and
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 28,000


71




October Meeting, 2001


Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the School of Public Health, and
the  Institute  for Social Research................................................  104,992
Azalea Foundation, Saint Simons Island, Georgia
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Barr Group, Inc., Southfield
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 50,000
Harvey G. Behner, Sylvania, Ohio
for the H & J Behner Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.. 20,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship................................. 58,750
Michael 0. Bice, Saint Petersburg, Florida
260 shares of Marsh and McLennan Companies common stock
for the Avedis Donabedian Memorial Scholarship in the School of Public Health........ 25,396
Menefee D. Blackwell Estate
for the Stephen M. Blackwell Scholarship in the Law School.......................... 30,000
Brentlinger Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 20,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for chemistry fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 35,000
Brush Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for scholarships in the School of Public Health.................................... 21,000
Ara C. Car Estate
for the Ara C. Cary Fellowship in the School of Social Work......................... 50,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 21,500
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group, Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.............................................  10,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts..........................................................  10,000
Carl Copple, Livonia
1,703 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 48,021
Trudy Harrison Crandall, Ann Arbor
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 73,997
Jean W. Daniels Estate
for the  A lum ni A ssociation.....................................................  29,677
DCES Educational Services, Canton
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  16,000
Peter C. Dendrinos, Frankfort
for the Class of 1951 Fund in the School of Business Administration.................. 25,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Nichols Arboretum and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  35,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for the University  M usical Society..............................................  100,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Frank Family Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  10,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 12,500
General Motors Corporation, Phoenix, Arizona
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000
Kelley Hays Gilpin, Flagstaff, Arizona
for the Hays Family Endowment for Undergraduate Research in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
Glaucoma Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical S c h    o    ol............................................... 17,500
George L. Hill Trust
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 10,000
Hockaday Family Fund of the Greater Kansas City Community Foundation and
Affiliated Trust, Mission Hills, Kansas
for support of the Law  School...................................................  10,000
LaRue Tone Hosmer, Tuscaloosa, Alabama
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000


72




October Meeting, 2001


Ideation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  15,000
Immunex Corporation, Seattle, Washington
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  20,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 45,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  87,100
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music............................................... 20,000
Orpha Irwin Trust
for the Orpha L. Irwin Scholarship in the Medical School........................... 129,553
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
5,874 shares of Perrigo Company common stock
for the Susan and Michael J. Jandernoa Professorship in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 100,299
Larry L. Johnson Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 20,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School............................................... 56,018
Cleo E. Kelley Trust
for support in  the School of Education............................................ 20,578
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in  the University  Hospitals............................................ 14,398
Knapp Motors, Inc., Blissfield
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  16,000
Kramercorp, Detroit
for research  in  the  M edical School...............................................  10,000
Richard P. Kughn, Farmington Hills
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the University of Michigan- Dearborn.........................................  25,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in
the Horace H. Raclham School of Graduate Studies................................. 40,625
Lockheed Martin Missles and Space, Bay Area Chapter, Sunnyvale, California
for scholarships in the College of Engineering..................................... 10,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social W ork......................................... 29,000
Merck and Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.....................................  10,000
Michigan Fire Sprinkler Contractors, Sterling Heights
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 60,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.................. 10,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Portage
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  16,000
John C. and Sally S. Morley Family Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 50,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,575
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 20,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support of the Future Teachers Society at the University of Michigan-Flint.......... 72,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 30,000
Gregor N. Neff, New York, New York
for the Gregor N. Neff Scholarship in the Law  School............................... 15,000
John M. Olin Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the John M. Olin Faculty Fellowship at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......... 48,237
Owens-Illinois Charities Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  11,080
Frank C. Padzieski Trust
for the CASL Building Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 50,000
Mary T. Padzieski Trust
for the CASL Building Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 50,000


73




"ctober MIreeting, 20011


Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Medical School................................................ 12,000
Randall L. Pittman, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  16,000
Marian Beardslee Raymond, Dunedin, Florida
2,000 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Anson G. and Marian Beardslee Raymond Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund and
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering and the School of Education....... 81,000
Helen W. Reimer Trust
for the Irving H. Reimer Professorship in the School in Business Administration....... 606,000
P. Anthony Ridder, Woodside, California
405 shares of Knight-Ridder Inc., common stock
for Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics....................... 24,968
Joyce L. Rockafellow Estate
for Undergraduate Student Aid.................................................. 26,029
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Donald R. Shepherd Scholarship and other support in the Department of Athletics. 40,200
Lincoln R. Siegel, Chicago, Illinois
for the Lincoln Siegel Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Business Administration and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......
20,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  25,000
Richard Dale Snyder, Ann Arbor
for the Jeff Reese Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the Schools of Business Administration, Information, and Law and
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the C.S. M ott Children's Hospital............................................. 21,000
Jeffrey and Susan Stern Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the Jeffrey and Susan Kahn Stern Fund in the College of.......................... 12,500
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R., Benevolent Foundation of the Northern
Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 15,000
T/J Technologies, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Colle e of Engineering.........................................  10,000
A. Alfred Taubman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.............. 5,000,000
Robert A. Toigo Foundation, Oakland, California
for the Robert A. Toigo Foundation Fellowship in the School of
Business A dm inistration........................................................ 20,000
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center...............................................  60,000
University of Michigan Club of Toledo, Temperance
for the  Toledo  Scholarship......................................................  10,000
Noreen H. Verbrugge, Basking Ridge, New Jersey
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 12,400
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.................................... 100,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for employee matching gifts....................................................  10,587
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  242,970
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................................. 93,000
Arlo C. Wolf Estate
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................  84,895
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
calculators and a digital camera for the College of Engineering
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
twenty-two computers for the College of Engineering
Microsoft Corporation, Grove City, Ohio
computer software for the College of Engineering
Howard Wright, Waterford
eighteen Bonsai trees for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens


74




"ctober MIreeting, 20011


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Peter M. Bing, Atlanta, Georgia
Geoffrey L. Gordon, Novi
Kathy M. Hutchinson, Redmond, Washington
Balthazar Korab, Troy
Southeast Asia Art Foundation, Hill, New Hampshire
Personnel Actions.      Interim  Provost Lisa Tedesco    submitted the following
personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Bonk, Mario, Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1,
2002
Duenyas, Izak, Ph.D., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
November 1, 2001
Gutek, Barbara A., Ph.D., Professor of Psychology and Professor of Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2002
REAPPOINTMENTS )F REGULAR I NSTRCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1999-August 31, 2004
Root, Lawrence S., Ph.D., Director, Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, School of Business
Administration
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR      TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC AMINlSTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Baker, James R. Jr., Ruth Dow Doan Professor of Biologic Nanotechnology, Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Pathology, without tenure, Medical School,
also appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Fowlkes, J. Brian, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Grosh, Karl, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Katopodes, Nikolaos D., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, also appointed
Chair, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering,
October 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Krebsbach, Paul H., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, also appointed
Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Port, Friedrich Konrad, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Richards, Julia E., Associate Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with tenure, Medical
School, also appointed Associate Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public
Health, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004


75




"ctober MIreeting, 20011


APPROC)VAL OF LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIE STAINS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brown, Catherine, Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, teaching leave extended, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Gikandi, Simon E., Roberty Hayden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature and
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus extended, January 1-May 31, 2002
Terada, Rei M., Associate Professor of English Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave extended, September 1-December 31, 2001
ESTABIISHING AND lRENAMING PROFEFSSORSHIIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE, POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Named Professorship
Samuel Zell Professorship in the Economics of Risk, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
November 1, 2001
Naming Existing Professorships
Albert Clanton Spaulding Collegiate Professorship in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, November 1, 2001
Josephine Sana Collegiate Professorship in Nursing, School of Nursing, July 1, 2001
Samuel J. Eldersveld Collegiate Professorship in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, November 1, 2001
OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointment to Estabished Professorsh'p
Lie, John, Korea Foundation Professor of Korean Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Regoqintment to Established Professorship
Somerman, Martha J., William K. and Mary Anne Najjar Professor, School of Dentistry, five-year term,
January 1, 2001
Other Transactions
Svejnar, Jan, transfer 25% of tenure from the School of Business Administration to the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2002
Wade, Kathleen, Assistant Dean of Hospital of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Zuiderweg, Erik R. P., Acting Chair, Biophysics Research Division, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Clements Library Associates Board of overnors
Earle, William G., retroactive, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Anderson, Elizabeth H., student representative, November 1, 2001-October 31, 2003, vice Gregory F.
Smolar, term expired
School o[3tatural Resources and Environment Executive Committee
Brown, Daniel G., retroactive, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2003, vice Joan I. Nassauer, term expired
Grese, Robert E., retroactive, June 1, 2001-May 31, 2003, vice Donald R. Zak, term expired


76




"ctober MIreeting, 20011


Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Tedesco submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abner, Heather, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Adams, Jessica, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Altermatt, Thomas W., Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Amau, Juan, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Avi-yonah, Orli K., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Babaie, Sussan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Banerjee, Moulinath, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Barker, Jessica L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Barrieux, Chantal, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Beleh, Mustapha A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, September 1, 2001-August 31,
2002
Bendacha, Rachid, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Benham, Kevin, M.Arch, Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Bernstein, Rebecca A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Bhise, Rekha V., M.S., Lecturer in Medical School Administration, Medical School,
August 15, 2001-August 14, 2004
Biasiotti, Claudio, M.D., Lecturer II in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Bobichon, Marie-Pierre, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Bolt, Michael D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Bolton, Jonathan H., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Bouchey, Heather A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Bush, Philip, B.M., Assistant Professor of Music (Piano), School of Music, September 1, 2001-May 31,
2004
Chari, Anusha, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Chiravuri, S. Devi, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 1, 2001-August 31,
2002
Choi, Wooyoung, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Comazzi, John J., M. Arch, Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Cowdery, Joan E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Care, UM-Flint School of Health Care
Professions and Studies, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Curlew, Douglas J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
de los Santos Plata, Juan C., B.M., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Duggan, Brett, M.A., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004


77




"ctober MIreeting, 20011


Duverger, Sophie, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Eksioglu, Mahmut, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2003
El-Ashry, Dorraya, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Feresu, Shingairai A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Center for Afroamerican and African Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Filgueras-Gomez, Maria-Luisa, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Fisher, Marjorie M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Flynn, Michael P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College
of Engineering, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Forrester, Kathleen A., M.S., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Gaggio, Dario, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Gemeda, Guluma, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Africana Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Ghahranmani, Saeed Y., M.A., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Graebner, Lars, Dip.Ing., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Guerra, Ingrid J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
September 1, 2001-April 30, 2004
Gusain, Lakhan, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Culture, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Gwerder, Michael, M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Hacking, Paul A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Hasselbrink, Ernest F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Holmes, Megan L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Hooper, Cameron G., M.Comm., Lecturer in Accounting, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Horja, Richard P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Horodowich, Elizabeth A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies and Lecturer II in History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
House, Christopher L., M.A., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Itani, Abdul Rahman M., M.S., Lecturer in Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Joseph, Benjamin S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Kaminskas, Kristina, B.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Kiesbye, Stefan M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Kietzman, Jennifer W., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Kondo, Junko, M.A., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Kostrzewa, Amy J., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 1, 2001-August 31,
2002
Laken, Valerie, B.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Lawrence, Vicki, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Lee, Gloria D., M.A., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002


78




"ctober MIreeting, 20011


Li, Pei-jing, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Li, Weiqi, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Liefer, Allison, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Lin, Yi, M.S., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Lokam, Satyanarayana, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Lu, Wei, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Lundin, Deanne, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Maldonado, Georgina, Lican, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Marquez, Aurelia Carranza, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Matice, Melinda S., M.A., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
McElroy, Tricia, M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Meek, Barbara A., M.A., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Meisler, Richard A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Moreno, Sergio H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Murphy, Timothy M., M.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1,2001-May 31,
2004
Nagarajan, Anuradha, Ph.D., Lecturer in Corporate Strategy and International Business, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Nan, Bin, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, September 1, 2001-May 31,
2004
Pagni, Charlotte F., M.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-May 31, 2002
Pandian, Shunmugham, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Engineering, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Pappu, Rekha, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Pardales, Michael J., M.A., Lecturer in Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Paschoud, Adrieu, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Perlman, Julia B., M.A., Lecturer II in History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Ponyicsanyi, John, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Presa-Terron, Isabel M., B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Ramey, Dawn M., M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Ramirez, Susanna Coll, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Roitman, Michael, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Row, Jess, B.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Rutowski, Patricia A., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2001-May 31,
2002
Shakespeare, Catherine M., B.A., Lecturer in Accounting, School of Business Administration,
September 13, 2001-August 31, 2002
Sialm, Clemens, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004


79




"ctober MIreeting, 20011


Sobieszczyk, Teresa R., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Sojo, Marta Cruz, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Somerville, Rachel S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Stein, Daniel, M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Steuer, Daniel, Teacher, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Struble, Laura M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Szabo, Veronika, M.A., Lecturer III in Judaic Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Takacs, James, Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
September 1, 2001-April 30, 2004
Tolbert, Margaret M., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2001-May 31,
2002
Tu, Shu-Yi, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Vega-Duran, Raquel, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
von Buelow, Peter D., M.S., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Von Herder, Dorothea M., M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Warsi, Mahammad J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Culture, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Wilson, Jessica W., B.A., Instructor in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Wu, Xiaogang, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Zaharopol, Radu, Ph.D., Lecturer II Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Zayas, Leopoldo A. Pando, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Zhang, Jianzhi, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Zochowski, Michal R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Avi-yonah, Orli K., from Lecturer II in Women's Studies to Lecturer II in Psychology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2002
Bogart, Pamela S., Lecturer II in French, English Language Institute, also appointed Lecturer I in French,
Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Brook, Robert, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-July 31, 2002
Girsch, Elizabeth S., from Lecturer II in English Language Institute, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, to Lecturer in Education, College of Engineering, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Jensen, Michael, from Lecturer in Business Administration to Assistant Professor of Corporate
Strategy and International Business, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2001-May
31, 2004
Jose-Kampfner, Christina, Lecturer II in Spanish also appointed Lecturer II in Women' s Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Kales, Helen C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Kirshner, Andrew, from Lecturer II in Music, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Assistant
Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004


80




"ctober MIreeting, 20011


Mitnick, Keith P., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Ramsburgh, Stephen R., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical
School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Sanders, Jerry D., Assistant Professor of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, also
appointed Assistant Professor of Health Care, UM-Flint College of Health Professions and
Studies,
November 1-December 31, 2001
Sisson, Thomas H., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Zuiderweg, Erik R. P., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor
of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Acting
Chair, Biophysics Research Division, Medical School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional Planning, School
of Natural Resources and Environment, September 1-December 31, 2001
Fortner, Richard W., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Flint School of
Management, September 1-December 31, 2001
Getty, Ward D., Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2001
Gold, Martin, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Gray, Donald H., Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological
Sciences, College of Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2001
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Energy and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering, September 1-October 31, 2001
Krimm, Samuel, Professor Emeritus of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor Emeritus of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Livermore, Shaw Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Mann, Richard D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Professor Emeritus of Religion, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Oberman, Harold A., Professor Emeritus of Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2001-August 31, 2003
Palmer, Warren G., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and Associate
Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information and Library Studies,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Pastalan, Leon A., Professor Emeritus of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1-December 31, 2001
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Ribbens, William B., Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Shafter, Edward M. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities, College of Engineering,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Whitehouse, Frank Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical
School, September 1-December 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alexander, Neil B., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, duty off
campus, March 1-May 31, 2002
Boyd, Eddie L., Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2003


81




October Meeting, 2001


Hubbs, Nadine M., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Theory), School of Music, and Assistant
Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Krisch, Alan D., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Meisels, Samuel J., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Ross, Marlon B., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
outside teaching leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Stillman, Amy K., Associate Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, School of
Music, and Associate Professor of American Culture, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-June 30, 2002
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Armstrong, Wendy, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2001
Ball, Aretha, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, August 31, 2001
Barcelona, Michael J., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, August 31, 2002
Bisognano, John D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 12, 2001
Carty, Linda E., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
June 30, 2001
Deretic, Dusanka D., Assistant Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
September 4, 2001
Deretic, Vojo, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School,
September 4, 2001
Hillemeier, A. Craig, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical
School, September 29, 2001
Hsieh, Miao-Ling, Lecturer II in Chinese Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2001
Lawrence, Ruth J., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2001
Lu, Biao, Assistant Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration, September 4, 2001
Morgan, Myra, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 7, 2001
Taussig, Ronald, Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, September 4,
2001
Retired
Boehm, Susan, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, November 13, 2001
Taylor, Carol L., Lecturer in Communications, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, June 30, 2001
Term Completed
Korahashi,Fumi, Lecturer II in Sumerian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted for adoption three
retirement memoirs.
Charles J. Krause, M.D., professor of otorhinolaryngology, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 2001, after a highly productive career.
A native   of Iowa, Dr. Krause earned his B.A. and M.D. degrees from the State
University of Iowa in 1959 and 1962, respectively. He was an intern at Philadelphia
General Hospital from 1962-63, and from 1963-65 he served at the 3510th USAF
Hospital at Randolph Air Force Base. He then undertook residency training at the
University of Iowa from 1965-69, and from 1969-77 Dr. Krause was a faculty member in
the Department of Otolaryngology and Maxillofacial Surgery at the University of Iowa.
He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1977 as professor of otorhinolaryngology
and chair of the Department of Otorhinolaryngology and served as chair until 1992. In


82




October Meeting, 2001


1986 Dr. Krause was named assistant dean for clinical affairs at the Medical School and
chief of clinical affairs at the University of Michigan Hospitals. He was appointed senior
associate dean for clinical affairs at the Medical School in 1992. He served as senior
associate hospital director for medical affairs from 1995-96 and returned to clinical
practice in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology in 1996.
Dr. Krause served with distinction as a clinician, faculty member, and senior
hospital administrator. He was regularly listed as one of the best doctors in America and
was widely sought after nationally and internationally as a speaker. His clinical expertise
focused on head and neck cancer and facial plastic reconstructive surgery. He served as
president of the American Board of Otolaryngology, the American Academy of
Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, the American Academy of Facial Plastic and
Reconstructive Surgery, and the American Society for Head and Neck Surgery.
In addition to his clinical work, Dr. Krause was extremely active in education in the
humanities. He established the Barbara and Charles Krause Lectureship in Humanities in
Medicine in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology prior to his retirement. Dr. Krause
was a staunch supporter of cultural diversity.  In 1992 he established the first
departmental diversity committee and in 1999 was awarded the Harold R. Johnson
Diversity Award for his contributions to the promotion of cultural diversity in the
medical center.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service
by naming Charles J. Krause professor emeritus of otorhinolaryngology.
Lee H. Somers, Ph.D., lecturer and associate research scientist in the Department of
Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of Engineering, assistant professor of
kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, and diving safety coordinator in the Department of
Occupational Safety and Environmental Health, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 2001.
Professor Somers received his B.S. (1961) and M.S. (1965) degrees from the
University of Illinois and his Ph.D. degree in 1969 from the University of Michigan. He
joined the faculty of the Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences as a
lecturer and associate research scientist in 1969.
Professor Somers is an internationally recognized expert in underwater technology
education and research, diving accident management and analysis, and scientific diving
education and research methods. He is the author of numerous publications on diving,
and his work in the area of mixed gas diving, especially the use of enriched air nitrox, has
been a major contribution to the diving community.
A hallmark of Professor Somer's activities has always been the active involvement
of students. He has also maintained an ongoing service program to provide information
to citizens, diving instructors, and law enforcement agencies on diving issues. Professor
Somers has served on numerous national and international boards and committees.
The Regents now salute this dedicated researcher and educator for his many years of
service by naming Lee H. Somers associate research scientist emeritus and assistant
professor emeritus of kinesiology.
John W. Thomas, Ph.D., professor of health management and policy, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 2001, after a productive career as teacher and
researcher.


83




ct ber Meeting, 20I1


Professor Thomas earned his B.M.E. degree from Georgia Institute of Technology in
1965 and his M.B.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Pennsylvania in 1971 and
1977, respectively. He joined the faculty of the School of Public Health as an assistant
professor in 1977 and was promoted to associate professor in 1984 and professor in
1993.
Professor Thomas' most important contributions to the field of health policy and
management have been in the area of risk-adjustment. In a 1983 paper, he and his
colleagues argued that capitation payments for the then new Medicare HMO program
could lead to serious problems both with overpayment and denial of access unless the
payments were risk-adjusted for patients' health status. Within two years, major funding
was being provided for research that would define appropriate methods for determining
health status risk-adjustments for HMO capitation payments. In the mid-1980s Professor
Thomas conducted two comparative evaluations of methodologies for measuring the
effects of patients' differing severity levels on hospital care costs. His much-cited results
provided the first objective information on the relative value of the various commercial
risk-adjustment options then available.
In the early 1990s, quality of medical care emerged as a major policy issue. In a
1993 paper, Professor Thomas was one of the first researchers to warn that risk-adjusted
measures of hospital outcomes might not be yielding valid information on hospital
performance. Then, in a series of papers in the mid-1990s, he provided definitive
evidence that one commonly-cited measure, risk-adjusted readmission rate, was
completely useless as an indicator of hospital quality. A 1999 publication showed that
risk-adjusted mortality rates lacked the inherent sensitivity and specificity needed to
serve as indicators of hospital quality.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming John W. Thomas professor
emeritus of health management and policy.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for Harold K.
Jacobson, the Jesse Siddal Reeves Professor of Political Science in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and senior research scientist in the Center for Political
Studies.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the
death on August 13, 2001, of Harold K Jacobson, the Jesse Siddal Reeves Professor of
Political Science in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and senior research
scientist in the Center for Political Studies. Professor Jacobson was a man of many parts. He
was an accomplished and skilled administrator who had been chair of the Department of
Political Science, director of the Center for Political Studies, acting director of the Institute
for Social Research, and interim associate vice president for international affairs.
His extraordinary service record extended well beyond the confines of the University.
In 1995, he received the Award for International Science Cooperation of the American
Association for Advancement of Science. He was a beloved teacher at all levels, a fact
recognized by his receipt of the University's Amoco Good Teaching Award and the
Excellence in Education Award. He supervised scores of dissertations and prepared graduate
students superbly for the time when, as young faculty members, they would be doing research
without a mentor. For years, he taught the core proseminar in world politics. In addition to
undergraduate courses in international organization, he taught thousands of undergraduates
over the years in the introductory course in world politics, Political Science 160.


84




October Meeting, I201


Professor Jacobson was also a prolific scholar. He authored, edited, or co-edited a
dozen books on American foreign policy, international organization and law, and global
environmental policy. His first monograph concerning Soviet behavior in the economic and
social organs of the United Nations was a standard source on Soviet behavior in international
organizations. His textbooks in American foreign policy were widely adopted. His book on
the nuclear test ban treaty, co-authored with Eric Stein of the University of Michigan Law
School, received the University of Michigan Press award for the best book the UM Press had
published in the year the book came out. He and his former colleague, Michel Oksenberg,
produced an important study of China's growing involvement in the world economy. His last
book was a major volume co-edited with Edith Brown Weiss titled Engaging Countries:
Strengthening Compliance with International Environmental Accords. When Professor
Jacobson died, he and Charlotte Ku of the American Society of International Law were on the
verge of completing a project that addressed the crucial issue of the democratic accountability
of interventions under the auspices of international organizations.
Professor Jacobson's death has left a huge hole in all of our lives. He will be
remembered, of course, for his professional accomplishments, but mostly, he will be
remembered for who he was and how he did what he did. We all will miss him enormously.
Degrees. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the final degree lists for
the May and August 2001 commencements and changes to previously approved degree
lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that officers from the Department of
Public Safety have been experiencing extraordinary stresses during the past several
weeks, and urged members of the University community to offer their support.
Alternative Asset Commitment
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents of a recent follow-on
commitment of $25 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Berkshire Fund VI, L.P.
Sale of Gifted Real Estate
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents of the sale of 840 acres of
vacant land in Harris Township, Menominee County, Michigan, from the estate of Helen F.
Weber. The sale price of $300,000 was above the appraised value.
UMHHC Cardiology Procedures Unit Replacement Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that a certificate of need
application had been submitted to the Michigan Department of Consumer and Industry
Services for replacement of a catheterization laboratory in conjunction with the UMHHC
Cardiology Procedures Unit Replacement Project.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the following seven action requests as a group:


85




October Meeting, 2001


State Building Authority Financing of University of Michigan-Ann Arbor Campus
Projects
The Regents adopted two resolutions for approval of construction and assurance
agreements, conveyance of properties, leases, and easement agreements, if necessary, for
the S.T. Dana Building School of Natural Resources and Environment Phase II Renovation
Project and for the Central Campus Renovation Phase II Perry Building Project. These
resolutions can be found in the appendices on pages 97 and 100.
UMHHC Cardiology Procedures Unit Expansion Project
The Regents approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers'
Cardiology Procedures Unit Expansion Project as described in the Regents Communication
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
UMHHC HomeMed Office Space Expansion Project
The Regents approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers'
HomeMed Office Space Expansion Project as described in the Regents Communication and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
UMHHC Taubman Health Center Computer Room Cooling Project
The Regents approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers'
Taubman Health Center Computer Room Cooling Project as described in the Regents
Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
UMHHC Taubman Health Center Roof Replacement Project
The Regents approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers'
Taubman Health Center Roof Replacement Project as described in the Regents
Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
UMHHC University Hospital Chiller Replacement - FY 2002
The Regents unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health
Centers' University Hospital Chiller Replacement - FY 2002 Project as described in the
Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Two License Agreements between the University of Michigan and DermaCo Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved two license agreements with DermaCo to practice and commercialize inventions
developed by University of Michigan faculty members John J. Voorhees, Gary J. Fisher,
and Sewon Kang for research sponsored in whole or part by Johnson & Johnson (J&J).
Because Drs. Voorhees, Fisher, and Kang are also partial owners of and consultants to
DermaCo Inc., these agreements fall under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


86




October Meeting, 2001


1.   Parties to the agreements are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
DermaCo Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Field of use: all fields.
Grant: Exclusive world-wide license, with a right to grant sublicenses. Term of the
agreement is for the life of the patent.
License Fee: $85,000 for License A; $15,000 for License B, both payable in
scheduled installments.
Minimum Royalties: Minimum annual royalty payments of $21,250 for License A
and $3,750 for License B. Minimum royalties are creditable against royalty due.
Patent Costs: All current and future patent costs will be paid by DermaCo.
Equity: In License A, 22.5% to be taken by the University of Michigan in DermaCo
at fund closing of $2,000,000. One-half of this equity (11.25%) will be immediately
transferred to J&J upon receipt by Michigan.  Equity is subject to dilution
corresponding to that of the founders. No equity will be transferred to Michigan or
J&J in License B.
Royalties: Terms included in each license: 2.5% of net sales with an opportunity to
amend the license to differentiate rates by type of Product before June 30, 2002;
20% of Gross Sublicensing Revenues, anti-stacking provision.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the licenses. Provisions requiring sublicensing to J&J companies
by DermaCo are included in License A.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Voorhees, Fisher, and Kang arise from their
ownership of equity in DermaCo Inc. They have waived any personal participation in
the sharing of revenues received by the University from the company.
Subcontract Agreement from Nanobio Corporation to the University of Michigan
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement with Nanobio Corporation ("Company") to
perform research with funding received by the Company from the Michigan Life Sciences
Corridor Fund. Because James R. Baker, Jr. is both an owner of the Company and an
employee of the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Nanobio Corporation.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. Kent Johnson, M.D., will
be the principal investigator for the project at the University, which is to be
conducted over a three-year period at an estimated total cost of $85,504 including
indirect cost at 25% (the rate applicable to the MLSCF). Approval has been obtained
for the use of animals in this study.
3.   Dr. Baker's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of Nanobio Corporation.
He will not participate in the project as a University employee.
Subcontract Agreement from the University of Michigan to Vanderbilt University
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved a subcontract agreement from the University of Michigan to Vanderbilt
University to support collaborative activities there of Dr. Tony Brown. Because Dr.
Brown will also maintain an adjunct assistant research scientist position at the University
of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Vanderbilt University.


87




October Meeting, 2001


2.  Under the project a total subcontract of $29,933 is anticipated to cover the period
September 1, 2001 through May 31, 2002. The University's standard subcontract
provisions will apply.
3.  Dr. Brown has no pecuniary interest in the project other than his status as a paid
faculty member at Vanderbilt University.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated:
Michael Chapman, president of the UM-Flint Student Government Council, on including the
Flint campus in the presidential selection process; Meredith Hochman (Q-Vis), Stephen
Rassi (Rainbow Network), and Benjamin Conway (MSA LGBT Issues Commission),
students, on the University's relationship with the United Way Campaign; and Quincy
Murphy, citizen, on student housing for the Flint Campus and community outreach in the City
of Flint.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Audit Report and Discussion
Executive Vice President Kasdin introduced University of Michigan staff members
who had assisted in preparation of the audit report. He also commented on the upcoming
retirement of Fred White following 26 years of service and acknowledged his many
contributions over the years. A round of applause followed.
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that he has asked the auditors to examine
two auxiliary activities each year in an attempt to ensure that all facets of the University
move towards best practices; this year's studies were done on the University of Michigan
Press and Student Publications. Comments and responses on these audits will be
reported next month; they have no impact on the University's overall financial health.
The following PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC) personnel introduced themselves:
Jack McCarthy, the executive partner in charge of the firm's University of Michigan
engagement and leader of the firm's higher education practice; Darrell Burks, the overall
engagement partner; and George Johnson of George Johnson and Co., joint venture
partner. A handout was distributed as a companion to the presentation.
Mr. McCarthy stated that PWC had issued an unqualified opinion on the financial
statements and on each of the units that make up the University, which include the Board
in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, the Hospitals and Health Centers, Veritas
Insurance Corporation, and the Michigan Health Corporation. Separate reports were
issued for the Alumni Association, the William Davidson Institute, and the University
Musical Society; the report for M-Care will be submitted in February following the close
of its fiscal year in December. He reported that no material misstatements or illegal acts
were noted and that the audits did not disclose any material deficiencies in the
University's internal control structure.
He noted that the University had adopted several new standards promulgated by the
Government Accounting Standards Board (GASB) in advance of the required date, which
was a significant undertaking and demonstrated the University's leadership in this area.
He reported that as a result of the audit procedures performed, there are no matters which
came to PWC's attention that would require further communication or action by the
University's management.


88




Octo ber Meeting,  I1


Mr. McCarthy reviewed each of the required communications to the institution's
governing board that are mandated per generally accepted auditing standards. He noted
that there were no significant audit adjustments nor disagreements with the University's
management and that University management cooperated completely throughout the audit
process.
Mr. Burks then continued the presentation.   He noted that follow-up of
management's action plan and status report regarding PWCs observations and
recommendations is an ongoing part of the audit process throughout the year. He then
reviewed the changes to the GASB requirements and their effect on the University.
Executive Vice President Kasdin thanked Associate Vice President Tim Slottow for his
leadership on the conduct of the audit.
University of Michigan Financial Statements
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2001.
The meeting was adjourned at 3:40 p.m.
Friday, October 19, 2001
The Regents convened at 9:30 a.m. Present were President Bollinger and Regents
Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and Taylor. Also present
were Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin,
Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers,
Interim Provost and Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and
Vice President Wilbanks. Regent White participated by telephone; Chancellor Mestas
and Executive Vice President Omenn were absent.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 2002
Regent Newman moved approval of a traditional, 2-day, 11-meeting-per-year
schedule for the 2002 calendar year. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously. The following schedule was set for 2002:
January 17-18
February 14-15
March 14-15
April 18-19
May 16-17 (Held at UM-Dearborn)
June 20-21
July 18-19
September 19-20
October 17-18 (Held at UM-Flint)
November 14-15
December 12-13


89




October Meeting, 2001


Interim President
Regent Deitch commented that President Bollinger had been offered and had accepted
the presidency of Columbia University. He said that "working with you has been a great
pleasure and a great honor. You have done a wonderful job. We wish you were staying,
and we wish you good luck and Godspeed in your new position."
He observed that now it was time to move on and build on the accomplishments of
President Bollinger and the executive officers, deans, and faculty and work "with speed
and thoughtfulness" to elect a new president. The first order of business in that process is
to choose an interim president. Regent Deitch nominated B. Joseph White as interim
president, effective January 1, 2002. He noted that Professor White is the former dean of
the School of Business Administration, Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor of
Leadership in Management Education, and Professor of Business Administration. Regent
Newman seconded the motion.
Statement by Regent McGowan
Regent McGowan made the following statement:
"I greatly regret the loss to this University represented by Lee
Bollinger's departure. As president, he has certainly led, putting in place both
people and programs that illuminate our values. The new leadership will be
asked to commit to advancing those decisions that he and we have made over
the past several years. It's been a pure pleasure for me to serve on this board
with Lee as president. Over the course of my own professional life I have
worked with a few wise and great leaders who are also thoughtful and kind
people. This man ranks high among them.
But we as a University and as a board must today begin the processes of
selecting an interim president and designing a search process for a new and
excellent president. I am pleased and not surprised that we have in Joe White
an individual on this campus who is clearly well-prepared to step in and serve
as our interim president. We have many distinguished academic leaders among
our current and past deans, and he is certainly among them. His contributions
as dean of the School of Business Administration over two five-year terms
extended well beyond the responsibilities of that office. He is greatly respected
among the other deans and members of the faculty, and many speak of his
commitment to this University, to his pragmatic wisdom, and to his ability to
motivate thoughtful discussion. These abilities in an interim president will
serve Michigan well.
What concerns me deeply, however, is the proposal to depart from our
long-standing established precedent of selecting as interim president someone
who had no intention of seeking to become president beyond the interim period.
Professor White would like to reserve into the future his decision on whether or
not to become a candidate, and to me this raises two important issues. First of
all, over the next several months, the interim president must be fully engaged
with the responsibilities and tough decisions that we expect of a chief
executive. Real progress at Michigan must be made. Decisions should be
made forthrightly and courageously, and they must be universally understood


90




"ctqober Meetinitg, 200I1I


to advance the lofty goals of a great university. Second, this proposal could
seriously compromise the credibility of our selection process. The design of
our search process must be fully credible to the University community, and this
can occur only if we create the largest possible pool of excellent candidates.
We have been advised that in any presidential selection process, the
best candidates are not volunteers, and our effort must be 95% recruitment and
5% selection. As we have seen from search processes across the country,
academic officers at one university actively seeking to leave another university
expose themselves to considerable risks.  Their loyalties to their existing
institutions can be called into question, and their candidacies may destabilize
their positions of leadership on their own campuses. Likewise, potential
candidates from within the University must have the maximum incentive to
apply.
We must do nothing to limit the candidate pool when we should be
drawing from the very best and brightest both outside and within the
University. The next president of this university must emerge from a process
that is credible to all concerned: faculty, staff students, alumni. And in the
first instance, that is possible only if it is credible to the potential candidates
themselves. I believe the presence of an interim president who is also a
candidate for the permanent position will have a chilling effect on the entry of
many outstanding candidates.
The selection process that we went through five years ago was not only
exhaustive, but it was exhausting. It took some personal toll on all of us who
went through it. I would hope it could be shorter this time around. But an
open, nation-wide search for the best possible president did, I am convinced,
produce the best possible president. I am proud to have played a part in that
success; the University of Michigan deserves no less.
For these reasons I will vote against the proposal to select as interim
president someone who has not ruled out the possibility of seeking the
presidency itself I hope my fellow Regents, Professor White, and the rest of
the University community will understand that my position is based on
conviction but not on any concern about his abilities to do this job."
Statement by Regent Maynard
Regent Maynard made the following statement:
"This will not be the last time I will have a chance to thank Lee for his
five years of presidency. I just want to say that you've given this University
leadership and vision, and you will be very missed.
My no vote today will not be a reflection of my opinion of Dean White. I
have the highest respect for him and know that he has the skills and talents to
ably serve the University. And I have had the opportunity during the last few
years to serve with him as a member of the Ginsberg Center Board, and I have
been very impressed with the work you've done on that board. My no vote is
rather a belief that our presidential search would be a better one if our interim


91




October Meeting, 2001


president might not be a candidate for the interim position, and Dean White
has not yet decided whether he will or will not seek the permanent job.
I experienced the search on the Flint campus and believe that there was a
negative impact on that campus when the interim head sought also the
permanent appointment. I have also listened to those much more experienced
in searches than I who say that our ability to attract the best candidates can be
influenced negatively by our having an interim inside candidate. I know that
Dean White and my colleagues, as I, all support the most open and most
inclusive process in seeking a new president. My no vote reflects my wish that
there could be just one more element in that search process. Thank you."
Comments by Regent Deitch
Regent Deitch commented:
"The good news is that all eight of us recognize Dean White's enormous
talent and commitment to this institution and his ability to run it well.
Reasonable people can differ about the best way to accomplish a goal.
Replacing you, Lee, won't be easy, because you've been a wonderful president.
But the thing is, you've been the president of the greatest university in America,
which helps anyone who sits in that position. And I believe there is zero
empirical evidence that we will not be able to attract a good candidate pool
because we have elected an interim president who has not yet decided whether
he will be a candidate for the permanent position.
Everyone needs to remember that this is the University of Michigan, and
the privilege and the opportunity of sitting in the presidency of this university I
believe is such a compelling opportunity that there must be three or five women
or men in America, in the world, who would be willing to throw their hats in the
ring for this position.
Second, we live in a world where people are very glib. My interactions
with Joe White have shown that he is not a glib man. We talked about this
question of whether he would decide and declare that he would not be a
candidate for the permanent position, and he said, 'Mary and I simply haven't
decided.' He went on to say, 'We are people who make commitments carefully
and keep them faithfully.' And the meaning of that is this: It would have been
easy for Dean White to say he didn't want the position and then to have
lightening strike afew months later and have him change his mind.
What we are doing is starting this position with a 'what you see is what
you get' level of integrity and the future will take care of itself. We have said
we are committed to an inclusive, national search to seek out the best person to
replace Lee Bollinger, and we will do that.
In selecting Joe White, we are picking somebody who is perfectly
positioned to pick up Lee Bollinger's mantle. Joe White served as dean of one
of our important schools, one of our large schools, for ten years, with
enormous credibility and success. He had just now given up those duties and
was in the process of going back to teaching that he loved very much. So here
was a person who knows the University, who knows the players, who is


92




dcober Meeting, 200


committed to the goals, and who has the time and is willing to make the
commitment, and this is going to best keep the train running on time and
progress going forward. "
Regent Brandon stated, "I would like to completely and emphatically associate
myself with Regent Deitch. I think Joe White will do a fabulous job, and I think his
honesty and straightforward approach in the way he's dealt with this issue gives me a
great sense of comfort. And I also do not believe that the University of Michigan will
have difficulties finding highly qualified and interested candidates for the job of
president."
Regent Taylor said that "I join David in wanting to associate myself with the
remarks of Larry. And in addition, we're looking at an interim that will probably serve
for a period of six months or possibly longer. I believe that if at all possible, we should
have an interim president who has all of the characteristics —the background, the
education, the experience —to be the permanent president. And if you are lucky enough to
have such a person available, I just cannot understand why you would want to disqualify
that person from subsequent consideration. For all of those reasons, I think Joe White is
the right person, and I am happy that he is not making any decisions at this time."
Regent Newman associated herself with the remarks of Regents Deitch, Brandon,
and Taylor. She commented, "We set out to find the best possible interim president, and I
think we did that. Because of that, I agree with Regent Taylor. I would ask that Joe and
Mary make that decision in their own time. If and when they do, whatever they decide,
we will go through whichever process fits that decision. I look forward to working with
Joe. Joe, I'm thrilled that you agreed to do this, and we're very lucky that you had the
time to do it. We appreciate your giving up your sabbatical year and your preparation for
teaching to take the time off and interrupt this position."
Regent Deitch called the question. The vote was taken, and the motion to appoint B.
Joseph White as interim president was approved, with Regents Brandon, Deitch,
Horning, Newman, Taylor, and White voting in favor, and Regents Maynard and
McGowan opposed.
Regent McGowan moved that the appointment of Professor White as interim
president be considered unanimous. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was
approved.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger thanked the University and the Regents for permitting him to serve
as president during the past nearly five years. He noted that he had been a professor at the
University of Michigan for 26 years, and for 12 of those years had served in administration
as dean and then as president. He continued,
"What distinguishes this great public university from virtually all others
is the shared commitment among the faculty to be part of the highest
intellectual and artistic traditions and to bring that commitment to the
classroom and to the broader public. This is a truly remarkable achievement in
a democratic society, and it is a standing refutation of those... who have
argued that the highest culture could only survive in an aristocratic society.


93




October Meeting, 2001


This special commitment, however, is forever fragile and must be
continually nurtured over time. To be sure, not everyone can be expected to
perform at the highest level of intellectual and artistic creativity. Just like not
every student can be in the top half of the class. But it is critical that there be
a clear-sighted appreciation of quality, a yearning for it, an evident respect for
those in our midst who do achieve it, and a joy in being associated with it. It is
my most fervent hope for the University of Michigan that it will continue to
embrace and symbolize these characteristics, and I will leave with full
confidence that it will."
President Bollinger then recognized the contributions of the colleagues who have
served with him, especially "the extraordinary group of vice presidents and chancellors
who have come to serve this institution." He commented briefly on the contributions of
each of the vice presidents that has served during his tenure. He also thanked his wife,
Jean Magnano Bollinger, for her service to her contributions to the University and the
community.
Finally, President Bollinger noted that he had known Joe White for over a decade
and had served with him as a dean. "I know him as a loyal, knowledgeable, imaginative
administrator and member of this community. He likes high standards, he sets high
standards for himself, and he sets out in a determined way to meet them." He noted that
he had also come to know Joe and his wife, Mary, through their daughters, and through
that, he knows "that both he and Mary are very good people." He said he would do
everything he could to make the transition seamless, and that he was sure the University
would be exceptionally well-served by Dean White.
Comments by Joe White
A standing ovation followed and Professor White made the following comments:
"Thank you, Lee, for those kind remarks. This is a very memorable
moment for me and Mary. When we grew up in Kalamazoo the University of
Michigan seemed 10,000 miles away. It was a place where only the very best
had the opportunity to get the great education. Great health care was offered
to the comfort of so many people in our area. Great athletics that excited us
all. And it's fair to say that I accept and we accept this invitation from you
with a great sense of gratitude and with a measure of awe also.
I want to thank the Regents for your confidence. I also want to thank you
for your public commitment to conducting an open, thorough, inclusive search
for the next president of the University, because it's crucial to insure the very
best leadership for the institution that we love going forward. I want to thank
you, Lee, and Jean, for all you've done for our University. I simply couldn't
imagine a betterfive-year presidential term than you've provided. We're going
to miss you deeply, and you know that. Among your many accomplishments,
you've set a wonderful tone on campus: a tone of inclusion, a tone of
intellectual inquiry, a tone of arts appreciation, a tone of innovation. And I
publicly want to thank you so much and wish you the best in the years to come.
My responsibilities as interim president are very clear. To work with the
Regents, the executive officers, the other leaders of the university during a time


94




October Meeting, 2001


of transition to insure the continued excellence of our institution in all its
dimensions and also to demonstrate rock-solid commitment to the vital
initiatives that have been set in motion during Lee's presidency. Among these
are the life sciences, arts and culture, affirmative action and diversity, and the
upcoming fundraising campaign about which I have a great deal of enthusiasm.
I think we're going to do very well. Those are institutional commitments, and
our job working together will be to insure that we make measurable progress
on allfronts."
Dean White stated that he intends to dedicate his period of service as interim
president to the alumni of the University who died in the atrocities on September 11,
2001. He named the several victims he knew personally. He noted that "each of us has
sought since September 11 to find a way to serve our country during these difficult and
troubling times. The Regents have presented me with my way, and that is, to honor these
alums, all who were lost on September 11, by doing the very best job that I can to serve
the University that we and all of these alumni have loved so much over the years."
A round of applause followed.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at about 10:30 a.m. The
next meeting will take place November 15-16, 2001.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


95




October Meeting, 2001


96




OCTOBER MEETING, 2001
APPENDIX A
RESOIUTION OF TH      REGENS F     THE  UNIVERSITY OF    ICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION ASSURANCE AGREEMENT,
A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY, A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENTS
IF NECESSARY FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN - ANN ARBOR S.T. DANA
BUILDING - SCHOOL CF NATUIRAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENT PHASE II
RENOVATION PROJECT
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a
form of construction and completion assurance agreement (the "Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement"), by and among the State Building Authority (the
"Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of the University of
Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "Educational Institution"),
providing for the rights, duties and obligations of the Authority, the State and the
Educational Institution with respect to the Educational Institution's Ann Arbor S.T. Dana
Building - School of Natural Resources and Environment Phase II Renovation Project and
the site therefor (the "Facility") during the construction, renovation and/or equipping of the
Facility and prior to the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (b) the conveyance of
the Facility to the Authority, (c) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the Authority, the
Educational Institution and the State, for the purpose of leasing the Facility to the State and
the Educational Institution and (d) an easement and/or other agreement (the "Easement
Agreement") between the Authority and the Educational Institution, if necessary and/or
desirable in connection with access, parking, utilities, pedestrians, encroachments, and/or
other matters pertaining to the interactions between the Facility and real property owned by
the Educational Institution, and (ii) providing for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and pursuant to the provisions
of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities,
and sites therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the
"State Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been maintained and created pursuant to
Sections 4 and 5 of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority
finance the acquisition, construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in
consideration of (i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter
upon the site of the Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation
and/or equipping, (ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the
oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and (iii) the Educational
Institution conveying the Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion,
and the Authority is willing to provide such financing in consideration of the items
described above; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority acquire the
Facility on or prior to the date of its completion, and lease the same to the State and the
Educational Institution, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and lease the
same to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the Educational Institution, the Facility
will be constructed by the Educational Institution on behalf of the Authority, and it is
intended that the Site and the Facility be conveyed to the Authority by the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to
the Educational Institution and the State is necessary in order for the State and the
Educational Institution to carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide
necessary services to the people of the State as mandated or permitted by constitution and


97




October Meeting 2001 - Appendix A


law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical
means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the
Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of
the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and
serving in each house and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or
created pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in
addition, the Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by
its authorized officer and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Educational Institution
authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a
public road to the Facility over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that
the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for
future use certain easements through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational
Institution will require an agreement to share a common structural wall, (iv) the Authority
will require an easement over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the
Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the
Facility, and/or (v) the Authority and/or the Educational Institution will require other
easements and/or agreements pertaining to the Facility and/or real property owned by the
Educational Institution (such as, but without limitation, easements and/or agreements
pertaining to pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or encroachments), then in order to meet
any such requirement, it may be necessary for an authorized officer of the Educational
Institution to approve an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements to provide for such
easements and/or agreements;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THAT:
1.  The plans for the Facility, as filed with the Educational Institution, are hereby
approved.
2.  The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is
hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the
Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as
Exhibit A for and on behalf of the Educational Institution. Such officer is hereby authorized
to approve such changes in and modifications to the Construction and Completion
Assurance Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the Educational Institution.
3.  The conveyance of the Site and the Facility to the Authority in accordance with
the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement is hereby approved, and the then
seated President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Educational Institution are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver a warranty
deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such
conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.
4.  The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in
substantially the form attached as Exhibit C, and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver the Lease in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C for and on behalf of the
Educational Institution and such officer is hereby designated as an authorized officer of the
Educational Institution for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officer is hereby
authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially
alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action
submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officer is not hereby
authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the
description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of the Educational
Institution contained in the Lease approved herein. The Educational Institution hereby
determines that the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the
authorized officer is hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual


98




October Meeting, 2001 - Appendix A


amounts determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $1,187,000
in any 12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
5.  If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and if the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution determine that (i) the
Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the
Educational Institution will require for future use certain easements through the Facility,
(iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will require an agreement to share a
common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in
connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, and/or (v) the Authority and/or the
Educational Institution will require other easements and/or agreements pertaining to the
Facility and/or real property owned by the Educational Institution (such as, but without
limitation, easements and/or agreements pertaining to pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or
encroachments), then such officer is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver
an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements if necessary in order to meet any such
requirement.
6.  The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational
Institution is hereby authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions,
including, without limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority
and the State and signing certificates, documents or other instruments, on behalf of the
Educational Institution, as he deems necessary or desirable under the circumstances to
accomplish the purposes of the transactions authorized in this Resolution.
7.  The Educational Institution further confirms its obligations to perform the
duties and obligations specified in the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement
(only upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and the
Lease (only upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and
acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the
Educational Institution without consideration upon termination of the Lease.  The
Educational Institution hereby recognizes that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if
title to the Facility would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
8.  The Educational Institution recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of
the Facility in an amount not in excess of $11,249,900.
9.  All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
10. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


99




OCTOBER MEETING, 2001
APPENDIX B
RESOIUTION OF TH     REGENTS OF THE   UNIVERSITY OF MTO ICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION ASSURANCE AGREEMENT,
A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY, A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT,
IF NECESSARY FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICII       AN-ANN ARBOR CENTRAL CAMPUS
RENOVATION PHIASE II PERRY BUILDI:lNG
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a
form of construction and completion assurance agreement (the "Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement"), by and among the State Building Authority (the
"Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of the University of
Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "Educational Institution"),
providing for the rights, duties and obligations of the Authority, the State and the
Educational Institution with respect to the Educational Institution's Ann Arbor Central
Campus Renovation Phase II Perry Building and the site therefor (the "Facility") during the
construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility and prior to the conveyance of the
Facility to the Authority, (b) the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (c) a lease (the
"Lease"), by and among the Authority, the Educational Institution and the State, for the
purpose of leasing the Facility to the State and the Educational Institution and (d) an
easement and/or other agreement (the "Easement Agreement") between the Authority and
the Educational Institution, if necessary and/or desirable in connection with access, parking,
utilities, pedestrians, encroachments, and/or other matters pertaining to the interactions
between the Facility and real property owned by the Educational Institution, and
(ii) providing for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and pursuant to the provisions
of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of
acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities,
and sites therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher education created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the
"State Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been maintained and created pursuant to
Sections 4 and 5 of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority
finance the acquisition, construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in
consideration of (i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter
upon the site of the Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation
and/or equipping, (ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the
oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and (iii) the Educational
Institution conveying the Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion,
and the Authority is willing to provide such financing in consideration of the items
described above; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority acquire the
Facility on or prior to the date of its completion, and lease the same to the State and the
Educational Institution, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and lease the
same to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the Educational Institution, the Facility
will be constructed by the Educational Institution on behalf of the Authority, and it is
intended that the Site and the Facility be conveyed to the Authority by the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to
the Educational Institution and the State is necessary in order for the State and the
Educational Institution to carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide
necessary services to the people of the State as mandated or permitted by constitution and


100




Ikctober Mreeting, 20001 - Apprendix BB


law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical
means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the
Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of
the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and
serving in each house and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or
created pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in
addition, the Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by
its authorized officer and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Educational Institution
authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a
public road to the Facility over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that
the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for
future use certain easements through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational
Institution will require an agreement to share a common structural wall, (iv) the Authority
will require an easement over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the
Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the
Facility, and/or (v) the Authority and/or the Educational Institution will require other
easements and/or agreements pertaining to the Facility and/or real property owned by the
Educational Institution (such as, but without limitation, easements and/or agreements
pertaining to pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or encroachments), then in order to meet
any such requirement, it may be necessary for an authorized officer of the Educational
Institution to approve an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements to provide for such
easements and/or agreements;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THAT:
1.  The plans for the Facility, as filed with the Educational Institution, are hereby
approved.
2.  The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is
hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the
Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as
Exhibit A for and on behalf of the Educational Institution. Such officer is hereby authorized
to approve such changes in and modifications to the Construction and Completion
Assurance Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the Educational Institution.
3.  The conveyance of the Site and the Facility to the Authority in accordance with
the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement is hereby approved, and the then
seated President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Educational Institution are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver a warranty
deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such
conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.
4.  The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in
substantially the form attached as Exhibit C, and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver the Lease in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C for and on behalf of the
Educational Institution and such officer is hereby designated as an authorized officer of the
Educational Institution for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officer is hereby
authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially
alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action
submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officer is not hereby
authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the
description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of the Educational
Institution contained in the Lease approved herein. The Educational Institution hereby
determines that the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the
authorized officer is hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual


101




October Meeting, 2001 - Appendix B


amounts determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $949,000 in
any 12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
5.  If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and if the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution determine that (i) the
Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the
Educational Institution will require for future use certain easements through the Facility,
(iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will require an agreement to share a
common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in
connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, then such officer is hereby authorized
and directed to execute and deliver an Easement Agreement if necessary in order to meet
any such requirement, and/or (v) the Authority and/or the Educational Institution will
require other easements and/or agreements pertaining to the Facility and/or real property
owned by the Educational Institution (such as, but without limitation, easements and/or
agreements pertaining to pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or encroachments), then such
officer is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver an Easement Agreement or
Easement Agreements if necessary in order to meet any such requirement.
6.  The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational
Institution is hereby authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions,
including, without limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority
and the State and signing certificates, documents or other instruments, on behalf of the
Educational Institution, as he deems necessary or desirable under the circumstances to
accomplish the purposes of the transactions authorized in this Resolution.
7.  The Educational Institution further confirms its obligations to perform the
duties and obligations specified in the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement
(only upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and the
Lease (only upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and
acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the
Educational Institution without consideration upon termination of the Lease.  The
Educational Institution hereby recognizes that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if
title to the Facility would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
8.  The Educational Institution recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of
the Facility in an amount not in excess of $8,999,900.
9.  All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
10. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


102




NOVEMBER MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, Novemb' er 15, 2001
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and
Taylor. Also present were Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Mestas,
Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Interim Provost and Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Chancellor Little was absent; Provost Simpson attended in his place. Regent White
participated in the meeting by phone.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and noted that the first item of
business would be the Annual Operating Requests to the state.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the Ann Arbor Campus for FY 2003
Interim Provost Tedesco expressed the University's gratitude to the governor, the
chairs of the appropriations committees, and the legislature for exempting education from
the recisions in the executive order announced last week. She said that the University
recognizes that the next two years will be difficult ones for the state and it is helpful to be
able to have an orderly planning process to prepare for them.
Interim Provost Tedesco observed that the key message and organizing principle of
the FY 2003 request is the same as it was for the 2002 request —consolidation and
continuing progress on the University's highest priorities. Resources will be focused on
the University's core missions and on a few vital initiatives, with the goal being to
weather the economic downturn without giving up excellence and minimizing any damage
that might occur.
Interim Provost Tedesco observed that Associate Provost Paul Courant has played
an important role in budgeting modeling and in the wide array of other concerns of the
provost's office, and that he would be addressing the board as well. She noted that the
requested 4% increase is the most modest from among the last five budget years. It
includes no funding for any special new initiatives and carries forward innovations in
undergraduate education, continued expansion and improvements in information
technology, and the Life Sciences Initiative.
She noted that the University is not being called upon to decrease its efforts on
behalf of teaching, research, or community service and outreach. The cost to the
University of performing its core missions does not decrease, she noted, and the
requested increase is far less than is needed to maintain momentum and to continue to
retain necessary faculty and support services. To maintain and enhance quality, it will be
necessary to redeploy existing resources from lower priority activities to those of higher
priority, as has been a regular practice in past years.
Interim Provost Tedesco noted that it is against these thematic budget parameters
that deans, directors, and other unit leaders are preparing their program directions, budget


103




November Meeting, 2()01


priorities, and reductions for next year. The provost and administration are working with
the academic leadership to ensure that regardless of the state budget, the budget process
for this year will position the University to be strong in the future, while serving students,
parents, taxpayers, and other stakeholders.
Interim Provost Tedesco emphasized that major academic projects, and the new
construction and renovation projects that support them, will proceed. There will be no
reduction in the budgetary commitments to the Life Sciences Initiative, and undergraduate
education and information technology will have ample resources for growth and
innovation. She introduced Associate Provost Paul Courant.
Associate Provost Courant again expressed the University's gratitude to the state for
exempting education from the recent set of budget cutbacks. He enumerated a number of
steps the University has taken to reduce costs, including renegotiating the contract with
Ameritech for local phone service (a savings of $1 million); purchasing electricity from
Engage Energy ($1.3 million savings); using prime vendor contracts to reduce the
purchase price on a wide variety of items ($3 million savings); and improving
management of accounts receivables and credit card business (more than $1.7 million in
immediate payments).
In the academic units, many schools and colleges are reducing their faculty strength
and all of them are redeploying faculty towards areas of increasing enrollment and away
from areas of declining enrollment, thereby increasing the number of students being taught
per faculty member. They are also eliminating or consolidating staff positions and are
improving their purchasing and management practices and providing incentives for
working more efficiently.
Associate Provost Courant noted that more specific examples of cost cutting
measures are detailed in the letter to the state, and due to the decentralized nature of the
institution, even more, less visible activities are occurring in the individual units due to
incentives from central administration.
Associate Provost Courant observed that cuts will have to be made in the FY 2003
budget. The key consideration will be in making sure that expenditures are reduced in
areas where the University is ready and able to continue to be effective with less being
done. That means being explicit about the valuable activities that are being cut back so
that activities of even greater value can be maintained and enhanced. He noted that in the
coming months the provost would be reporting to the board in some detail about progress
in these areas and will be seeking the advice of the board on how best to proceed.
Associate Provost Courant observed that it had been a pleasure working with
Interim Provost and Vice President Tedesco during the past several months, and he
looked forward to working with her in the future.
Annual Operating Request to the State, University of Michigan-Dearborn
Speaking on behalf of the University of Michigan-Dearborn campus, Provost Simpson
commented that the Dearborn budget is built on a set of strategic initiatives identified as
being important for the long-term growth of the University of Michigan-Dearborn and its
relationships with the community. There are four components to these initiatives: 1)
Extending and strengthening undergraduate education; 2) expanding graduate education; 3)


104




November Meeting, 2001


furthering the incorporation of technology into the curriculum; and 4) building new and
stronger relationships with the community.
The campus's request has two major components: the strategic addition of faculty
and strengthening the technology base.  The overall request is for an additional
$1,361,900, an increase of about 4%.
Annual Operating Request to the State, University of Michigan-Flint
Chancellor Mestas thanked the governor and legislative leaders for their support of
education in difficult economic times. He noted that the budget request contains a particular
emphasis on technology, in concert with the need to upgrade the technological infrastructure
of the campus, and to facilitate the offering of more online courses and degree programs.
Another budget emphasis is for operating expenses and programmatic expenses associated
with the opening of the new William S. White Building. The support of academic
initiatives and programs and enhancing outreachinitiatives are other areas of emphasis. He
noted the critical role that the University of Michigan-Flint plays with the city of Flint.
Regarding cost-cutting gmeasures, Chancellor Mestas noted that the campus continues
to undertake managerial efficiencies. In addition he has asked campus leaders to examine
the offerings of each unit and to identify areas in which resources can be reallocated. The
Flint campus is also attempting to raise funds from sources other than state appropriation
in an effort to expand its funding base.
Comments fro   President Bollinger
President Bollinger noted that two faculty members had recently received prestigious
awards:  Professor Bright Sheng (MacArthur Foundation Fellowship), and Sabine
MacCormack (the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation's new Distinguished Achievement
Award for scholars in the humanities) and commented on other noteworthy achievements by
University faculty members and recent newsworthy events involving the University of
Michigan.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the October
18-19, 2001 meeting.
RFeports, Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Investment, Plant
Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Iitigationl Report. The Regents received the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for October 1 - October 31, 2001. He noted that research expenditures for
the first four months of the year are about 14% higher than for the same period the
previous year. Regarding research awards, he noted that the number of awards is up 6%,
but the dollar amount has increased by 88%, resulting in $192 million more than during
the same period a year ago.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn reported
that the Health System had just undergone an exhaustive accreditation visit from the Joint
Commission on Accreditation of Health Care Organizations (JCO), and the Health System


105




November Meeting, 2001


had passed with an excellent score. He noted that hospital volumes are on budget, that
emergency room volumes continue to increase, and that strategic planning is moving
forward. He further commented on developments in the research and technology transfer
arenas.
Division of Student Affairs. No report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Dearborn.    Provost Simpson commented on recent
developments surrounding the Environmental Interpretive Center, and he reported on
several other items of interest. He noted that the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Building dedication would be held on December 6, 2001.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas reported that he had recently
addressed the Flint campus community about a number of issues, including the desire of
the University to move toward having student residences. He noted that two conditions
would have to be met in order to establish student residences: they would have to pay for
themselves with no subsidies from the University, and downtown area businesses would
have to cooperate by creating a "college town" atmosphere around the University
residences. He commented that an RFP had been issued for conducting a feasibility study
for the concept of building student residences.
MSA Report. MSA president Matt Nolan noted that students were in the midst of
an election for MSA representatives, which also includes a ballot initiative on whether to
increase student fees for funding student organizations. The other issue MSA has been
involved with is establishing a change in the academic calendar to provide a two-day,
Monday-Tuesday, fall break. He noted that MSA had done a great deal of research on
this issue and that he had been discussing it with members of the University
administration. Mr. Nolan reviewed the issues involved in the creation of a fall break
and stated that he expects to present an action request for consideration at the next
Regents' Meeting.
In response to questions, he noted that the reason for the desire to institute a fall
break was to alleviate stress levels among students during the time of midterm exams. He
noted that every Ivy League institution, and 19 of the top 25 universities nationwide, have
fall breaks, and that MSA believes a fall break would improve overall academic quality.
Regent White suggested that discussions be held with the Athletic Department
regarding the scheduling of athletic events and/or practices during the fall break. Mr.
Nolan agreed, and also noted that SACUA and the deans have all been consulted.
Voluntary Slpport. Vice President Feagin submitted Reports of Voluntary Support
for October 31, 2001.
Alcoa, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts...... $ 53,100
Virginia R. Allan Estate
for the Bentley  Historical Library................................................ 39,524
Marjorie Alpern Trust
2 shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Fund in the Medical School........................ 146,900
Robert I. Alpern, Bloomfield Hills
1 share of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Fund in the Medical School......................... 73,450
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 103,888


106




Novemxber Mleeting, 2001l


American Chemical Society, Denton, Texas
for chemistry scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 19,000
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 82,405
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 30,000
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, Rockville, Maryland
for support in the College of Pharmacy...........................................  30,000
Applied Materials Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 30,000
Charles H. Armstrong, Naples, Florida
2,009 units of MSF Research Fund mutual fund and a cash gift
for the Charles Armstrong Charitable Gift Annuity, for the ultimate benefit of
the  College  of Engineering...................................................... 50,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 11,667
Arthur Andersen L.L.P. Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  40,555
Charles W. Attwood Foundation, Canton
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
in  memory  of Charles W. Attwood...............................................  16,000
Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 100,000
Bank One Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  10,000
Peter Benedek, Beverly Hills, California
281 shares of John Hancock Financial Services common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 12,527
Robert W. Brear Estate
for the Robert W. Brear Professorship in Neurology in the Medical School.......... 2,000,000
Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New York, New York
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 249,800
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Browne Family Fund in the School of Music and
for the Women's Gymnastics Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics........ 100,500
Edyth Bush Charitable Foundation, Inc., Winter Park, Florida
for the C.S. M ott Children's Hospital............................................. 55,000
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for the C.S. M ott Children's Hospital............................................ 120,000
Chiron Corporation, Emeryville, California
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 10,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the  University  M usical Society...............................................  34,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Conger Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women and
for scholarships in the School of Dentistry........................................  20,000
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Ann Arbor
250 shares of Pfizer Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and
for the  University  M usical Society...............................................  10,280
Barbara A. Curtis Estate
for support in the Medical School and
for the C.S. M ott Children's Hospital............................................. 75,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Auburn Hills
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 25,000
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the College of Engineering and the School of
Natural Resources and Environment and
for other support at the University of Michigan.................................... 121,500
Dell Computer, Round Rock, Texas
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering...................................................... 50,000
Deloitte and Touche Foundation, Wilton, Connecticut
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  97,788
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
24,345 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Ruth Dow Doan Professorship and Directorship Fund in the Medical School..... 832,721


107




Novemxber Mleeting, 2001l


Elizabeth C. Erwin, Bloomfield Hills
8,000 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for the John Henry Erwin Fund in the Clements Library............................. 143,820
Flint Ink Corporation, Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 13,500
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Public Health and the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.......................................................... 115,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens............................................. 33,333
Forest Health Services Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.............................................  100,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 15,000
Gentex Corporation, Zeeland
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Robert I. Goldstine Estate
for support of the University of Michigan.........................................  25,000
Lawrence A. Gross, Lower Gwynedd, Pennsylvania
400 shares of SunGard Data Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the Law School, the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and
the College of Literature Science and the Arts.....................................  10,000
Michael and Mary Kay Hallman Fund, Seattle, Washington
for the B. Joseph and Mary White UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 10,000
Handleman Company, Troy
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Professorship in the School of Business Administration and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,200
Fuad S. Hassan Estate
for the Iktinos Alumni Scholarship and other support in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................... 10,000
Mary T. Hawkins Trust
284 shares of Aircraft Precision Products common stock
for the  University  Hospitals..................................................... 26,980
Thomas W. Hawkins, Miami Beach, Florida
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
A.B. Heller, Inc., Milford
for the A.B. Heller Manufacturing Scholarship in the College of Engineering and
for the Department of Athletics.................................................. 10,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research  in the School of Education........................................... 75,000
Roy C. Holmberg Estate
for Undergraduate  Student Aid................................................... 20,000
Ismail R. Hoyi, Troy
for the Kathleen Ann Trophy Hoyi Memorial Scholarship Fund in
the  School of Public  Health.....................................................  25,000
Gertrude V. Huebner, Ann Arbor
5,064 shares of Republic Bancorp Inc., common stock
for the Trudy Huebner Dance Scholarship and
for the Joseph Wojczynski Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music.............. 75,378
Immunex Corporation, Seattle, Washington
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 40,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering.........                                       30,000
International Truck and Engine Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 50,000
International Truck and Engine Corporation, Melrose Park, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 70,000
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, the Institute for Social Research,
and  the  School of Social W ork.................................................  266,256
JSI, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Public Health......................................... 25,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Nursing and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  59,554
Stephen Kemp, Whitmore Lake
for the Robert and Evelyn Kemp Fund in the College of Engineering................... 10,000


108




November Meeting, 20l01


Robert D. Kiess Trust
for the Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund in the Medical School...................... 15,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the University Hospitals.....................................................  14,398
Jerry Knight, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 20,000
Frederick and Stella Loeb Trust
for support at the University of Michigan- Flint...................................... 10,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Clare Boothe Luce Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering..... 25,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research.......................................... 303,000
Madigan Family Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 15,000
Rogers McVaugh, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for the  University  Herbarium....................................................  15,000
Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Medical School.......................................... 300,000
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 12,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 36,500
MKSG, Inc., Trenton
for the AutoMats fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................ 25,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
1,500 shares of Avon Products common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 70,538
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................  140,000
Edward W. Muransky, Tampa, Florida
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the  University  Library....................................................... 12,500
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  15,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  17,500
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Professorship Fund in the Medical School.................... 50,000
John L. Nicholaus Trust
for support of the University of Michigan........................................  115,320
Barbara H. Outwater Family Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering and the School of Art and Design and
for  W U O M................................................................... 21,000
Owner Operator Services, Inc., Grain Valley, Montana
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................  10,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for physics scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 20,000
Theodore C. Papes, Jr., Mount Kisco, New York
100 shares of International Business Machines Corporation common stock for
support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................  10,742
Brian Parker Memorial Foundation, Niles
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  15,000
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Pharmacy...........................................  10,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Pharmacy...........................................  12,000
Pharmacia Foundation, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  13,530
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  18,750
Mrs. Irving Rose, Farmington Hills
for the Audrey Rose Fund in the School of Music................................... 10,000
Dominic Rossi Trust
for the Dominic J. and K. Evelyn Healy Rossi Scholarship Fund in
the Colleae of Engineering and
for the Joan Katherine Rossi Memorial Voice Scholarship in the School of Music....... 36,000


109




Novemxber Mleeting, 20)011


Judith Dow Rumelhart, Ann Arbor
943 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Paul C. Boylan Professorship and other support in the School of Music,
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital, and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  32,831
Shirley K. Schlafer Foundation, Bloomfield
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............ 10,000
Schnall Family Trust
for the Dorothy and Blaine Schnall Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy........ 56,250
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for support m the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 29,500
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Women's Gymnastic Construction Fund and other support in
the Department of  Athletics................................................... 101,499
Gilbert S. Small, Savannah, Georgia
1,484 shares of Comerica, Inc., and
944 shares of Duke Energy Corporation common stock
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry................... 105,940
Darryl L. Snider, Los Angeles, California
800 shares of Oracle Corporation common stock
for the Danyl and Ginny Snider Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..... 11,280
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education........................................... 185,500
Mary C. and Perry F. Spencer Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for scholarships in  the M edical School............................................ 10,000
King C. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning........ 10,000
Sandra L. Sully, Palo Alto, California
for support in the School of Business Administratio n............................ 10,000
Grace E. Sutton Estate
for support of the University of Michigan, in memory of Charles Fayette Erwin.......... 25,000
Target Stores Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the C.S. M ott Children's Hospital.............................................  10,000
A. Alfred Taubman Trust
for the Alfred  Taubman  Scholarship..............................................  50,859
Fra Edna Loomis Taylor Estate
for the Fra Edna Loomis-Taylor Endowment in the Medical School.................... 27,950
Elizabeth Thompson Trust
for the Anne E. Shipman Stevens Scholarship in the Martha Cook Residence Hall........ 34,652
Jack W. Thompson, Naples, Florida
5,864 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for the Library Acquisition Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint.................. 199,904
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
3,500 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School.................. 119,840
Sinibaldo Tozzi, Grosse Pointe
1,000 shares of Dell Computer Corporation common stock
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 25,025
UAW-General Motors Human Resource Center, Detroit
for support in the School of Social Work........................................ 100,000
Rebecca W. VanDyke, Ann Arbor
for support in the schools of Medicine and Music..................................  25,100
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering........ 180,000
J.K. Zee Charitable Trust Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Eu-Phang and the C.H. Hsu Fund in the College of Pharmacy................... 10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Anonymous Donor, Ann Arbor
pamphlet for the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Dell Computer, Round Rock, Texas
computer hardware for the School of Business Administration
Maureen E. Forrest, Ann Arbor
fencing supplies for the Department of Recreational Sports
Diane McColl, Saline
knitting needles for UM Knitwits


110




Novemxber Mleeting, 20)011


William B. Morgan, Rockville, Maryland
books for the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Wallenius Wilhelmsen Lines Americas, Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey
transportation for the 2001 Solar Car Team semi-trailer
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Personnel Actions.      Interim  Provost Lisa Tedesco    submitted the following
personnel actions:
Susan E. Alcock, Ann Arbor                  Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
Feraz Ashraf, Dearborn                      Jane M. Kaufer, Ann Arbor
Kelly Askew, Ann Arbor                      Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Elizabeth S. Bishop, Ann Arbor              Debra B. McMillan, Plymouth
John F. Cherry, Ann Arbor                   Doris Melosh, Salem
John H. D'Arms, New York, New York          Erik Mueggler, Ann Arbor
Charles R. Dulin, Manistee                  Frank Ommi an, Southfield
Elaine K. Gazda, Ann Arbor                  Elisha Renne, Ann Arbor
Susan M. Guevara, Saline                    Anison Roberts, Oak Park
David J. Herzig, Ann Arbor                  Alice J. Thornton, Naples, Florida
NEW APPOINT'MENTS AND PROMOi:TIONS
OF REGI  LAR ASSOCIATE AND FULLPRC)FESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on January 1, 2002
Tardif, Twila Zoe, Ph.D, Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGl  LAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bean, James C., from Associate Dean for Graduate Education and Professor of Industrial and
Operations Engineering, with tenure, to Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Professor of
Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, January 1,
2002-December 31, 2006
Hines, James R. Jr., Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
also appointed Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2002
Klinkman, Michael S., Associate Professor of Family Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School, November 16, 2001
Meyh6fer, Edgar, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Nesse, Randolph M., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2002
Reddy, Nallapu, Professor of Economics, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of
Economics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1-June 30, 2002
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishin New Named Proessorships
Norman Thompson, M.D., Professorship in Surgery, Medical School, November 16, 2001
Richard A. Auhll Professorship in Engineering, College of Engineering, December 1, 2001
William K. and Delores S. Brehm Professorship in Type I Diabetes Research, Medical School,
November 16, 2001


111




Novemxber Mleeting, 20)011


Correction to Existing Professorship
Roger C. Lyndon Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 1999 (previously reported as Roger B. Lyndon Collegiate Professor of
Mathematics)
Redesination of Academic Administrative Position
From Associate Dean to Executive Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Nursing,
November 1, 2001
OTIHER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Algase, Donna L., Josephine Sana Collegiate Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing,
November 1, 2001-October 31, 2006
Jones, Gareth H., Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor of Law, Law School, January 1-April 30, 2002
Shin, Kang Geun, Kevin and Nancy O'Connor Professor of Computer Science, College of Engineering,
December 1, 2001-August 31, 2006
Tessler, Mark A., Sameul J. Eldersveld Collegiate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2006
Whitman, Christina Brooks, Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School,
November 1, 2001-October 31, 2006
Wright, Henry T., Albert Clanton Spaulding Collegiate Professor of Anthropology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2006
Other Transactions
Bass, Hyman, Roger C. Lyndon Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 1999-August 31, 2004 (previously reported as Roger B. Lyndon
Collegiate Professor of Mathematics)
COMMITTEE AP3POINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Board in Control oif Itercollegiate Athletics
Koopmann, C.F. Jr., November 1, 2001-October 31, 2004, vice Stephen M. Papadaopoulos, term
expired
Nawab, Mojtaba, November 1, 2001-October 31, 2004, vice Bonnie L. Metzger, term expired
School ofEducation Executive Committee
King, Patricia M., retroactive, September 1, 2001-June 30, 2004, vice Donald E. Heller, resigned from
the University
Persounnel Reports.     Interim  Provost Lisa Tedesco submitted the following
personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Baron, Daniel L., B.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Boyd, Anne J., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Gill, Kevin P., M.A., Lecturer I in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Hersh, Patricia L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Johnson, Marc J.A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Jones, Martha S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004


112




Novemxber Mleeting, 20)011


Miller, Joshua D., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Reis, David A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Rodriguez, Maira M., D.M.D., Lecturer in Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry,
October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Silveira, Maria, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 17, 2001-September 16,
2002
Tang, Tricia S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Medical Education, Medical School,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Tkachenko, Alexei V., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Yageman, Leah A., B.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Septemberl-December 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Neiva, Gisele De Faria, M.S., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bassett, David R., Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 2001-July 31, 2002
Steude, Georgine M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor Emerita
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Parfitt, Bruce D., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Rastalsky, Hartmut M., Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Suarez, Lucia M., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002 (previously reported as duty off campus)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
El-Ebrashi, Sameh K., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 30, 2001
Kravaris, Costas, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31,
2001
Murry, Kristyn, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, September 14, 2001
Term Completed
Demiralp, Burak, Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, October 17, 2001
Retirement Memoirs. No retirement memoirs were submitted to the Regents this
month.


113




Novembsear MVeeting, 2001)Q


Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents this
month.
Degrees.   President Bollinger submitted recommendations for the award of
honorary degrees to Dwight Gourneau, Native American leader (Doctor of Laws), and
Kapila Vatsyayan, director of the Indira Gandhi Center for the Arts (Doctor of Fine Arts).
The December 2001 Doctoral Degree List was also submitted for approval.
Approval of Consent Agenda     On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by
Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Six Month Report on University Audits
The Regents received the Six-Month Report on University Audits for the period April
1, 2001 through September 30, 2001.
Purchasing Contract with Valley View Farm
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a purchasing contract with Valley View Farm. Because the owner of Valley
View Farm, Douglas Doop, is also a University of Michigan employee, this contract falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Pediatric Endocrinology Division, and Valley View Farm.
2.   The service to be provided is the boarding and breeding of sheep for the purposes of
medical research, with the service to be provided for the period beginning
September 1, 2001 and ending August 31, 2002, for a total dollar amount of $16,608.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Douglas Doop, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole owner of Valley View Farm.
Lease Agreement with First Property Associates
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved a lease agreement with First Property Associates for property located at 2101
Commonwealth. Because William C. Martin is both a University of Michigan employee, a
partner in First Property Associates, and the president of First Martin Corporation, which
is the general partner, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Adolescent and Child Psychiatry Unit and First Properties Associates.
2.   The service to be provided is a lease of office space. The lease for 2010
Commonwealth will begin on April 1, 2002, for a period of 84 months at a cost of
$40,415 per month.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the president of First Martin Corporation.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Equilibrium, Ltd.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and Equilibrium,
Ltd. (hereafter, "Company") to provide funding in support of the recording of works with
violin performed by Paul Kantor, a professor in the School of Music. Because Michael
Udow is both an owner of the Company and an employee of the University of Michigan, this


114




November Meeting, 20(01


agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Equilibrium, Ltd.
2.   Terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is two years and the amount of funding support is $10,000. The
University's effort in this project will be directed by Paul Kantor.
3.   Michael Udow's pecuniary interest arises from his status as owner of Equilibrium,
Ltd.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes Commission
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Commission, under which 20% of the time of Jennifer Read, a University of Michigan
employee, will be spent at the Great Lakes Commission for a six-month period. Because
Michael Donahue, president and CEO of the Great Lakes Commission, also holds the
position of adjunct assistant professor at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Commission.
2.   Terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. The
amount of the agreement with the University if $7,308. The period of performance is
six months (with possible extension). Dr. Jennifer Read, assistant director of
Michigan Sea Grant, will spend twenty percent of her time at the Great Lakes
Commission.   While at the Commission, Thomas Crane will have primary
responsibility for overseeing Dr. Read's work; ultimate reporting authority will be to
the director of Michigan Sea Grant, Professor George Carignan.
3.   Michael Donahue has no pecuniary interest in the agreement.
License   Agreements     between   the   University   of  Michigan     and   Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents approved the
following four agreements between the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc. Because the principal owners of Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. Brian D.
Ross and Alnawaz Rehemtulla, are also University of Michigan employees, these
agreements fall under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information for each agreement is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
"Targeted Fiberless Radiative Effectors"
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Field of use: Diagnostic uses only.
Grant: Exclusive world-wide license, with a right to grant sublicenses to Technology
as defined by UM File No. 1714.
License Fee: $10,000.
Maintenance Fees: $10,000 per year to be credited against all cumulative research
funds for a period of 5 years. Subsequent annual fees can then be offset by royalties.
Equity: No equity will be taken for this license. The University of Michigan has
taken a 3% equity position on the first 12,000 shares issued by Molecular
Therapeutics under a prior license for UM File No. 1835.


115




Novemxber Mleeting, 20)011


Patent costs: All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be
paid by Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.
Royalties: 3% on net sales of products and 1% on net sales of all services using this
technology. The first - $100,000 in royalties would be offset by patent costs.
Sublicensing royalties will be 3% to 7% of net sublicense revenue provided
Molecular Therapeutics can make available a net sublicense revenue justification.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the license.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Ross and Rehemtulla arise from their ownership in
the company. They have both waived any personal participation in the sharing of funds
received by the University from Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. as a result of this
license agreement.
"Early Monitoring of the Effectiveness of Human Cancer Therapy using Diffusion
Magnetic Resonance Imaging"
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Field of use: Diffusion weighted MRI.
Grant: Exclusive world-wide license, with a right to grant sublicenses to Technology
as defined by UM File No. 1817.
License Fee: $5,000.
Maintenance Fees: $1,000 per year to be credited against all cumulative research
funds for a period of 5 years. Subsequent annual fees can then be offset by royalties.
Equity: No equity will be taken for this license. The University of Michigan has
taken a 3% equity position on the first 12,000 shares issued by Molecular
Therapeutics under a prior license for UM File No. 1835.
Patent costs: All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be
paid by Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.
Royalties: A royalty of $1000 for each of the first 400 copies of the Program or
derivative work licensed or distributed to an end user. A royalty of $600 per copy
thereafter. The first $10,000 in royalties would be offset by patent costs.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the license.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Ross and Rehemtulla arise from their ownership in
the company. They have both waived any personal participation in the sharing of funds
received by the University from Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. as a result of this
license agreement.
"In vivo Imaging of Angiogenesis"
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Field of use: Molecular reporter technology for the detection of angiogenic activity
in tumor tissues.
Grant: Exclusive world-wide license, with a right to grant sublicenses to Technology
as defined by UM File No. 1850.


116




Novemxber Mleeting, 2001l


License Fee: $20,000. Initial payment of $5,000 due upon license execution;
$5,000.00 due upon the first anniversary of signing; and $10,000 due upon the second
anniversary of signing.
Maintenance Fees: $10,000 per year to be credited against all cumulative research
funds for a period of 5 years. Subsequent annual fees can then be offset by royalties.
Equity: No equity will be taken for this license. The University of Michigan has
taken a 3% equity position on the first 12,000 shares issued by Molecular
Therapeutics under a prior license for UM File No. 1835.
Patent costs: All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be
paid by Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.
Royalties: 3% on net sales of products and 1% on net sales of all services using this
technology. The first - $100,000 in royalties would be offset by patent costs.
Sublicensing royalties will be 3% to 7% of net sublicense revenue provided
Molecular Therapeutics can make available a net sublicense revenue justification.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the license.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Ross and Rehemtulla arise from their ownership in
the company. They have both waived any personal participation in the sharing of funds
received by the University from Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. as a result of this
license agreement.
"A Non-invasive Assay for Quantitation of BACE Activity"
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Field of use: Molecular reporter technology for the in vitro detection of BACE.
Grant: Exclusive world-wide license, with a right to grant sublicenses to Technology
as defined by UM File No. 2207.
License Fee: $10,000. Initial payment of $5,000 due upon license execution;
$5,000 due upon the first anniversary of signing.
Maintenance Fees $5,000 per year to be credited against all cumulative research
funds related to BACE for a period of 5 years. Subsequent annual fees can then be
offset by royalties.
Equity: No equity will be taken for this license. The University of Michigan has
taken a 3% equity position on the first 12,000 shares issued by Molecular
Therapeutics under a prior license for UM File No. 1835.
Patent costs: All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be
paid by Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.
Royalties: 3% on net sales of products and 1% on net sales of all services using this
technology. The first - $100,000 in royalties would be offset by patent costs.
Sublicensing royalties will be 3% to 7% of net sublicense revenue provided
Molecular Therapeutics can make available a net sublicense revenue justification.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the license.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Ross and Rehemtulla arise from their ownership in
the company.. They have both waived any personal participation in the sharing of
funds received by the University from Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. As a result of this
license agreement.


117




Novemxber Mleeting, 20)011


License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Osteomics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and Osteomics, Inc.
Because the partial owner of Osteomics, Inc., Michael Long, is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Osteomics, Inc.
2.   Contract terms include:
Field of use: All fields.
Grant: Exclusive.
License Fee: $500.
Patent costs: Osteomics will reimburse the University for costs incurred during the
license. As for back patent costs: If first round of financing is $5 million or larger,
Osteomics will reimburse the University for all back patent costs. If the first round
is less than $2.3 million, Osteomics will reimburse the University 25% of the
balance and the remainder within one year. If the first round is between $2.3 million
and $5 million, Osteomics will reimburse 25% of the balance and the remainder
within 6 months.
Equity: 2% of the outstanding shares at first round of financing of at least $2 million
to be held by the University of Michigan and an additional 0.5% at a subsequent round
of financing of at least an additional $2 million. Shares subject to dilution thereafter.
Royalties: 5% on net research and development revenues; 7% on net sales of first
three therapeutic compounds marketed solely by Osteomics; 5% of revenues
received by Osteomics; 5% of revenues received by Osteomics for sales by its
partners or collaborators on the first three therapeutic compounds marketed by them,
dropping to 3% thereafter; 6% of sublicensing revenues received within two years
from effective date, 5% thereafter.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the license.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under the agreement.
3.   Michael Long's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership in Osteomics. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University
from the company.
Subcontract to Loyola University (Chicago) from the University of Michigan
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a subcontract to Loyola University (Chicago) to support the collaboration of Dr.
Brian Nickoloff. Because Dr. Nickoloff is also a visiting associate professor, without
compensation, at the University of Michigan, this subcontract falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Loyola University
(Chicago).
2.   Under the project, a total subcontract of $1,547,150 is anticipated to cover the
period April 1, 2001, through May 31, 2006. The University's standard subcontract
provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Nickoloff has no pecuniary interest in the agreement.


118




Noveb er Meeting 2001I


Use Agreement and Subcontract between the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved an agreement and subcontract between the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc. (hereafter, "Company"), for use of certain University facilities and to
assist the University as a subcontractor under a University grant from the Michigan Life
Sciences Corridor Fund. Because the principal owners of the Company, Brian D. Ross and
Alnawaz Rehemtulla, are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Contract. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreements are the University of Michigan and Molecular Therapeutics,
Inc.
2.   Terms of the proposed agreements conform to University policy. Dr. Howard Rush
will direct the use of the ULAM services over an initial one year period at an
estimated maximum annual cost of $11,700. Dr. Isaac Francis will direct the use of
the MSAIR services over an initial one year period at an estimated maximum annual
cost of $10,000. Dr. Rehemtulla will direct the University's MLSCF grant. The
subcontract to the Company will be directed and performed by employees of the
Company over a three-year period at an estimated total cost of $423,238, including
indirect cost at 20% (the rate applicable to the MLSCF). All appropriate animal and
human use approvals have been obtained for these studies.
3.   Dr. Ross's and Dr. Rehemtulla's pecuniary interest arises from their ownership of
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.
Update on Life Sciences Institute
The Regents received an update of progress on the Life Sciences Institute.
Henry Russel Award for 2002
The Regents were informed of the selection of the following individuals as recipients
of Henry Russel Awards for 2002: Clark T. C. Nguyen, assistant professor of electrical
engineering and computer science; Yoichi Osawa, assistant professor of pharmacology; and
Johanna H. Prins, associate professor of English language and comparative literature.
Establishment of a Depression Center within the University of Michigan Health
System
Executive Vice President Omenn presented a recommendation for the establishment of
a Depression Center within the University of Michigan Health System. He noted that the
Depression Center will enhance the University's clinical and health services research to
compliment the laboratory research activities of the Mental Health Research Institute. This
will be the first such center of its kind.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the establishment of the University of
Michigan Depression Center. Regent Maynard seconded the motion.
Regent Deitch commented that establishment of the Depression Center is "a very big
deal," and predicted that in the years to come, it will be an entity that the Regents will be
extremely proud of.
Regent Newman expressed agreement with Regent Deitch' s comments, and pointed
out that the proposal is extremely timely and very necessary.


119




Novemxber Mleeting, 20)011


The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
New Joint Degree Program for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
the School of Natural Resources and Environment ("Bachelor of Science or Bachelor
of Arts in the Environment")
Interim Provost Tedesco noted that this is a unique and innovative program that will
be housed in the School of Natural Resources and Environment (SNRE) and administered
by a director who reports to the deans of both LS&A and SNRE. The founding director
will be Professor John Knott from the Department of English Language and Literature.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a joint degree program, Bachelor of Science or Bachelor of Arts
in the Environment, to be offered by the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
the School of Natural Resources and Environment.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the Ann Arbor Campus for FY 2003
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents unanimously
approved the annual operating request to the state for the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
campus for FY 2003.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus for FY 2003
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved the annual operating request to the state for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
campus for FY 2003.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan-Flint Campus
for FY 2003
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the annual operating request to the state for the University of
Michigan-Ann Arbor campus for FY 2003.
Change in Name of the University of Michigan-Flint Department of Health Care to
Department of Health Sciences and Administration
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the name of the University of Michigan-Flint Department
of Health Care to the Department of Health Sciences and Administration.
Proposed Tuition and Fee Rates for UM-Flint RN/BSN Program and Revised Tuition
and Fees Schedule for 2001-2002
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved revised tuition and fee rates for the UM-Flint Registered Nurse/Bachelor of
Science in Nursing (RN/BSN) Program and a corrected tuition and fee schedule for
2001-2002, as described in the Regents Communication.


120




November Meeting, 20(01


Resolution Establishing Committee of the Whole as a Presidential Search Committee
Regent Taylor read the following resolution:
Resolved, that pursuant to the provisions in Section 1.07 of the
Bylaws of the Board of Regents, a committee of the whole to be known
as the Presidential Search Conmmittee, consisting of Regents David A.
Brandon, Laurence B. Deitch, Daniel D. Homing, Olivia P. Maynard,
Rebecca McGowan, Andrea Fischer Newman, S. Martin Taylor, and
Katherine E. White, or the successor in office of each such person, be
and is hereby established.
The committee shall consider all matters in connection with
selecting a president and shall have the power and authority to take
such steps and perbfrm such acts as may be necessary and proper to
carry out its assignment.
Be it also resolved that Regent Laurence B. Deitch shall serve as
chair of the Presidential Search Committee and Regent Daniel D.
Homing shall senre as vice-chair.
Regent Brandon seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Resolution Establishing the Presidential Search Advisory Committee
Regent Taylor read the following resolution:
Resolved, that a committee to be known as the Presidential
Search Advisory Committee is hereby established for the purpose of
advising the Presidential Search Commtittee on matters related to the
search for a successor to President Lee C. Bollinger. The chair of the
Presidential Search Advisory Committee (PSAC) shall be selected from
among the dean the  ans  the schools and colleges. In addition to the chair,
membership on the PSAC shall consist of seven faculty, two staff
members, and two students from the Ann Arbor campus; two alumni; one
representative from the Dearborn campus; and one representative from
the Flint campus.
Be it further resolved that the chair of the Presidential Search
Advisory Committee shall be Earl Lewis, Dean, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, vice provost for academic affairs-graduate
studies, and professor of histort and Afro-American and African
studies.  The remaining members of the Presidential Search Advisory
Committee shall be appointed at a later date.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Deitch commented that four of the current Regents had served on the
Presidential Search Committee that had culminated in the selection of President
Bollinger, "a terrific president," and he expressed confidence that the upcoming
presidential search will be equally as successful. He introduced Dean Earl Lewis, chair
of the Presidential Search Advisory Committee (PSAC).
Dean Lewis commented that it was a great honor to be asked to serve the institution
at this time and in this way. He observed that he could not think of a more important task


121




November Meeting, 2001


for any faculty member or dean than to help advise the Regents in the selection of the next
president of the University of Michigan.
Regarding the search process, Regent Deitch observed that the plan is to complete
the appointments to the PSAC soon, and to keep the process moving toward a reasonably
quick resolution. He indicated that the Presidential Search Committee would be making
further announcements in the next few weeks.
Motion to Meet in Informal Session
Regent Maynard moved that the Regents adjourn this formal session of the Regents
and begin a nonformal session, the purpose of which is to consult with our attorney
regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with pending litigation. Regent Horning
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents met in informal session from 3:00 to 3:30, and reconvened at 3:30 p.m.
to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, all on the topic of the
University's participation in United Way: Brett Seabury, faculty member, representing the
Social Welfare Action Alliance; William Meezan, faculty member, representing the School
of Social Work faculty; Jayne London, staff member; and Edith Lewis, faculty member.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:00 p.m. The next
meeting will take place December 13-14, 2001.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


122




DECEMBER MEETING, 2001


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 13, 2001
The Regents convened at 1:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Bollinger and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and
Taylor. Also present were Vice President Feagin, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little,
Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Interim
Provost and Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regent White participated in the meeting by phone.
President Bollinger called the meeting to order and called on Regent Horning.
Resolution in Honor of Field Hockey Team
Regent Homing called members and coaches of the field hockey team to the podium.
All were introduced, and Regent Horning presented them with the following resolution:
RegentZets sResolu08tio
The Regents of the University of Michigan applaud the field hockey
team for winning the national championship, becoming Michigan's first
women is team to achieve that honor.
The team's 2-0 victory over the top-ranked Maiyland Terrapins at the
National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) finals on November 18 capped
a season in which players and coaches worked together to overcome adversity
and injuries. During the regular season, the team had held opponents to just
six shots per game while posting an 18-5 record. Michigan's victory in the
NCAA finals was the result of outstanding goaltending and an all-around
defensive efbirt. With the win, the Wolverines became the first team to record a
shutout in the championship game since 1996, the first Big Ten conference
team to win the title since 1986, and only the second midwestern school to win
the title since the beginning of the championship more than 25 years ago.
The Regents salute Michigan's national championship women's field
hockey team, Coach Marcia Pankratz, and assistants Nancy Cox, Ashley
Reichenbach, and Tracey Fuchs for their inspiring and history-making season.
Hail to the victors valiant!
A standing ovation followed, after which Ms. Reichenbach thanked the Regents and
said the team was "thrilled" to be "bringing the 51st national championship home for
Michigan."
Resolution in Honor of President Bollinger
President Bollinger called on Regent Maynard. Regent Maynard commented about
President Bollinger's passion for excellence in higher education and the "wonderful, great


123




December Meeting, 2001


energy he had in pursuing that excellence." She noted that four resolutions had recently
been introduced and approved by state and federal legislative bodies, and she requested
that these be made part of the Regents Proceedings (See Appendix, 151). These are from
the U.S. Senate (Senator Carl Levin), the U.S. House of Representatives (Representative
Lynn Rivers), the Michigan State Senate (Senator John Schwarz), and the Michigan House
of Representatives (Representative Christopher Kolb). Regent Maynard then read the
following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend and express
their gratitude to President Lee C. Bollinger fobr his inspiring
leadership, which has engaged both faculty and students and has
brought the Universitv to a position of enviable strength and vitality.
President Bollinger, who served as the University's twelfth
president from 1997 to 2001, has sharpened Michigan's academic focus
and worked to improve the educational experience fior all students,
particularly undergraduates. The ambitious Life Sciences Initiative,
launched early in his presidency, is expanding research opportunities
for students and positioning Michigan to contribute in significant wa2ys
to this extraordinary scientific revolution.  President Bollinger,
architect of the University's legal defense of its admissions policies,
has led the national debate regarding the role of affirmative action in
higher education.
His ejforts to promote the role of public universities in the arts
and humanities have generated exciting new partnerships, most notablv
Micigan's collaboratiotn with the Royal Shakespeare Company, and
plans for the Walgreen Drama Center and the Arthur Miller Theatre.
The Regents also gratejully acknowledge many other milestones during
his presidency, including a new campus master plan, renewed interest
in the University's history, extraordinary growth in research funding,
increased voluntary financial support, establishment of the Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy, andfour national intercollegiate athletic
championships.
With appreciation and admiration, the Regents congratulate and
extend best wishes to Lee C. Bollinger in his new role as president of
Columbia Universi:.
A standing ovation followed. President Bollinger noted that there had been ample
opportunities already for him to thank his wife, Jean, the executive officers, the people
who work in central administration, the Regents, faculty, staff, and students. So he chose
not to diminish his previous comments, and to just say "Thank you."
President Bollinger called on Regent Deitch.


124




December Meeting, 2001


Meeting of Presidential Search Committee
Regent Deitch moved that the Board of Regents convene as a committee of the whole
for the purpose of serving as a Presidential Search Committee. Regent Newman seconded
the motion, and it was passed unanimously.
Appointment of Presidential Search Advisory Committee. Regent Deitch stated
that the purpose of meeting as a Presidential Search Committee was to put forth the names
of 15 "terrific University citizens" to serve under the leadership of Dean Earl Lewis as
the Presidential Search Advisory Committee (PSAC). He noted that the more than 200
people considered for membership on the PSAC came from a number of sources on all
three campuses and that self-nominations were also considered. As a group, he noted
that the faculty members chosen are broadly representative of the academic community
and the important academic initiatives underway. He thanked Dean Lewis, chair of the
PSAC, and Vice President Tedesco, for their work in putting together the committee.
Regent Deitch observed that the committee is intellectually diverse, occupationally
diverse, and culturally diverse, and as such, is a perfect group from which to draw advice
as the Regents pursue their constitutional duty to "fill the very big shoes" left by President
Bollinger. He moved that the following individuals be appointed to the Presidential
Search Advisory Committee:
Susan E. Alcock, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts (LSA), associate professor of classical archaeology and classics, recipient
of the MacArthur Fellow Award in 2000;
Paulette M. Cebulski, associate professor of physical tierapy, Physical Therapy
Department, School of Health Professions and Studies, UM-Flint, Director, Physical
Therapy Program, UM-Flint;
Anocha Cornell, custodian supervisor III, Building Services, Plant Operations;
Nicholas F. Delbanco, Robert Frost Collegiate Professor of English Language and
Literature, professor of English, LSA, director, Program in Creative Writing, chair,
Hopwood Committee;
John F. Greden, M.D., Rachel Upjohn Professor of Psychiatry and Clinical
Neuroscience, professor of psychiatry, Medical School, chair, Department of Psychiatry,
Medical School, executive director, University of Michigan Depression Center;
Saul A. Green (Alumnus), senior counsel and director, Minority Business Practice
Group, Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone P.L.C., Detroit, Michigan;
Patricia Y. Gurin, Nancy Cantor Distinguished University Professor of Psychology
and Women's Studies, professor of psychology, LSA, chair, Department of Psychology,
LSA;
Lisa R. Jackson, graduate student in Ph.D. program, Department of Psychology,
LSA;
Michael J. Jandernoa (alumnus), chairman of the board of directors, Perrigo
Company, Allegan, Michigan;


125




December Meeting 2001I


Rashmi Luthra, associate professor of communications and composition,
Department of Humanities, UM-Dearborn;
Matthew J. Nolan, undergraduate student, LSA, MSA President, 2001-2002;
Tresa M. Pollock, professor of materials science and engineering, College of
Engineering;
Lawrence Root, professor of social work, School of Social Work, director,
Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, chair, U-M Standing Committee on Labor
Standards and Human Rights;
William R. Roush, Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor of Chemistry,
professor of chemistry, LSA, co-chair of the Life Sciences Commission;
Theodore L. Spencer, director of Undergraduate Admissions.
Regent Newman seconded the nomination, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Deitch moved to adjourn the meeting of the Presidential Search Committee
and reconvene the meeting of the Board of Regents. Regent Newman seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Comments from President Bollinger
President Bollinger commented on several items related to construction of campus
buildings and maintenance of facilities. He noted that over time, the University has, with
the full support of the Board of Regents, made sure that it does not fall behind in caring for
the campus. He observed that during his administration, approximately $700 million has
been invested in the maintenance of existing physical properties, two of the most prominent
of these being the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building and Hill
Auditorium.
President Bollinger noted that it has been recognized for a long time that extensive
renovation is needed at Hill Auditorium, and although much effort was put into
fundraising to accomplish this, a good deal of the funding will come from University
sources.
President Bollinger pointed out other renovation efforts that had been accomplished
during the past few years: Burton Tower, the Dana Building, the Perry Building, Lane
Hall, the School of Dentistry, West Hall, Mason and Haven Halls (including the
"Fishbowl"), and the LSA Building.
New construction projects initiated over the past 5 years include the Bioengineering
Building, the UM-Dearborn CASL Building, the UM-Flint William S. White Building, the
Life Sciences Institute and other life sciences buildings, and the Biomedical Sciences
Research Building. He noted that the proposed Ford School of Public Policy Building
will be the realization of a long-standing dream for this school.
President Bollinger noted that the Walgreen Drama Center, which includes the
Arthur Miller Theatre, is a complicated project for which significant funding has been
raised. However, a number of decisions still need to be made regarding the design of the
theater, related to the kind of presentations that it will be used for. Other decisions
revolve around the facilities needs for the Drama Department, which is currently housed


126




December Meeting, 2001


in the Frieze Building. He noted that the creation of a complex of theaters in the vicinity
of the Power Center is the right thing to do, because it provides density for arts venues.
Estimates of funding needs have been done, and these need to be evaluated in light of
conflicting priorities.
He noted that the School of Public Health has long needed new facilities and has
held the highest priority in the University's capital outlay request. However, it appears
that there will be no capital outlay in the near future, so decisions will need to be made
about alternative means to address these needs.
Comments from Executive Vice President Kasdin
Governmental Accounting Standards Board. Executive Vice President Kasdin
called attention to a letter from the chairman of the Governmental Accounting Standards
Board, stating that the board was impressed by the University's ability to meet the new
reporting standards earlier than most universities in the country and in such an outstanding
fashion. He pointed out that this lends support to the high quality work of the University
staff who work in financial operations.
Supply Chain lManagement. Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the
University has made great strides in the past few years in supply chain management,
including the identification of partnerships to continue these efforts. He noted that the
University has joined a Big Ten consortium for purchasing to help the Big Ten in reducing
its purchasing costs. He called attention to a letter distributed at the meeting describing a
new purchasing consortium that has emerged from the Life Sciences Corridor, in
conjunction with Michigan State University, the Van Andel Institute, and Wayne State
University to try to identify areas in which costs can be reduced by purchasing jointly.
The type of goods being purchased through this consortium are ones that none of the
institutions on their own would require in sufficient volume to receive a volume discount.
But developing the consortium has yielded a way to reduce costs.
Environmental Stewarsahip. Executive Vice President Kasdin explained that the
University has deliberately chosen to use the term  "stewardship," rather than
"sustainability," because the latter term has developed politically-laden connotations.
Doing such a presentation on an annual basis allows the University to focus both on its
past progress and on upcoming challenges in these areas, which are very important to the
University. He pointed out that the biggest challenge is changing behavior. This
presentation focuses the University community on the need to work together to save
energy, recycle, and reduce pollution levels.
He introduced Mr. Terrance Alexander, director of the University's Office of
Occupational Safety and Environmental Health, who gave a presentation on the
University's environmental stewardship efforts. Mr. Alexander noted that although many
of the University's programs were started to ensure regulatory compliance, today these
programs go well beyond compliance and are considered the right way to do business,
often a means of saving money, and part of people's jobs. He provided an update on the
University's conservation measures, pollution prevention, recycling activities,
sustainable design, and salt/sand reduction programs.
He noted that implementation of the Energy Star building upgrades is ahead of
schedule and that these programs save the University about 25 million kilowatt hours


127




December Meeting 2001


annually. Buildings use 20%-30% less energy after the upgrades, and there is typically a
three-to-five-year payback period.
An initiative has been developed for 2001-2002 energy conservation efforts aimed
at modifying behavior, titled "Making a Greener Maize and Blue." It's objective is to
raise the level of awareness of energy reduction strategies campus-wide to reduce energy
consumption. Reducing utility usage by just one percent could save the University
$400,000-$600,000 per year; and additional savings would be possible if participation
rates can be improved. Mr. Alexander also described the University's initiatives in
recycling of materials from lighting ballasts and fluorescent light bulbs, both of which are
more cost effective than disposal.
Mr. Alexander then described environmental stewardship efforts on the medical
campus. These include a successful chemical redistribution program through which
excess chemicals are collected from researchers and reused, reducing both the cost of
new materials and waste disposal; and replacement of the old incinerator with a new
steam sterilization system to manage the medical waste stream.
Other waste reduction processes throughout campus involve the use of micro-liter
quantities of chemicals in laboratories. Mr. Alexander also noted that the University has
been reducing mercury use on campus for a number of years and has recently
implemented a campus-wide campaign with the goal of becoming a "mercury-free
campus." To date, thousands of mercury-containing pieces of equipment have been
eliminated and more than 1,500 pounds of elemental mercury has been sent off-site to be
recycled.
Mr. Alexander described the University's efforts to reduce fertilizer, herbicide, and
insecticide use throughout campus in order to help protect the Huron River and to reduce
the use of salt and sand for de-icing. He also described recycling programs both on
central campus and within Michigan Stadium which have resulted in a 30% reduction of
the waste stream. He noted that 4.6 million pounds of paper and cardboard were
recycled last year alone.
He noted that Purchasing Services is promoting the use of "green" products and that
the University incorporates green features and storm water management systems into
building designs and during construction.
Mr. Alexander commented that the next challenge for the University in
environmental stewardship is to increase participation in existing conservation programs.
This will entail creative efforts for communicating to and engaging the community, and a
number of initiatives are underway, aimed at various segments of the campus.
President Bollinger observed that environmental concerns have been a high priority
for his administration, even though they have not received a lot of publicity. He said that
it is important that the staff who work in these areas are recognized for their efforts.
Following a three-minute break, President Bollinger turned to the next item on the
agenda.
Hill Auditorium Renewal Update
Executive Vice President Kasdin noted that the Regents had previously approved the
Hill Auditorium Renewal Project and the schematic design of the renovation. Given the


128




December Meeting, 2001


importance of this facility to the University and the community, it was decided to brief the
Regents about what the interior of the building will look like after it is completed. He
introduced Mike Quinn of Quinn Evans Architects.
Mr. Quinn observed that the general design of the renovation has moved ahead in
keeping with what was presented in June. He noted that the design goals are two-fold:
careful restoration of an important national, regional, and University landmark, and
complete upgrade of building systems while trying not to change the appearance of the
building. He reviewed the design, which includes exterior restoration and complete
reconstruction of the front plaza, new electrical system upgrades and replication of the
original lighting scheme. There will be a new heating and air conditioning system, and
Mr. Quinn noted that the design of this system had undergone extensive scrutiny by an
acoustical consultant so as to meet very specific acoustical standards. The building will
receive comprehensive life safety upgrades and will include many improvements
designed to serve the needs of the disabled community. There will also be a series of
patron amenity and comfort improvements, including new seating in the orchestra level,
improved circulation, and more than doubling of existing restroom facilities.
Mr. Quinn noted that every effort has been made to preserve and maintain the
renowned acoustic quality of Hill Auditorium and described improvements that will be
made to control noise within the facility. He then turned to illustrations of what the
building interior will look like when it is completed, including the lower lobby area, for
which funding has been provided since the last presentation in June. He noted that
extensive research had been done in an effort to recapture the original interior arts and
crafts color scheme and displayed samples of the color pallet that will be used.
Renditions of the completed interior from several different vantage points were also
displayed.
Regent Deitch commented that the plans are "fantastic." Executive Vice President
Kasdin thanked Julie Truettner, a staff member with an interest in historical preservation,
who has provided helpful guidance as the interior design process was undertaken.
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Hill Auditorium Renewal revised budget of $38.6 million, and
authorized receiving bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are
within the revised project budget.
Establishment of a Fall Study Break and Approval of Changes to Academic
Calendars for 2002-2003 and 2003-2004
Interim Provost Tedesco commented that MSA President Matt Nolan had given a
thorough explanation of this proposal at the last meeting and had continued to provide
information about its benefits since then. She noted that deans, associate deans, student
services administrators, and program planners had been consulted on the proposed changes,
and all agreed with MSA's analysis that the benefits —a reduction in student stress and
improvement in the quality of work —would far outweigh the necessary scheduling
adjustments. Senior Vice Provost Monts had also carefully reviewed the proposal, she
noted, and it had received enthusiastic endorsement from him and his staff. She reiterated
Vice President Harper's observations that the change would greatly facilitate first-year


129




December Meeting, 2001


students' transition to college life and would also increase the overall well-being for all
students.
Interim Provost Tedesco reported that at other institutions with fall study breaks
students usually travel home or stay on campus to study during this break period and she
cited statistics indicating that alcohol-related problems drop during fall break periods.
Approval of the fall study break would require changes in the already approved academic
calendars for 2002-2003 and 2003-2004. Finally, she noted that the average number of
fall term class days will actually increase following establishment of the fall break.
Regent McGowan moved establishment of a two-day fall study break and approval
of corresponding changes to the academic calendars for 2002-2003 and 2003-2004.
Regent Maynard seconded the motion and complimented Mr. Nolan on his thoroughness
and advocacy efforts. There being no further discussion, the vote was taken, and the
motion was approved unanimously.
Annual Report of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA)
Professor Mojitaba Navvab was called to the podium to present the annual SACUA
report. He pointed out that in addition to the report, he had distributed memoranda to the
board stating SACUA's position on the proposed bylaw regarding the Life Sciences
Institute and on the proposed changes to the bylaws concerning the Board in Control of
Intercollegiate Athletics.
He gave a status report of SACUA's activities on the following issues: prescription
drug benefit changes; copyright policy clarification; electronic privacy; and teaching
principles and tenure guidelines. He also highlighted SACUA's concerns regarding
proposed bylaws changes pertaining to the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
and the new bylaw regarding the Life Sciences Institute, and he requested that the votes
on these issues be delayed to a later date.
Professor Navvab commented that SACUA has begun preliminary discussions on
the issues of grade alteration policies; grievance procedure changes; faculty
composition/non-tenure track increases; procedures for handling allegations of faculty
misconduct; tuition reimbursement; and child care.
He thanked President Bollinger and Interim Provost and Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco for their support and attention to faculty concerns and noted that
SACUA looks forward to working with Interim President White and Interim Provost
Courant.
Consent Agenda
Minutes.  Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the
November 15, 2001 meeting.
Reports, Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Investment, Plant
Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research  Report,   Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for October 31 - November 28, 2001.


130




December Meeting, 2001


University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn reported
that the expansion of primary care group practice sites has been very successful and that
the hospital is on track financially, although there are increasing stresses on nursing staff
due to staffing shortages and increased staffing demands. He noted that Dr. Michael
Mulholland has been recommended for appointment as chair of the Department of
Surgery.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper announced that the division
had been awarded a four-year, $280,000 "Child Care Access Means Parents in School"
(CCAMPIS) grant from the U.S. Department of Education. This grant will allow the
University to expand the pool of qualified child care providers near campus and in
student areas, especially those who serve infants and toddlers, providing additional hours
of care during times of peak demand.  It will also provide increased support to
undergraduate students from low income households. She noted that the grant is a
collaborative effort with the Department of Human Resources and Affirmative Action, the
Center for the Continuing Education of Women, and the Division of Student Affairs, and it
allows the University to continue to address the child care needs of the community.
Vice President Harper also praised the work of MSA's leadership team of Matt
Nolan and Jessica Cash, noting in particular their actions following the tragedy of
September 11, achieving funding for expanded evening hours in the recreation buildings,
and the successful fall study break proposal.
She also commented that the leaders of the Greek system have provided aggressive
leadership around issues of scholarship, safety, and service, and they have made many
changes to try to strengthen the Greek system.
Regent Maynard encouraged Vice President Harper and her colleagues to begin
thinking about how to provide for replacement of the grant funding once the grant has
ended.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little commented on the recent
dedication of the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters (CASL) Building and noted that it
was a "stupendous" event. He also read a statement from members of the University of
Michigan-Dearborn community on President Bollinger's leadership.
iniversity of o [ichigaln-Fint. Chancellor Mestas expressed holiday greetings from
the Flint campus.
MSA Report. MSA president Matt Nolan thanked President Bollinger for his
service as president and noted that he would be sorely missed. Mr. Nolan also expressed
thanks to the Regents for approving the fall break and for appointing him to the
Presidential Search Advisory Committee.  He thanked the University staff and
administrators who had provided invaluable assistance and guidance in pursuing the
establishment of the fall break.
Mr. Nolan commented that the $1.00 per term fee increase for the funding of student
organizations had been approved. He noted that MSA had recently passed resolutions
supporting environmental sustainability and urging the Regents to delay consideration of
proposed changes to the bylaws regarding the Board in Control of Intercollegiate
Athletics. He distributed copies of the Michigan Student Assembly Semiannual Report
and introduced MSA Vice President Jessica Cash.


131




December Meeting, 2001


Ms. Cash expressed gratitude on behalf of the student body for establishment of the
fall study break. She commented that she hoped the publication of the semiannual report
would help alleviate the perennial problem of the short institutional memory of the
student government and enable future student leaders to understand and build upon past
achievements.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted Reports of Voluntary Support
for November 30, 2001.
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Public Health..................................... $  38,320
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 103,888
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering, the Department of Kinesiology,
the Medical School, the Schools of Nursing and Public Health, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 400,925
Americana Foundation Inc., Novi
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane and
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................. 50,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund in the Medical School...................... 25,000
Anonymous Donor
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Anonymous Donor
two Charitable Gift Annuities
for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School................................... 2,000,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the School of Public Health, and
the Institute for Social Research................................................  126,659
CBSM Foundation, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
170 shares of Symantec Corporation common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 11,102
Pal E. Borondy, Plymouth
for the Pal E. Borondy Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the University Musical S o    c   ie     ty.................................................. 30,000
Conrad A. Bradshaw, Grand Rapids
200 shares of Fifth Thir Bancorp and
600 shares of Herman Miller Inc., common stock
for support of the  Law   School...................................................  25,046
Isabelle J. Brown, Jackson
1,714 shares of GlaxoSmithKline PLC common stock
for the Isabelle Brown Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  College  of Pharm acy.......................................................  92,410
Chase Manhattan Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  51912
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 19,500
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for the University  of M ichigan- Flint.............................................  14,049
Paul Connell, Milford, Ohio
8,944 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Priscillia H. Connell Award Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.......................................................... 372,402
Laura J. Currie, Midland
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  15,000
William M. Cutler, Vero Beach, Florida
500 shares of McDonald's Corporation common stock
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for the Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund in the Medical School...................... 13,725
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........ 25,500


132




December Meeting 2001


Laning Ross Davidson Estate
for support of the University of Michigan......................................... 33,000
Deafness Research Foundation,
for research in the Medical School and the School of Public Health.................... 18,530
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Foundation Fund in the Law School and
for the George H. Deuble Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 1-0,000
James S. Duesenberry, Belmont, Massachusetts
16,000 par of U.S. Treasury Bonds
for the James and Margaret Duesenberry Charitable Gift Annuity #2 for
the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 21,620
El Adobe Corporation, Santa Barbara, California
for the Richard A. Auhll Professorship in the College of Engineering................. 450,000
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Elkes Fund for Faculty Excellence in the Law School......................... 250,000
Exxon Mobil Corporation, Irving, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering..... 26,500
Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Saint Louis, Missouri
for support in the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work and
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 12,500
GE Fund, Fairfield, Connecticut
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................... 75,000
General Motors Corporation Disbursement Services, Phoenix, Arizona
for support in the Medical School and the Transportation Research Institute............. 22,500
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering,
for the Center for Sustainable Systems in the School of Natural Resources and Environment,
and for employee matching gifts................................................. 33,548
Globe Foundation, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the B. Joseph and Mary White UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 125,000
Joseph I. Goldstein, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Goldstein Family Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts...................................................................... 15,000
Robert H. Gorlin, Auburn Hills
105 shares of Colgate-Palmolive Company and
300 shares of Motorola Inc., common stock
for the Selma and Albert Gorlin Student Award Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................... 11,421
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New Yorl
for research in the School of Social Work........................................ 151,246
Oliver Hatcher Charities, Wixom
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital............................................. 60,000
Verl J. Hawks Trust
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 85,624
Andrew M. Isaacs, Sunnyvale, California
580 shares of Motorola Inc., common stock
for the Isaacs and Kappmeyer Camp Davis Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts...................................................................... 10,295
Johnson and Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine................... 15,000
Larry L. Johnson Trust
for sup ort in the Department of Athletics......................................... 40,000
Robert Woo&Johnson Foundation
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 300,452
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 140,810
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 370,294
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the School of Social Work.......................................... 42,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the University Hospitals..................................................... 1-6,350
Cary H. Klein, Allison Park, Pennsylvania
925 shares of Medarex Inc., common stock


133




December Meeting, 2001


for the Cary and Kathy Klein Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the   A rts......................................................................  2 1, 104
William E. Kogen, Boonton, New Jersey
2,096 units of American New Perspective Fund mutual fund and a cash gift
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Education................ 45,100
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 35,000
Jack Lapides Estate
8,107 shares of various corporate common stock and
100,000 par of a municipal bond
for the Jack Lapides Professorship in the Medical School.......................... 413,239
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 28,750
Barbara R. Levine, Ann Arbor
for the  M useum   of Art.........................................................  10,000
Litvak Foundation, Troy
for the Alan T. Ackerman Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School................ 10,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate  Studies..............................................................  40,625
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Hunein F. Maassab, Ann Arbor
for the H.F. Maassab Student Research Award Fund in the School of Public Health....... 15,000
Oliver Frederick Manzini, Laurium
for support in the School of Dentistry and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. 10,000
Clara E. Mara Estate
for the Clara E. Mara Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................... 38,251
Richard N. Maskell, Hampshire, Illinois
for support in the School of Art and Design........................................ 10,000
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
300 shares of First Energy Corporation common stock
for the Research in College Teaching and Learning Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts...........................................................  10,401
Rose C. and Nathan L. Milstein Family Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Nathan and Rose Milstein Research Fund in the Medical School................ 12,000
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 135,000
Maeve Murray Memorial Fund, Plymouth
for support in the Medical School, in memory of Maeve Murray...................... 15,500
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 10,500
Richard M. Noel, Champaign, Illinois
for the Richard Noel Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................  100,000
NPV Family Limited Partnership, West Bloomfield
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 20,000
Richard D. O Connor, Birmingham
for support in the Department of Athletics and the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts......................................................................  51,000
George H. O'Dell, Longwood, Florida
for the George H. O'Dell Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  25,000
Stanley P. Oleksy, Jackson
for the Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund in the Medical School...................... 10,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for the David and Lucile Packard Fellowship and
the Packard Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 82,500
Leonard Parks Trust
for support of the University of M ich    ig   an......................................... 15,000
Pepsi-Cola Company, Somers, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  50,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the  University  Hospitals..................................................... 20,000
William F. Piper Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration, in memory of William F. Piper.... 17,878
L. Norris Post, Creedmoor, North Carolina
for the Julie Norris Post Appalachian Collection and the Julie Norris Post Heathdale
Collection Funds in the Nichols Arboretum........................................ 20,000


134




December Meeting, 2001


Lois D. Robertson Estate
for research in the Medical School...............................................  10,000
Muriel Rumsey Foundation, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for scholarships in the Medical School...................................... 20,000
Alice J. Russell Estate
for the Henderson House Fund and
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 28,947
Saint John's Armenian Church, Southfield
for the Arsen Sanjian Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts....................................................................  100,000
William Scholz, Roswell, Georgia
for the William Scholz Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  10,000
Edward L. Shearer, Metairie, Louisiana
for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Loyal Crew Fund in
the  College  of Engineering...................................................... 10,000
Howard F. Sims, Detroit
for support in the School of Social W ork.......................................... 21,000
Alva Gordon Sink Trust
for the Alva Gordon  Sink  Scholarship............................................. 11,304
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Jerold andKathleen Solovy Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts......................................................................  10,000
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
for the Richard and Eleanor Towner Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  University  Library................................................. 20,000
Toyota Motor Corporation of Japan, Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 36,000
James A. VanSweden, Washington D.C.
71 shares of Freddie Mac and
118 shares of Pfizer Inc., common stock
for the Johanna and Anthony VanSweden Scholarship in Landscape Architecture in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................................. 10,000
Jerrold L. Wagener, Tulsa, Oklahoma
3,985 shares of B.P. Amoco common stock
for the Jerrold and Jean Wagener Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering................................. 191,738
Emil A. Weddige Trust
for the Emil Weddige Scholarship/Fellowship in the School of Art and Design and
for the Juanita Weddige Scholarship in the School of Music.......................... 75,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Peter M. Wege Chair of Sustainable Systems, the Transition for the Center for
Sustainable Systems Fund and the Ford Endowment for National Pollution Prevention in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment................................. 250,000
Michael P. Wellman, Ann Arbor
5,000 shares of Ariba Inc., common stock
for the Wellman Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 26,725
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering....................................... 487,726
Kathryn and Walter Wriston Family Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Robert E. and Carolyn B. Dineen Scholarship in the Law School................ 10,000
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sam Zell Dean's Tactical Fund in the Law School............................ 100,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Scott Baird, Chelsea
a computer for for the Museum of Zoology
Kathleen Coolsaet, Grosse Ile
two hearing aids for the Department of Otolaryngology
EDS PLM Solution, Maryland Heights, Missouri
computer software and a site license for the Department of Mechanical Engineering
Robert Erickson, Ann Arbor
wheelchair ramp and electric wheelchair for Med EQUIP
Artemis Leontis, Ann Arbor
books for the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Ruth Scodel, Ann Arbor
books for the Department of Classical Studies


135




December Meeting, 2001


Helen Pecha Spangler, Bloomfield Hills
books for the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Donald Wiiken, Naples, Florida
art work for the Alfred Berkowitz Gallery at the University of Michigan- Dearborn
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
John F. Cherry, Ann Arbor
Julie A. Craves, Dearborn
Elaine K. Gazda, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Mark Malisani, Livonia
Diane McColl, Saline
Juan E. Mestas
Fred Smith, Plymouth
Personnel Actions. Interim    Provost Tedesco submitted the following personnel
actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on January 1, 2002
Fogel, Jessica Kimalt, M.A., Professor of Dance, School of Music
Liu, Lydia H., Ph.D., Helmut F. Stern Professor of Chinese Studies, Professor of Asian Languages and
Cultures, and Professor of Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on January 1, 2002
Dutton, Jane E., Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Wang, Zheng, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
REAPPOINTM1ENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Chow, Chi Loong, Chair, Department of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering
and Computer Science
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMNISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Campbell, Darrell Jr., Associate Chief for Clinical Affairs and Professor of Surgery without tenure,
Medical School, also appointed Chief of Staff for Clinical Affairs, University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers, November 7, 2001-June 30, 2002
Gonzalez, Richard D., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed Professor of Marketing, without tenure, School of Business Administration,
five-year term, January 1, 2002
Hines, James R. Jr., Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
also appointed Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
January 1, 2002
Perlin, Marc, Associate Professor of Ocean Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, January 1,
2002-December 31, 2006


136




December Meeting, 2001


Schwarz, Norbert W., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed Professor of Marketing, without tenure, School of Business Administration,
five-year term, January 1, 2002
AiPIROVAL OF LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC( ADMINMISTRAT:IVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Root, Terry L., Associate Professor of Biology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, research leave, January 1, 2002-May 31, 2003
Yee, Albert F., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, and Professor of Chemical
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, research leave, January 1-December 31,
2002
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing Named Profkssorships
Robert W. Brear Professorship in Neurology, Medical School, December 14, 2001
Lucile Groff Endowed Chair in Neurology for Alzheimer' s Disease and Related Disorders, Medical
School, December 14, 2001
S. Martin Lindenauer Collegiate Professorship in Vascular Surgery, Medical School, January 1, 2002
OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appointrments to Established Professors hips
Brooks, Clinton C., Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2002
Cain, Charles A., Richard A. Auhll Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2002-December 31, 2006
Mudge, Trevor N., Bredt Family Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2002-December 31, 2006
Wilson, Jessica M., William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2006
eapointments to Estabished Pro essors
Mann, Ronald J., Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffit Research Professor of Law, Law School,
December 1, 2001-November 30, 2002
McNamara, James A. Jr., Drs. Thomas M. and Doris Graber Endowed Professor, School of Dentistry,
three-year term, September 1, 2001
Other Transactions
Taylor, Simone Himbeault, Associate Vice President for Student Affairs, Office of Student Affairs,
December 17, 2001
COMMITTEE All       rOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Social Work Executive Comiittee
Dunkle, Ruth E., January 1, 2002-August 31, 2004, vice Lorraine M. Gutierrez, no longer eligible to
serve
Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Tedesco submitted he following personnel
reports:


137




December Meeting, 2001


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Altan, Ahmet H., B.Sc., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Corsello, Christina M., Ph.D., Clinical Instructor in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-May 31, 2002
Day, Sharlene, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 1, 2001-September 30,
2002
Dennis, Robert G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Lasker, Janaya S., B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Lorenz, Alice, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Mann, William R., M.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2003
Morelock, Julie, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
November 1, 2001-October 31, 2003
Panapasa, Sela V., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Rosania, Gustavo R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Rowney, Rosemarie H., M.P.H., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-May 31, 2002
Rudd, Elizabeth C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Shah, Paras P., D.O., Lecturer in Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, September 1-December 14, 2001
Sharphorn, Daniel H., J.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Stecker, Eric, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 1, 2001-October 31,
2002
Sylvester, Ching-Yune C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Thannickal, Victor J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2001-September 30, 2003
Velankar, Milind, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, October 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Ruiz, Robert E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, August 1, 2001 -July 31, 2002 (previously reported as Lecturer in Pathology)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Chotiprasidhi, Poonputt, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2004
Clark, Nina, from Assistant to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 2001-July 31, 2003
Diponio, Lisa A., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, October 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Dyke, David B., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2001-September 30, 2004
Ferris, Daniel P., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004
Housner, Jeffrey A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, also appointed Clinical Assistant
Professor of Orthaepedic Surgery, Medical School, November 1, 2001-October 31, 2002


138




December Meeting, 2001


Kaplan, Mariana J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2001-September 30, 2003
Klein, Katherine A., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
December 1, 2001-November 30, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Carnahan, Brice, Professor Emeritus of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2001
Castelli, Walter A., Professor Emeritus of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Hawkins, Joseph E. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Ingram, William, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, October 1-December 31, 2001
Juni, Elliot, Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Physiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2002
Larimore, Ann E., Professor Emerita of Geography and Women's Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001
Miller, Murray H., Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn College
of Engineering and Computer Science, September 1-December 31, 2001
Sullivan, Joseph, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Wylie, E. Benjamin, Professor Emeritus of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2001
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alexander, Neil B., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-February 28, 2002
Ashe, Arthur J. III, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Barvinok, Alexandre I., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Chen, Yubao, Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, September 1,
2001-April 30, 2002
Clark, Steven E., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Donahue, Craig J., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Durfee, Edmund H., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Information, without tenure, School of Information, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Gombosi, Tamas I., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Science, with tenure, and Professor
of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Grosh, Karl, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Hofer, Timothy P., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Jenkins, Janice M., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, retirement
furlough,
January 1-December 31, 2002
Koditschek, Daniel E., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002


139




December Meeting, 2001


Kota, Sridhar, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Lecuyer, Annette W., Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Meisels, Samuel J., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Mistretta, Charlotte M., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry and Professor of
Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-February 28, 2002
Neighbors, Harold W., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure,
School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Orr, Bradford G., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Porter, Marianetta, Associate Professor of Art, without tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Sastry, Ann M., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Smereka, Peter S., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Spector, Scott D., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Swales, John M., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Tilbury, Dawn M., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Travis, William J., Associate Professor of Art History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Wakefield, Gregory H., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, and
Associate Professor of Music, without tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave, January 1-April
30, 2002
Wiley, Michael J., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Williams, Melvin D., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Wondolleck, Julia M., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Zak, Donald R., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Eckhauser, Frederic E., C. Gardner Child Professor of Surgery and Professor of Surgery, with tenure,
Medical School, October 31, 2001
Heller, Donald E., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, December 31, 2001
Lin, Vivian H., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 31, 2001
McDougle, Leon, Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School, October 22, 2001
Meraw, Stephen J., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, October 14, 2001
Midia, Mehran, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School,??? September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Nesbitt, Shawna D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 31, 2001
Podolsky, Robert H., Assistant Professor of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
December 31, 2001
Schooler, Gerald J., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
August 31, 2001
Term Completed
Mittica, Nicholas M., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2001
Retirement Memoirs. No retirement memoirs were submitted to the Regents this
month.


140




December Meeting, 2001


Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for Patrick
Malloy, associate professor of kinesiology.
Bernard Patrick Maloy, associate professor of kinesiology in the Division of
Kinesiology, passed away peacefully on November 28, 2001, after a courageous battle
with cancer.
Professor Maloy received his B.A. degree in history from Wheeling College, his J.D.
degree from the University of Notre Dame, and his M.S. degree in sports administration from
The Ohio State University. He was a member of Alpha Sigma Nu (National Jesuit Honor
Society) and the Phi Kappa Phi Honor Society.
His career began with a law practice in North Judson, Indiana, from 1972-83, where he
was the sole legal practitioner in a small, rural town. He concentrated in the areas of public
sector labor relations, secondary education law, and civil litigation. He has worked with the
Indiana School Board Association and the Indiana High School Athletic Association. He is
co-author of the Master Commissioners Bill enacted by the Indiana Legislature in 1978. A
career change enabled Professor Maloy to integrate his legal skills with his keen interest in
sports and athletics. After graduate studies, he worked in corporate management for MDS
Qantel, a computer company serving many teams of both the National Football League and
National Basketball Association as well as the athletic departments of major universities.
In 1986, Professor Maloy received an appointment at the University of Michigan in the
Division of Kinesiology, Department of Sports Management and Communication as an
assistant professor. In 1993, he was promoted to associate professor. He taught courses in the
legal aspects and management of sport and facility management. Clearly, Professor Maloy's
tenure at the University was the most stimulating and satisfying of his career. He loved
teaching and promoting excellence in analytic and writing skills to his students. He was known
as a caring professor, but one who highly challenged his students and took great care in
evaluating their work. According to Professor Maloy, the students were more challenging than
any jury he ever faced, but he obviously won their respect. The proof lies in his outstanding
teaching evaluations-a consistent median of 4.8 out of a possible 5.0. While at the University,
he received numerous honors including a State of Michigan Teaching Excellence Award and
an Academic Leadership Fellowship to the Committee on Institutional Cooperation.
His research interests included legal and public policy issues of sports and management
and liability issues of stadiums and arenas. He has published both as a sole author and in
collaboration with others. He has written three books, contributed several book chapters, and
published numerous articles in his field of expertise. He was affiliated with over fifteen
associations, and he served as a member of multiple editorial boards.
Most recently Professor Maloy served as a Faculty Mentor for the University of
Michigan Mentorship Program, as a member of the Ombuds Training Task Force, and as a
member of the Kinesiology Executive Committee. He previously served as a member of the
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs, the University Residency Appeals
Committee, the Advisory Committee to the University of Michigan Safety and Security
Committee, the Seminar on Teaching Committee, the University of Michigan Experiential
Education Committee, and as an Ombuds for the Division of Kinesiology. He was a long-time
marshal at the commencement activities, and for many years he has actively helped the
Department of Athletics in their student recruitment activities.
Professor Maloy is survived by his wife of 32 years, Nora Alton Maloy, 2 sons, Michael
and Barney and their spouses Carolina and Jill; 2 brothers, Mark and John; 3 sisters, Tessie
Steffens, Mary Walker and Maggie McCullough and 13 nieces and nephews.


141




December Meeting, 2001


Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by
Regent Horning, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitments
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $15.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Beacon Capital Strategic Partners II and $15.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Asian Realty Partners II, both real estate funds.
Sale of Tax Exempt Commercial Paper to Finance University's Projects
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously authorized an increase of the amount outstanding, not to exceed the authorized
$170 million limit, under the commercial paper supported by a pledge of General
Revenues.
Dr. Aram Janigian Trust (Estate)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved acceptance of the gift distribution of the 0.84% membership interest
in Highland HYE, L.L.C. from the Dr. Aram Janigian Trust (Estate), as described in the
Regents Communication.
Dental Building Central Sterilization Unit Renovation
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved the Dental Building Central Sterilization Unit Renovation Project as described,
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy Building Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that the site for the proposed Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy Building is on one of the University's prime pieces of
property, on the comer of Hill and State Streets. Regent McGowan moved approval of the
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy Building project and authorization for engaging the
firm of Robert A.M. Stem Architects for the design of the building. Regent Deitch
seconded the motion.
Regent Deitch inquired about the project architect, and Executive Vice President
Kasdin and President Bollinger responded that Robert Stern himself will be personally
involved in the project, given the school's national prominence and connection with
former President Ford. President Bollinger commented that President Ford himself is
very enthusiastic about this project. Regent Maynard noted that the building was to be
constructed on the site of a parking lot. Executive Vice President Kasdin said that plans
for parking will be included at the time that final approval is sought on this project.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.


142




December Meeting, 2001


Replacement of Tunnel and Associated Utilities Located between Hill Auditorium
and Edward H. Kraus Building
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a project for replacement of the tunnel and associated utilities located between
Hill Auditorium and the Edward H. Kraus Building.
Replacement of the Kitchen Freight Elevator in West Quadrangle Dormitory
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for replacement of the kitchen freight elevator in West
Quadrangle Dormitory.
WUOM Relocation to Leased Space Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that it was necessary to relocate WUOM
out of the LSA Building while the building is undergoing renovation. On a motion by
Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents unanimously approved
relocation of WUOM   to leased space in the Argus Building, including lease-hold
improvements of $1.6 million, as described in the Regents Communication.
Palmer Drive Development Elevated Pedestrian Walkway Adjacent to the Science
Instruction Center
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the Palmer Drive Development Elevated Pedestrian Walkway
adjacent to the Science Center project as described, and authorized issuing the project for
bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Palmer Drive Development Pedestrian Bridge over Washtenaw Avenue
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that construction of this bridge has been
a priority for some time and is very much a life safety issue. On a motion by Regent
Homing, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the Palmer
Drive Development Pedestrian Bridge over Washtenaw Avenue project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Medical School Biomedical Science Research Building
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Biomedical Science Research Building project for bids
and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) East Medical
Center Drive Road-Widening Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved the UMHHC East Medical Center Drive Road-Widening Project and authorized
issuing the project for bids and awarding a construction contract, providing that the bids are
within the approved budget.


143




December Meeting, 2001


License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Attenuon, LLC
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Attenuon, LLC. Because Drs. Sofia Merajver, George Brewer, and Dimitri Coucouvanis
and Mr. Robert Dick are all University of Michigan employees and will hold an equity
interest in Attenuon, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Attenuon,
LLC.
2.   Licensing terms:
Field of Use: All fields.
Grant: Exclusive world-wide license, with a right to grant sublicenses. Term of the
agreement is for the life of the patents.
Maintenance Fees: $10,000 per year initially and stepped up through 2006 to
$50,000, creditable against royalty due.
Patent Costs: All current and future patent costs will be paid by Attenuon.
Equity: Attenuon grants the University 323,231 shares (2.2%) of Attenuon stock
once the entity is converted into a corporation. Attenuon has two years to convert
into a corporation, an additional opportunity to obtain six month extension either by
justifying with a financial benefit or buying the additional six month extension. An
additional 484,847 shares total of Attenuon, Inc. stock will be granted as milestone
payments, subject to dilution corresponding to that of the founders.
Royalties: 3% of Net Sales of Therapeutic Products by Attenuon, sublicensees and
affiliates. 2% of Net Sales of other Products by Attenuon, Sublicensees and
Affiliates.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the licensee.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool.
No use of University services or facilities nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under this license agreement although a funded research
agreement is also being proposed and will be described in a later Regental Action.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Merajver, Brewer, and Coucouvanis and Mr. Dick
arise from their ownership in Attenuon, LLC. As inventors, Drs. Merajver, Brewer,
and Coucouvanis have waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenues and
received by the University from the company. (Mr. Dick is not an inventor and
therefore is not entitled to participate in revenue distribution through the University.)
Subcontract Agreement from the University of Michigan to Vanderbilt University
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement from the University of Michigan to
Vanderbilt University, involving the collaboration of Dr. Robert Macdonald of Vanderbilt.
Because Dr. Macdonald is also an active emeritus professor at the University of Michigan,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Vanderbilt University.
2.   Under the project, a total subcontract of $350,000 is anticipated to cover the period
August 1, 2001 through May 31, 2005. The University's standard subcontract
provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Macdonald's appointment at the University of Michigan is without compensation.


144




December Meeting, 2001


Undergraduate Science Instruction Center
Executive Vice President Kasdin reported that a number of programmatic decisions
had been made recently that affect the Undergraduate Science Instruction Center ("L-Shaped
Building"). These include the decision to locate the undergraduate biology instructional
program in this building instead of the Drama Department and the decision to carefully
evaluate the scope of the Walgreen Drama Center. These decisions complete the transition
of the L-Shaped Building into a a facility that is laboratory-intensive and also raise
engineering and structural issues related to the changed assumptions of the type of structure
that is to be located atop the Palmer Street Parking Structure. Because the architect
originally retained for this project was a specialist in theater design, it was decided to
request appointment of Venturi Scott Brown & Associates, Inc., to join SmithGroup, Inc., as
architects for their expertise in design and construction of laboratory and classroom
facilities. He also noted that a decision has been made to add a fourth story to this building.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the following with respect to the Undergraduate Science
Instruction Center:  expanded scope, a revised budget of $56,000,000, and
commissioning of the architectural team of Venturi Scott Brown & Associates, Inc., and
the SmithGroup, Inc.
Regental Bylaws on Athletics Governance
President Bollinger described the proposed revisions to the Regents' Bylaws on
athletics governance. He noted that the basic issue is where ultimate responsibility for
intercollegiate athletics and the Athletic Department rests, and his strong belief is that this
responsibility should reside with the president, as it does for every other segment of the
University. He noted that this practice is consistent with that of other institutions across the
country and with Big Ten policy, and he believes it is critical that the bylaws be amended
to clarify this.
President Bollinger noted that the normal channels had been followed for proposing
this bylaw change, and his intentions have been known to SACUA for some time. In fact,
parts of the proposal had been changed to reflect some of the concerns expressed by
SACUA. Although academic eligibility matters would be delegated to the advisory
board, he noted, non-academic matters must remain within the prerogatives of the
president. He noted that this issue has been under consideration for many years without
resolution, and that it would be unfair to a future president not to settle it at this point.
Regent Taylor moved approval of the proposed amendments of Regents' Bylaws
11.21-11.218, as detailed in the Regents Communication. Regent Newman seconded the
motion.
Regent White moved to table the motion and postpone the vote on this issue until the
next meeting. This motion was defeated for lack of a second.
Regent Deitch observed that he had some concerns initially but that President
Bollinger had made a compelling case and he intended to support it. Regent Maynard
commented that she appreciated the positive nature of the discussion about this issue.


145




December Meeting 2001


Following further discussion, the vote was taken and the motion was approved on a
vote of 7 to 1, with Regent White opposed.
The revised bylaws follow:
Sec. 11.21. The Department of Athletics: General Purposes
Responsibility for the development, maintenance, and administration of the
University's programs in recreational sports and athletics on the Ann Arbor campus shall
rest in the Department of Athletics.
The department shall, subject to the ultimate authority of the president and the
Board of Regents, have responsibility for a comprehensive program of recreation and
physical development for students, faculty and staff, and for the necessary staff, facilities,
and equipment. The term "recreational sports" shall include intramural sports, club sports,
informal, drop-in and special interest recreational activities, to be offered as hereinafter
provided. The term "athletics" shall include all programs of intercollegiate competition.
The department shall promote wide participation by students in the activities of the
department. Every effort will be made to coordinate the intercollegiate program with that
in recreational sports.
The department shall conduct its activities in accordance with the policies and
procedures applicable to other university units.
Sec. 11.211. The Department of Athletics: Organization of Department
The agencies through which the department shall exercise its functions are: (1) the
director of athletics; (2) associate directors for intercollegiate athletics and director of
recreational sports; (3) the Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics; and (4) the
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports.
Sec. 11.212. The Department of Athletics: The Director
The executive functions of the department shall be performed by a director of
athletics. The director shall be appointed by the Board of Regents upon recommendation by
the president and shall be responsible to the president. The director's salary shall be
determined by the president. The director shall be responsible for the effective operation of
the program in recreational sports and athletics.
The director shall be responsible for the coaching, training, and schedule making
andfor all matters included in the business administration incidental to all recognized and
proper forms of intercollegiate athletics. The director shall perform such other duties as
may be directed by the president.
Sec. 11.213. The Department of Athletics: Appointment of Staff Members
The director shall arrange appropriate procedures within the department for
securing nominations for appointees in all categories having due regard to the interests of
the other agencies of the department and, where joint appointments are contemplated, the
interests of the school or college involved.
Sec. 11.214. The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics
The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics (hereinafter "the Advisory Board
") shall be constituted as follows:
I.  Six membes of the Ulniviersity Senate, to be appointed by the presidentfrom a
paIed of senate members chosen by the Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs, subject to the approval Qf the Board of Regents. The six
senate rnen'bers shall hold office in each case for three years, but in no event
s1 all any m1ember of the senate serve rore than two consecttive terus, except
that if a mnember be appointed to fill an unexpired teirn of less than haif of a
fit 11 term, this shall not m~ake that m~embe r ineligible for two full term's. The
terns of seate men bers shall be staggered so ti at two terms shall expire


146




December Meeting, 2001


each year. The panel from which the appointments are made shall be
unranked and shall contain twice the number of appointees. If a vacancy in
the appointive senate membership shall occur from causes other than the
completion of the appointive term, the president is authorized to make an
interim appointment from the most recent panel of names submitted by the
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs; or, if the president so
requests, from a new panel of names chosen by the Senate Advisory
Committee on University Affairs.
2.  The University representative in the Intercollegiate Cotference of Faculty
Representatives ex of cicio to serve afive year term.
3.  Two alumni/ae, to be appointed by the president from. a panel chosen by the
board of directors of the University of Michigan Alumni Association, subject
to approval by the Board of Regents, to hold office for three years in each
case, provided always that no alumni/ae member shall hold office more than
two consecutive terms. The alumni/ae members shall serve three-year terms,
which terms shall be staggered so that they are not concurrent. The panel
from which the appointments are made shall contain twice the number of
appointees. f a vacancy in the appointive alumni/ae membership shall occur
from causes other than the completion of the appointive term, the president is
authorized to make an interim appointment from the most recent panel of
names submitted by the board of directors of the University of Michigan
Alumni Association; or, if the president so requests, from a new panel of
names chosen by that board.
4.  Two student athletes of the University, to be appointed by the President from
a panel chosen by Michigan Student Assembly, subject to approval by the
Board of Regents. The student athlete members shall serve two-year ternms
-which terms shall be staggered so that one student athlete is appointed each
year. The panel from whhich the appointmenet is made shall be unranked and
shall contain at least twice the number of appointees. If a vacancy in the
appointive student athlete membership shall occur from causes other than the
completion of the appointive term, the president is authorized to make an
interim appointment from the most recent panel of names submitted by
Michigan Student Assembly; or, if the president so requests, from a new panel
of nanmes chosen by Michigan Student Assembly.
5.  Two members of the University Senate to be appointed by the president on
the recommendation of the director, subject to the approval of the Board of
Regents. The panelfrom which the appointments are made shall contain twice
the number of appointees. These members shall hold office in each case for
three years, except that one of the first two members so appoinzted shall have
an initial term of only 2 years so that henceforth their terms shall be
staggered. In no event shall these members serve more than two consecutive
terms. If a vacancy in the membership appointed on the athletic director's
recommendation shall occur from causes other than the completion of the
appointive term, the president is authorized to make an interim appointment
from the most recent panel of names submitted by the athletic director; or, if
the president so requests, from a new panel of names chosen by the athletic
director.
6.  The chair of the Senate Advisory Commnittee on University Ajfairs, ex officio.
7.  One executive officer appointed by the president to be a member ex officio.


147




December Meeting, 2001


8.  The director of athletics, ex officio, witho ut vote.
Sec. 11.215. The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics: Organization
Members of the Advisory Board shall be appointed on or before the first of July
each year. The officers of the Advisory Board shall be a chair, a secretary, and such other
officers and committees as shall be authorized or chosen by the board. The director of
athletics shall be chair, ex officio, without vote. The chair shall act as presiding officer at
board meetings and shall act as the board's general executive officer.
There shall be a Committee on Academic Performance consisting of the faculty
members of the board, and in addition a representative of the registrar of the University.
The committee shall have authority to examine and appraise the academic performance of
all candidates for intercollegiate athletic teams, to determine their eligibility for
competition in intercollegiate athletics, and to take any other action regarding such
candidates as may seem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
Sec. 11.216. The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics: Functions
The Advisory Board shall function as advisor to the director on the program in
intercollegiate athletics. The director shall seek and consider the advice of the Advisory
Board on all major financial and policy decisions with respect to the program on
intercollegiate athletics.
Upon the request of the Advisory Board, the president shall meet with the Advisory
Board at least once in each of the fall and winter semesters.
Subject only to the ultimate authority of the president and the Board of Regents,
the Advisory Board shall make, adopt, and enforce the necessary rules and regulations
governing all questions pertaining to the eligibility of players, intercollegiate relations,
and membership in associations of universities and colleges organized for the regulation
of athletics.
The Advisory Board shall appoint the University representative in the
Intercollegiate Conference of Faculty Representatives, the appointment to be approved by
the Senate Assembly. Such representative shall be a member of the University Senate, shall
hold office for a term offive years and may serve unlimited terms.
The Advisory Board shall report all its official actions, through the president, to
the Board of Regents for approval, and shall report annually to the University Senate,
through the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs. At any time, the Advisory
Board may consult with the University Senate through its advisory committee; and at any
time, the Senate Advisory Committee may request full information on matters within the
province of the Advisory Board. The Advisory Board shall at all times receive and consider
recommendations from the University Senate and petitions from the student body.
Sec. 11.217. The Department of Athletics: Funds
Separate accounting and financial statements shall be made for department funds.
Any surplus funds from intercollegiate operations shall be devoted (1) to the further
support of the various programs and activities carried on within the department, and (2) so
far as possible, to permanent University improvements, particularly to the building and
improvement offacilities for participation in allforms of physical exercise.
Sec. 11.218. The Department of Athletics: Rules and Regulations
Rules and regulations relative to the use of the facilities and properties devoted to
intercollegiate athletics shall be prepared by the director of the department who shall
consult with the Advisory Board before submitting such rules and regulations to the
president and Board of Regents for approval.


148




December Meeting, 2001


Revision of Medical Staff Bylaws and Bylaws Supplement of the University of
Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved proposed changes to the Medical Staff Bylaws and Bylaws Supplement of the
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health System, as detailed in the Regents
Communication.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics indicated:
Amaizin' Blue, student a capella group, performed a song in honor of President Bollinger's
leadership; Thomas Fitzgerald, alumnus and member of the Council for Responsible
Genetics, on proposed Bylaw 13.15; Peter Reppe, staff, on environmental sustainability;
James Kibbie, faculty member, Bruce Frier, faculty member, and Stephen Rassi, student, on
the United Way campaign; and Misty Fewel, student, on her residency application.
The Regents requested a presentation at the January 2002 meeting about the
residency classification guidelines and application and appeal process.
New Regents' Bylaw 13.15: Life Sciences Institute
President Bollinger explained the somewhat unique nature of the Life Sciences
Institute and noted that it is interdisciplinary and exists outside of the boundaries of the
schools and colleges. He commented that the purpose of this bylaw is to incorporate the
Life Sciences Institute and its organization and governance structure into the bylaws.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the following new Regents' Bylaw regarding the Life Sciences
Institute.
Bylaw 13.15: Life Sciences Institute
The Life Sciences Institute shall be maintainedfor the purpose of research, service,
and teaching in the life sciences and related disciplines. The institute shall be a distinct
academic unit with reporting and governance structures that ensure academic excellence
and academic integration with the University community.
The institute shall be under the direction of a director or co-directors, responsible
to the president and appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the president. The
director or co-directors shall be assisted by an executive committee.  The executive
committee shall consist of the director or co-directors of the institute, the president, the
provost and executive vice president for academic affairs, the executive vice president for
medical affairs, and the vice president for research, all ex officio, two deans, two faculty
members from the institute, and two faculty members from the university at large,
appointed by the Board on recommendation of the president. The appointed members of
the executive committee shall be broadly representative of the life sciences or other
disciplines related to the activity of the institute. The appointed members shall hold office
for three years and shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one year.
The initial terms will be adjusted so that two shall expire each year. The director or
co-directors of the institute shall chair the executive committee.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:50 p.m. The next
meeting will take place January 17, 2002.


149




December Meeting, 2001


Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


150




DECEMBER MEETING, 2001
APPENDIX
Resolution from Michigan House of Representatives, introduced by State
Representative Christopher Kolb:
Lee C. Bollinger
President, University of Michigan
WHEREAS, Lee C. Bollinger is a graduate of the University of
Oregon and Columbia Law School, where he was an Articles Editor of
the Law Review; and
WHEREAS, President Bollinger served as a law clerk for Judge Wilfred
Feinberg, United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, and Chief Justice
Warren Burger, United States Supreme Court; and
WHEREAS, President Bollinger joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan in 1973, and was named Dean of the University of Michigan Law School
in 1987, a position he heldfor seven years; and
WHEREAS, President Bollinger was named the twelfth President of the
University of Michigan in November of 1996, after serving as Provost of
Dartmouth College; and
WHEREAS, During his administration, the University of Michigan has
experienced record numbers of applicants and eighty-two percent of
undergraduate students graduate within six years - the highest graduation rate in
the State of Michigan; and
WHEREAS, Under President Bollinger's leadership, the University of
Michigan launched, in 1999, the Life Sciences Initiative as a campus-wide effort to
coordinate and expand research and teaching in such rapidly advancing fields as
genomics, chemical and structural biology, cognitive neuroscience, and
bioinformatics; and
WHEREAS, The University of Michigan has experienced a steady growth
in fundraising during President Bollinger's administration. In three of the past
four years, Michigan has raised more money from alumni than any other public
university; and
WHEREAS, The University of Michigan's research expenditures, more
than $545 million in fiscal year 2000, are the highest among public universities in
the United States; and
WHEREAS, President Bollinger has been an ardent and eloquent defender
of affirmative action. President Bollinger has been the motivating force behind
what has become higher education's most comprehensive defense of affirmative
action, marshaling considerable resources to defend the University's admissions
policies, and has garnered widespread support, internally and externally; and


151




"ecemxber Mreeting, 20001 - Apprendix A


WHEREAS, President Bollinger has worked to strengthen the experience
of the arts on campus, complementing the efforts of the University Musical Society
and the School of Music. The Walgreen Drama Center and the Arthur Miller
Theatre are an outgrowth of that commitment. In addition, the Royal Shakespeare
Company performed three cycles of Shakespeare's history plays in March 2001 to
enthusiastic audiences at the Power Centerfor the Performing Arts; and
WHEREAS, Under President Bollinger's leadership and guidance, the
University of Michigan established the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy;
and
WHEREAS, President Bollinger appointed the Commission on the
Undergraduate Experience in May 2000 to examine how undergraduates are
engaged at the University of Michigan. He also meets regularly with students, and
on at least two occasions, has opened his home to students; the first time following
a University of Michigan victory over Penn State in 1997 on the way to the
Wolverines' nationalfootball championship. More recently, he and his wife, Jean
Magnano Bollinger, invited students to the President's house to give students
support to bring a sense of normalcy to campus following the terrorist attacks; and
WHEREAS, President Bollinger has strengthened the International
Institute by elevating its profile within the University and by supporting such
events as the "Globalization's Intellectual Challenge" symposium featuring Czech
President Vdclav Havel in 2000; and
WHEREAS, President Bollinger is married to Jean Magnano Bollinger
and has two children, Lee and Carey; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED BY THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, That this legislative
body honor Lee C. Bollinger, President of the University of Michigan, upon the
occasion of his leaving the University of Michigan; and be itfurther
RESOLVED, That a copy of this resolution be transmitted to Lee C.
Bollinger as evidence of our admiration for all he has accomplished at the
University of Michigan.
Resolution from the Michigan State Senate, introduced by Senator John Schwarz:
A Resolution to Commemorate the Achievements of Lee C. Bollinger, J.D.,
President, University of Michigan
WHEREAS, The members of the Michigan Senate offer this tribute to Lee C.
Bollinger on the occasion of his taking leave as President of the University of
Michigan, so honoring the achievements he has made and the benefits derived by
the Universityfrom his tenure; and
WHEREAS, Lee Bollinger was born in Santa Rosa, California, on April 30,
1946, and raised there and in Baker, Oregon. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from
the University of Oregon with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1968, andfrom
Columbia Law School with a Juris Doctorate in 1971. While attending Columbia,


152




"ecemxber Mreeting, 20001 - Apprendix A


he excelled as Articles Editor, Law Review, and was named an Harlan Fiske Stone
Scholar; and
WHEREAS, After two clerkships in the United States Court of Appeals and Supreme
Court, Lee Bollinger came to the University of Michigan (UM) Law School to serve
as Assistant Professor, 1973-76, Associate Professor, 1976-78, Professor of Law,
1979-1994, and Dean, 1987-1994. After three years at Dartmouth College as
Professor of Government and Provost, he returned to the University of Michigan in
1997 as President and Professor of Law; and
WHEREAS, His accomplishments as President of the University of Michigan are as
diverse as the University itself; and
WHEREAS, Lee Bollinger has made interaction with students a priority, teaching a
course on the First Amendment, opening the President's home on special
occasions, sponsoring a 5Kfun run, and meeting regularly with students. Perhaps
these are factors in the record number of admissions applications the University
has received. The University of Michigan has maintained its high academic
standards, and, with eighty-two percent of undergraduate students graduating
within six years, has the highest graduation rate in the state; and
WHEREAS, His guidance in fiscal management has greatly increased investment
returns, endowments, andfundraising, resulting in several milestones: The
naming of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy in November, 1999; the
establishment of the Life Sciences Initiative and Institute, which complement a
broader statewide effort, the Life Sciences Corridor; and major construction
efforts through the Palmer Drive Development and numerous renovation and
addition projects to long-standing campus structures; and
WHEREAS, President Bollinger has been an ardent and powerful defender of
affirmative action, marshaling considerable resources to defend the University's
admission policies. Recipient of the National Association for College Admission
Counseling 2001 Excellence in Education award in September 2001, he was cited
for his "... unwavering support of affirmative action and his eloquent articulation
of the value - and importance - of diversity on the nation's college and university
campuses.
WHEREAS, He has worked diligently to strengthen the experience of the arts on
campus, complementing the efforts of the University Musical Society and the
School of Music. The Walgreen Drama Center and the Arthur Miller Theatre are
outgrowths of that commitment as are the Year of the Arts and Humanities (YoHA),
the Arts of Citizenship Program, Imagining America, and the partnership with the
Royal Shakespeare Company; and
WHEREAS, He appointed the President's Information Revolution Commission to
examine the University's relationship to information and communication
technologies; the Commission on the Undergraduate Experience to examine how
undergraduates are engaged at the University; and sought to strengthen the
International Institute by elevating its profile within the University; and
WHEREAS, The University of Michigan is considered a leader in sustainability
efforts, promoting environmental stewardship through initiatives and programs,
including recycling, energy conservation, building design, pollution prevention,
emissions reduction, alternative-fuel vehicles, and storm water management; and
WHEREAS, In 1998, by adding 5,500 seats to Michigan Stadium, the University of
Michigan once again boasts the largest stadium in the country with 108,000 seats,
perhaps inspiring the 1998 Wolverine football team to win the Rose Bowl over


153




December Meeting, 2001 - Appendix A


Washington State University and to be named the National Champion in the
Associated Press Top 25 poll, the University's first nationalfootball championship
in 50 years and the Big Ten'sfirst since 1968. Recently, the University of
Michigan placed 4th in the 2000-2001 Sears' Directors' Cup competition for NCAA
Division I schools, which recognizes the best overall collegiate programs in the
country; and
WHEREAS, He has received numerous awards, including Honorary Fellow, Clare
Hall, Cambridge University, LL.D. (hon.) Westminster College, Fulton, Missouri;
Fellow, American Academy of Arts and Sciences; and the Rockefeller National
Humanities Fellowship. President Bollinger has served on many boards and
commissions, including the Kresge Foundation, the Royal Shakespeare Company
America, the Gerald R. Ford Foundation, and the Mount Desert Island Marine
Biological Laboratory, and has served as author and lecturer in his passion to
further higher education; now, therefore, be it
RESOLVED BY THE SENATE, That sincere praise be hereby accorded to
Lee C. Bollingerfor his tireless efforts to further higher education in the state of
Michigan. We honor him for his dedication and vision, which will benefit the
University of Michigan for years to come. May he and his wife Jean, son Lee, and
daughter Carey know of our deep appreciation and best wishes for continued
success in allfuture endeavors; and be itfurther
RESOLVED, That a copy of this resolution be presented to President Lee C.
Bollinger in a special ceremony as an expression of our admiration and best
wishes for the future.
Resolution from the U.S. Senate, introduced by Senator Carl Levin:
In Recognition of Lee Bollinger's Service as President of the
University of Michigan
Mr. LEVIN: Mr. President, today I would like to pay tribute to a
dynamic and visionary leader in my home State of Michigan, Mr. Lee
Bollinger.
For nearly 5 years, Lee Bollinger has served as the president of
one of the world's premier institutions of higher learning, the
University of Michigan. During the Bollinger administration, the
University of Michigan has experienced a period of dynamic growth
and change.
At a time when it is essential to keep higher education
affordable for all Americans, it is imperative that universities do all
they can to provide a quality education at an affordable price. Lee
Bollinger has worked hard to place the University of Michigan in a
healthy financial position so that it can meet its financial obligations.
The University has operated its fiscal affairs astutely under Lee's
leadership. U of M's endowment is now the fourth largest among public
universities.
In recent years, some have suggested that university presidents
are chosen more for their ability to raise money than for their academic


154




"ecemxber Mreeting, 20001 - Apprendix A


prowess or vision for the modern research university. Despite his
success at managing the University's fiscal affairs, Lee Bollinger was
not such a university president. He is truly a Renaissance man whose
vision of the University as a tool for academic and social progress
permeated all that he did while in Ann Arbor.
Lee Bollinger's vision for the University has reinforced
Michigan's role as a leader in the arts and sciences. He was
instrumental in the construction of the Walgreen Drama Center, which
houses the 450-seat theater named in honor of the most famous living
American playwright and an alumnus of the University of Michigan,
Arthur Miller. In addition, he made it possible to bring the Royal
Shakespeare Company to campus.
The sciences have also flourished under Lee's tenure. He has
worked to develop the University's Life Sciences Initiative, which will
soon house hundreds of researchers who will probe the human genome
and will work to discover new treatments for a variety of diseases. This
initiative has the potential to make both the University and the State of
Michigan leaders in the emerging field of biotechnology.
My admiration for Lee has also been shaped by his unwavering
support of the University's affirmative action policy in admissions.
Under his stewardship, the University has made inclusion and diversity
its bywords. Lee has steadfastly led the defense of the University's
policies in two separate lawsuits that are currently being heard in
Federal court, and which may ultimately be heard before the Supreme
Court. I thank him for his tremendous commitment to making sure that
the University of Michigan continues to provide a diverse learning
environment for all of its students. I know the University will continue
to fight for these issues even after Lee moves on to his new position as
President of Columbia University.
Just last month, Lee was recognized by the Association of
Academic Health Centers with the Herbert W. Nickens Award in honor
of his strong advocacy for diversity at the University and in our Nation.
It is an award that is well deserved.
As Lee Bollinger leaves Ann Arbor for New York City, I want to
take this opportunity to wish him and his wife, Jean, all the best. During
his tenure as President, Lee Bollinger enhanced the University of
Michigan's stature as one of the premier institutions of learning in the
world. I know that my Senate colleagues will join me in congratulating
Lee Bollinger on his tenure as President of the University of Michigan.
I trust that the Columbia University community will soon come to
admire him as much as we have in Michigan.
Resolution from the U.S. House of Representatives, introduced by Representative
Lynn Rivers:


155




"ecemxber Mreeting, 20001 - Apprendix A


Ms. RIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to Lee C.
Bollinger, who will be leaving as president of the University of
Michigan at the end of this month to become president of Columbia
University in July.
For nearly 5 years, Mr. Bollinger has been a transforming
leader at the University of Michigan, whose Ann Arbor campus is in my
congressional district. During that time he has achieved a number of
major accomplishments.
One of those efforts is the Life Sciences Initiative, which was
launched in 1999. With a commitment of $100 million in campus funds,
a $130 million endowment and additional revenues, the University will
become a major source of research on human genomics, chemical and
structural biology, and bioinformatics. A new six-story Life Sciences
Institute is now under construction on the Ann Arbor campus. The
university will also benefit from the state's Life Science Corridor, a
20-year program to develop new technologies in the life sciences
statewide.
Mr. Bollinger has also overseen the most successfulfund-raising
campaign in history, raising nearly $1 billion since 1997. In three of
those four years, Michigan raised more money from alumni than any
other public university. Research expenditures also reached record
levels under his stewardship to stand among the highest in the nation.
By far, one of his most significant contributions has been his
ardent and effective defense of affirmative action in admissions. Mr.
Bollinger has been a strong supporter of the need for diversity in higher
education, and his willingness to fight several lawsuits on that issue
underscore his strong commitment to that principle. I know of no
president who has been so closely tied to students and who has related
as well to the thousands of young men and women at the university.
From bringing the Royal Shakespeare Company to Ann Arbor to
dedicating the new Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, Lee
Bollinger has been a man of vision —a leader of compassion —and a
strong advocate for the principles that he and the University embody.
I know he has mixed feelings about leaving behind the Michigan
family as he moves on to Columbia next year. But those of us who have
seen the progress and growth of the university under his tutelage can
only say "thank you" to Lee for his outstanding service to the
University, to the people of Michigan and to the nation.
I call upon all my colleagues to thank him for his legacy of
service, and to join me in wishing him and his wife Jean well in their
future endeavors.


156




JANUARY MEETING, 2002


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, Januayv 17, 2002
The Regents convened at 1:45 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were Interim
President White and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman,
and Taylor. Also present were Interim Provost Courant, Vice President Feagin, Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel
Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice
President Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and
Vice President Wilbanks. Regent White participated in the meeting by phone.
Interim President White called the meeting to order.  He noted that he had
previously stated he would dedicate his service as interim president to the memories of
the University of Michigan alumni who died in the attacks of September 11, 2001, and he
read the names of the 17 alumni and two other individuals: David Alger (MBA 1968),
Yeneney Betru (MD 1995), Brian Dale (JD 1991), Paul Friedman (MSE 1983), James
Gartenberg (LSA 1987), Steven Goldstein (LSA 1988), Darya Lin (BSE, MSE 1991),
Todd Ouida (LSA 1998), Laurence Polatsch (LSA 1990), Stephen Emanuel Poulos
(BMUS 1977, MMUS 1978), Gregory Richards (LSA 1992), Josh Rosenthal (LSA
1979), Christina Ryook (LSA 1998), Meta Fuller Waller (BGS, UM-Dearborn, 1973),
Scott Weingard (BBS 1993), Meredith Whalen (BBA 2000), and Marc Zeplin (LSA 1990
and MBA 1993). He also noted the deaths of Ted Adderley, son of Business School
graduate and visiting committee member Terrence Adderley, and Brad Hoorn, son of
Kathy and Denny Hoorn of Richland, Michigan. On behalf of the University of Michigan
Board of Regents, Interim President White extended "our heartfelt sympathy and the love
of our community to the loved ones of these alumni and friends."
As an example of how individuals are coping with their losses, Interim President
White displayed a book sent to him by Kathy Hoorn, a third grade teacher in Richland,
Michigan and mother of Brad Hoorn, comprised of letters written by her students to
President Bush expressing their feelings about the events of September 11th.
Interim President White noted that he had received hundreds of emails in response
to his University-wide email welcoming people back to campus following the winter
break. He read passages from two of the emails, one from an undergraduate student
describing how much she is benefiting from her University of Michigan experience and
commending the University for its efforts in the life sciences, and another from a faculty
member offering his view of what is important about the University of Michigan. He
recommended that leaders should "keep [their] eye on the long-term, always the
long-term. Remember our grandchildren." Interim President White offered this advice as
a theme for the Regents' Meeting.
Resolution in Honor of Lisa A. Tedesco
Interim President White called on Regent McGowan, who called Vice President
Tedesco to the podium. Regent McGowan observed that during her tenure as an executive
officer, Lisa Tedesco has "exhibited all the passion and accomplishment of a scholar, the


157




January Meeting, 2002


professionalism of an executive, and the sense of humor so necessary in an intense and
significant institution." Regents' Resolutions, she noted, are reserved for individuals who
have made "an utterly unique contribution to the people of the University, or in her case, the
world," through her academic work as a psychologist in the School of Dentistry. She then
read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the Universi't of Michigan commend and express
their gratitude to Lisa A. Tedesco for her leadership as interim provost
and executive vice president for academic affairs.
As the University's chief acadeic and budgetary officer, she
skillfully applied her extensive knowledge of the University and
excellent judgment to the broad range of responsibilities that come
under the purview of the provost.
Dr. Tedesco worked with the deans to advance important
academic initiatives, including the final report of the President's
Commission on the Undergraduate Experience; continued support for
the Lifj Sciences, Values, and Society Program; and departmental and
curricular improvements in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts. She also was instrumental in advising students on their campaign
for the addition of a frill study break to the academic calendar.
Following the September 1 l terrorist attacks on the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon, members of the Universi7t communint
benefited greatly froin Dr. Tedesco's compassion, sensitivity, and
insight.
Dr.   Tedesco  enthusiastically  embraced  the  additional
responsibilities of interim provost while simultaneously performing her
duties cs vice president and secretary of the University, including
assisting the Regents with the presidential search.
With admiration and affection, the Regents thank Dr. Lisa A.
Tedesco for her service as interim provost and executive vice president
for academic affairs and look forward to continuing to benefit from her
wisdom and leadership.
A round of applause followed. Vice President Tedesco commented that a Regents
Resolution is the highest honor the University can bestow. She thanked the Regents and
noted that she looks forward to continuing her service on behalf of the University.
Appointment of Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Paul N. Courant as interim provost and executive
vice president for academic affairs.
Interim President White also noted the appointment of Lester Monts, senior vice
provost for academic affairs, as senior counselor for the arts, diversity, and
undergraduate affairs to the interim president.


158




January Meeting, 20)02


Annual Report on Research
Vice President Ulaby first presented a video titled "The Impact of Research on
Society," which examined how the research training provided to University of Michigan
students provides the foundation that may lead to great discoveries and innovative
applications of technology; what basic research is and the fundamental knowledge it seeks
to discover; how knowledge is used in the service of society through applied research; and
what steps can be taken to facilitate the transfer of knowledge and discoveries into the
private sector (i.e., technology transfer). The video presented a number of University of
Michigan graduates who had gone on to illustrious careers, described the work of several
current faculty members, and gave examples of companies that had been formed as a result
of the University's technology transfer initiatives.
Next, Vice President Ulaby presented details about research funding, including an
overview of research expenditures and awards, academic units with large research
programs, answers to the question of why the University of Michigan's research program
is so successful, and the costs and obligations of a successful research program. He
noted that for 2001, research expenditures totaled $591.7 million, an increase of 8.5%
over the prior year. For the first five months of FY 2002, expenditures are up 10.4%
over FY 2001. After accounting for inflation, the University's research expenditures are
increasing at an annual rate of about 5%.
In FY 2001, federal sources accounted for 68.6% of research expenditures and
University funds accounted for 16.6%. The remainder of funding was provided from a
variety of other sources, including industry, foundations, and trade and professional
associations.
Vice President Ulaby reviewed the research expenditures of the academic units with
large research programs, including the Medical School, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the College of Engineering. He also highlighted the academic
units experiencing exceptional growth in research expenditures from external sources in
2001, which include the Institute for Social Research (13.2% increase); the School of
Public Health (16.5% increase); and the School of Education (30.5% increase).
Vice President Ulaby explored the question of why the University's research
program is so successful, and noted that four factors contribute to this success: the
University's interdisciplinary culture, infrastructure support and development,
responsiveness to federal initiatives on the part of staff in Ann Arbor and Washington,
and OVPR's organizational role in nurturing new research areas.
Vice President Ulaby concluded that sustaining such a comprehensive research
program requires a significant amount of support from the institution, in the form of
administrative support, facilities, and infrastructure.
Interim President White noted that he had recently visited the Kellogg Eye Center,
and was impressed that it contained, under one roof, the highest quality of patient care,
teaching, and leading-edge research laboratories.
Board of Regents Governance Structure
Regent Brandon commented that recently there had been informal discussion among
the Regents regarding the structure of the board and its overall governance practices. The


159




January Meeting, 2002


objective is to explore use of time-tested practices that might improve the Regents' overall
effectiveness. He noted that the Regents have done research on how other institutions
operate, including other Michigan universities, other Big Ten institutions, and other peer
institutions across the country. Possibilities that are being explored, which are in place at
the majority of other institutions, include the creation of a chair and vice chair who would
be elected by the Board, and the implementation of a committee structure. He stated that
although the details still need to be worked out, "it would be my hope and expectation that
at our February meeting we may be able to bring more specifics in the form of amendments
to our bylaws" which would be necessary to implement the desired changes. He noted that
the Regents would like to receive input on these notions from any interested individuals.
Regent McGowan commented that while she agrees that it is time for the Board to
discuss how it might organize to improve the efficacy of its efforts, two commitments
have been made over the interim period: the continuity of the University and the
enormous effort required by the presidential search. She stated that although she supports
beginning an exploration of this idea, she believes that because of the number of different
proposals that have been suggested, she believes that a more appropriate time to consider
them would be after a new president has assumed the presidency, given that some of the
proposals would greatly impact the role of the president and the executive officers. She
emphasized that changing the bylaws should be carefully considered and done at the
appropriate time, after the selection of the new president.
Regent Deitch thanked Regent Brandon for taking a leadership role on this issue. He
commented that Regent Brandon had brought to the board a talent for leadership and an
understanding of process and how effective organizations work. Given that the Regents
need to work as effectively as possible, he believes adding some structure to the process
will be efficacious. He observed that the Regents are an anomaly in the corporate and
non-profit worlds and in the world of University governing boards by not having the
committee and leadership structures being proposed by Regent Brandon.
Presidential Search
Regent Deitch reported that the Presidential Search Committee (PSC) had met with the
Presidential Search Advisory Committee (PSAC) earlier today to present a charge to the
PSAC and to establish Presidential Selection Criteria (See Appendix A, 185), and as chair
of the PSC he was now submitting these documents to be made part of the Regents
Proceedings. He commented about the high quality of the search committee membership
and noted that they are a thoughtful group of individuals who are excited about having the
opportunity to serve in this capacity.
Regent Horning thanked Regent Deitch for his efforts on behalf of the presidential
search during the past several months.
President's House
Regent Deitch noted that the President's House serves as a focal point for campus life,
and the presidential transition period seems to be an appropriate time to do a survey of the
physical condition of the President's House. He requested that Executive Vice President
Kasdin conduct an evaluation of the house and provide the Regents with a description of the
scope and budget for the work that needs to be done to keep it fresh and important in the life
of the campus.


160




January Meeting, 2002


Consent Agenda
Minutes.  Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the
December 13, 2001 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Investment, Plant
Extension, Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and the Regents Quarterly Report
on Non-Competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources, September 22, 2001
through December 14, 2001.
Littigatin Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research    Report.  Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for November 29 - December 31, 2001.
University of  ichigan Health System  Executive Vice President Omenn reported
that the state and national economic conditions are having an impact on the health system,
creating stress for health insurance, Medicaid, and Medicare programs. He noted that the
Biomedical Science Research Building site is about to be cleared in preparation for the
start of construction.
Division of Student Affairs Vice President Harper stated that she had nothing to
report.
University of Michigan-Dearborn   Chancellor Little noted that the Dearborn
campus was embarking on a project to update the campus' comprehensive master plan.
He also commented on recent achievements by faculty members and students. Interim
President White reported that he had had a wonderful visit to the campus and would be
returning soon to learn more about the master planning process and to meet with
Dearborn-area Arab-American community leaders.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas noted that Interim President
White had been extremely well received during his visit to the Flint campus in December.
MSA Report. MSA president Matt Nolan reported that MSA members have been
advocating expansion of the hours that the Central Campus Recreation Building is open.
He reported that for the first two evenings the building stayed open until 1:30 a.m., it had
been heavily used by students. He also noted that MSA is conducting its biannual review
of the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities and would be proposing
amendments. Finally, Mr. Nolan reported that MSA is experimenting with changing the
way it allocates funds to student organizations from providing funds once per semester to
setting up three separate funding cycles throughout the semester.
Interim President White commented that he will be holding monthly meetings with
the MSA president and vice president and that he also is planning to host a dinner for
student leaders.
Voluntary Support. Vice President Feagin submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for December 2001.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for support in the Medical School, the Schools of Nursing and Public Health, and
the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... $ 25,000


161




January Meeting, 2002


Barry A. Adelman, New York, New York
20,430 shares of Deutsch Telekom common stock
for the Barry A. Adelman Scholarship in the Law School............................ 347,310
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 13,000
Mrs. Sony Agarwal, San Jose, California
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000
Bruce B. Allen, Kentfield, California
350 shares of Adobe Systems, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  11,356
Marjorie Alpern Trust
215 shares of Philip Morris Companies, Inc., common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Funds in the Medical School....................... 10,060
Alpha Xi Delta, Ann Arbor
for the Alpha Xi Delta Scholarship............................................... 50,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 149,081
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 103,888
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 70,278
American Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 25,000
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 59,852
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 25,000
George E. Anderson, Franklin
for the Class of 1931 Engineers' Scholarship in the College of Engineering............. 14,246
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
for research in the College of Engineering.......................................  250,000
Anonymous Donor
for history of art support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 100,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................  100,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 20,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 40,000
Eugene Applebaum Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Eugene Applebaum Professorship in the School of Business Administration..... 100,000
Frank J. Arnold, Saint Clair
1,475 shares of CSX Corporation common stock
for the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund in the Medical School................ 51,441
Eric R. Arnson, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the U of M Club of Chicago Scholarship and
for the M ichigan Leadershape Institute............................................ 42,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 26,250
AT&T Labs, Florham Park, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering.........................................  20,000
Ann Edmunds Avery, Grand Rapids
500 shares of Nestle common stock
for the Avery Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Charles W. Edmunds Fund in the Medical School................................ 25,613
Stephen S. Baits, Rockford, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  10,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Baldwin Fellowship in Astronomy in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts...........................................................  10,000
John M. Barnes, Evansville, Indiana
200 shares of Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 15,955
Frank W. Batsch, Naples, Florida
600 shares of Lancaster Colony Corporation common stock
for the Barbara and Frank Batsch Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..... 20,787


162




January Meeting 2002


Steven C. Benz, Adrian
263 shares of Mellon Financial Corporation common stock
for the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund.................................... 10,190
Terry J. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Merck and Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Harold F. Falls Professorship and the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center
Building Fund in the Medical School.............................................  15,807
Berlex Laboratories, Inc., Montville, New Jersey
for the Robert and Heather Urich Research and Patient Care Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................... 10,000
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for the Betz Family Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for the Richard A. Flinn Scholarship and other support in the College of Engineering..... 52,000
R. H. Bluestein and Coin any, Birmingham
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
H. Lee Blumbere, West Islip, New York
270 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the H. Lee and JoAnn Blumberg Scholarship and for support in the Law School....... 10,666
Bonisteel Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 40,000
John R. Boyd, Orchard Lake
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 20,000
BP Amoco Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 12,000
Carl A. Brauer, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund.......................................... 10,000
George R. Brotherton, New Orleans, Louisiana
for the George Brotherton Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.................... 20,000
Robert A. Browne, Indianapolis, Indiana
320 shares of Eli Lilly and Company common stock
for scholarships in the Medical School..                                   26,334
Edmund B. Brownell, Flint
for the Edmund B. and Eleanor E. Brownell Fund in the Medical School................ 15,000
John T. Buck Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 15,000
Bugas Fund, Jackson
for the Charles G. Harris Fund in the Medical School................................ 25,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 30,000
The Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for support at the University of Michigan- Dearborn................................ 70,500
John W. Butler, Jr. and John M. Vanderlinden, Chicago, Illinois
for the Lucille Miller and John W. Butler, Sr. Fund in the Law School.................. 15,000
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering
for the Alumni Association, the Department of Athletics, the Clements Library,
the Michigan League, the Museum of Art, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for Under raduate Student Aid, in memory of Tom Coates and Alene Gilmore........... 10,750
Mary Ann Capoferi Trust
428 shares of Verizon Communications common stock
for the Alfred J. and Mary Ann Capoferi Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics. 20,730
Laurie K. Carr Trust
for the Lloyd H. Carr Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...................... 50,000
Thomas B. Case, Olympia Fields, Illinois
500 shares of Citi roup, Inc., common stock
for support in the lepartment of Athletics......................................... 26,638
CFI Group, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................... 10,000
Walter H. Channing Trust
for research in the Medical School............................................... 24,000
Chevron Products Company, Concord, California
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 10,000
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Business Administration................................. 25,000
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 350,000


163




January Meeting, 2002


Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 12,400
College on Problems of Drug Dependence, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the M edical School........................................... 10,764
Collegiate Sorosis Foundation, Birmingham
for support in the Center for the Education of Women and
for the Alumnae Council Collegiate Sorosis Endowed Scholarship at
the University  of Michigan............................                 135,000
Committee to Protect Journalists, Inc., New York, New York
for fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................. 62,500
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 35,276
Jane Wilson Coon Trust
for the William W. Coon Fund in the Medical School............................... 10,000
Peter B. Corr Trust
for the University Musical Society................................................. 10,000
Richard C. Creal, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for the Richard Creal Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  School of Education........................................................  10,000
Gayle C. Crick, Indianapolis, Indiana
360 shares of Eli Lilly and Company common stock
for the William T. and Norma J. Crick Scholarship and other support in
the  College  of Pharm acy.......................................................  28,177
Carolyn L. Crosby, Fort Wayne, Indiana
280 shares of Electronic Data Systems Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Louis and Margaret Crosby Scholarship.................................... 34,403
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 67,571
John E. Dahlgren, Punta Gorda, Florida
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital, in memory of Hilda and Harley Miles............ 20,000
Dennis A. Dahlmann, Ann Arbor
196 shares of Bank of America Corporation common stock
for the Dahlmann Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and
for the P. Gregory Peck Memorial Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy............. 12,105
Daimler Chrysler Corporation, Auburn Hills
for support in the School of Social Work and the Transportation Research Institute and
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 41,500
Daimler Chrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 42,940
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
260 shares of Alltel Corporation common stock for
support in the Department of Athletics and the Schools of
Business Administration and Education...........................................  16,150
Raymond F. Decker, Ann Arbor
for the Class of 1952 Scholarship in the College of Engineering and
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens............................................... 10,050
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for the Al Renfrew Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 15,000
Florence Stevens Delano, La Jolla, California
for the Michigan League and
for the M artha Cook  Residence Hall.............................................. 10,100
Dell Computer, Round Rock, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 20,000
Delta Dental Plan of Michigan, Lansing
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................  30,400
Roberta DeMott-Friberg, Ann Arbor
for the  Clem ents L ibrary.......................................................  10,000
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship Fund and other support in
the  College  of Engineering...................................................... 31,000
Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Hooker, Cook and DeVos Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy... 250,000
Joann Diebolt Trust
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 100,000
Herbert D. Doan, Midland
for the Ruth Dow Doan Professorship and Directorship in the Medical School.......... 87,000


164




January Meeting, 2002


Herbert and Junia Doan Foundation, Midland
for the Ruth Dow Doan Professorship and Directorship in the Medical School.......... 80,000
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
1,000 shares of Merrill Lynch and Company common stock
for the Robert J. Donia Chair Challenge Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................................................ 53,180
Doshay Family Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration.... 50,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for Gifts Pending Designation and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  41,132
David G. Drake, Fenton
for the James R. Hayward Professorship and other support in the School of Dentistry.... 15,000
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for fellowships in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts....................................................  26,604
Edgemere Enterprises Inc., Bloomfield Hills
25,192 shares of Independent Bank Corporation common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment Funds in
the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment....... 712,934
Gayle E. Ellias, White Lake
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  15,000
Epker-Percival Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Erb Foundation, Bloomfield
3,500 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment Funds in
the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment and
for the University Musical Society.............................................. 240,410
Fashion Footwear Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer C e n  te    r................................. 235,000
Janette Ferrantino, Ann Arbor
8,160 shares of Allied Waste Industries common stock for
research  in  the M edical School.................................................  119,422
Russell H. Fifield Trust
for the W. K. Kellogg  Eye Center................................................  10,000
Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Department of Athletics, the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning and
for Undergraduate  Student Aid................................................... 52,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
3,678 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Robert B. Fiske, Jr. Fellowship Program in Public Service in the Law School.... 199,812
Fitch, Inc., Ann Arbor
for WUOM.................................................................. 10,117
Ford Motor Company Central Accounting Services, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering, the School of Natural Resources and
Environment, and the Transportation Research Institute.............................. 28,000
George B. Foussianes, New York, New York
for the Foussianes Family Scholarship and other support in the Department of Athletics... 22,000
Samuel and Jean Frankel Fund of the United Jewish Foundation of Metro Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Frankel Family Graduate Student Aid Fund and
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 53,750
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the S. Shetzer Endowed Chair in Jewish American Studies in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 162,500
Ronald Freedman Trust
for the Ronald Freedman Fund in the Institute for Social Research,
for the Alfred Sussman Symposium Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, in memory of Alfred S. Sussman, and
for support in the Medical School, in memory of Deborah Freedman, and
in  honor of Lynn  Stern.........................................................  22,200
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Frey Foundation Fellowship Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.. 500,000
Peter and Evelyn Fuss Charitable Trust, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  10,000


165




January Meeting 2002


Peri Gagalis, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 13,500
David M. Garvin, Larchmont, New York
800 shares of Six Flaggs, Inc., common stock
for the W. K. Kellogg  Eye Center................................................  11,408
Genevieve Arlene Gay, Flint
for the Genevieve Gay Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  School of Education........................................................  15,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
28,100 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for facilities support in the College of Engineering............................... 1, 033,518
Paul W. Gikas Trust
for the John and Minnie Gikas Fellowship in the Medical School...................... 25,000
GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for support in  the M edical  chool................................................ 50,000
GlaxoSmithKline, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Stefan S. Fajans Professorship in the Medical School........................ 250,000
Gordon Food Service, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Professorship in the School of
Business A dm inistration........................................................ 25,000
Graduate "M" Club, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 15,810
Howard Green, Beverl Hills, California
for the Howard Green Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the  University  of M ichigan...................................................... 12,500
William Curtis Greer, Livingston, New Jersey
for the Curtis W. Greer Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............ 50,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Pass A Grill Beach, Florida
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 10,000
Guidant Foundation, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the College of Engineering and the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  50,040
Guide Corporation, Pendleton, Indiana
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
for the Jacob W. Haas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................... 30,000
Edmund H. Hagan, Tucson, Arizona
1,313 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry.................... 51,424
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the William and Lois Halliday Scholarship in the Law School and
for the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................  10,050
Jean R. Hamill, Plymouth
200 shares of Citigroup Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Jean Hamill Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School. 10,000
Robert Suttle Hansen Residuary Trust
for support of the University  of Michigan.........................................  21,580
Harlan Foundation, Williamsburg
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  10,000
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
300 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 20,055
Mary T. Hawkins Trust
for the  University  Hospitals.................................................... 523,069
James C. Hays, Atlanta, Georgia
for the James C. Hays Scholarship in the Medical School............................ 15,000
Hugh E. Henshaw, Petoskey
for the Wandalie Henshaw  Scholarship...........................................  30,000
W. Paul Hoenle Foundation, Inc., Sarasota, Florida
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Dudley K. Holmes, Jr., Chelsea
3,000 shares of Borders Group, Inc., common stock
for the Holmes Fund in the M edical School........................................ 56,130
Jon R. Holt, Mound, Minnesota
for the Jon R. and Beverly S. Holt Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering...... 150,000


166




January Meeting, 2002


Charles W. House, Tucson, Arizona
for the Charles W. House Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 10,000
William Fred Hunting, Jr., Andover, New Hampshire
216 shares of Lincoln National Corporation common stock
for support of the  Law   School...................................................  10,114
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for support in  the  School of Dentistry...........................................  125,455
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., Harrison, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the University Library...................................................... 96,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 35,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  75,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 65,000
Verne G. Istock, Chicago, Illinois
1,330 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Judith A. Istock Scholarship and other support in the School of Music and
for support in the Department of Athletics, the School of Business Administration, and
the Colleges of Education and Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 55,319
Jagdish C. Janveja, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 20,000
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 20,620
Jentes Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School...................... 210,150
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation Fund in the Medical School............. 230,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School and the School of Public Health.................. 239,313
Johnson and Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Thomas C. Jones, Bloomfield
2,000 shares of Cigna Corporation common stock
for the Thomas C. Jones Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 185,500
Peter T. Joseph Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Josh Rosenthal Endowed Education Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, in memory of Josh Rosenthal....................................... 18,000
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
the Transportation  Research  Institute.............................................  21,000
Darnell Kaigler, Detroit
for the Lee W. Jones Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry..................... 44,550
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for the Snip Nalan Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................ 30,000
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
300 shares of American Home Products Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Katcher Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund,
for the Richard and Shirley Katcher Family Scholarship in the Law School,
and for support in the Department of Athletics.....................................  23,734
Charles S. Kennedy III, Grosse Pointe
682 shares of Eastman Kodak Company,
166 shares of Eastman Chemical Company common stock, and a cash gift
for the Charles S. and Charles S., Jr. Kennedy Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 27,724
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund, Pasadena, California
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund....................................... 1,000,000
Miles S. King, Boulder, Colorado
40 shares of Procter and Gamble Company
and 126 shares of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., common stock
for the Thomas J. Evans Memorial Scholarship..................................... 10,000
Thomas C. Kinnear, Ann Arbor
for the Connie and Tom Kinnear Endowment Fund in the School of
Business Administration and
for support in the Center for the Education of Women............................... 12,650
Rhea K. Kish Trust
for the Leslie Kish Fund in the Institute for Social Research.......................... 13,000


167




January Meeting 2002


Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the  University  H ospitals.....................................................  15,415
Carl A. Kreager, Fort Meyers, Florida
606 shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock and a cash gift
for the Carl Kreager Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Departments of Athletics and Kinesiology, the Schools of Education and
Art and Design, the Clements Library and the University Library...................... 50,000
Krips Family Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Krips Endowment Fund in the School of Education........................... 15,000
Josephine Kugel Foundation, Inc., McLean, Virginia
200 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Josephine Kugel Foundation Scholarship in the Medical School................. 14,993
Frank Lamberson Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Frank A. Lamberson Distinguished Lecturer Fund in the Medical School......... 25,000
Kent H. Landsberg Foundation, Temecula, California
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 18,000
Lannan Foundation, Santa Fe, New Mexico
for the  M useum   of Art.........................................................  30,000
Judith C. Leondar, Kingston, New Jersey
210 shares of Johnson and Johnson common stock
for the Dr. Ralph E. Bennett Herbarium Fund and the Dr. Ralph E. Bennett Biological
Station Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 11,957
Levitt Family Foundation, Englewood, New Jersey
for the Levitt Family Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 10,000
Seymour Lieberman, New York, New York
4,080 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Daniel Katz Graduate Award Fund in the Institute for Social Research........... 100,481
Daniel E. Lipschutz, Ann Arbor
for the Daniel Lipschutz, M.D., Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate
benefit of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies........................ 10,000
Elizabeth J. Loessel, Chesterfield, Missouri
95.72 units of Vanguard 500 Index Fund mutual fund
for support in  the  School of M usic..............................................  10,069
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Ann and Robert Lurie Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Social W ork......................................... 100,000
Chalmers J. Lyons Academy of Oral Surgery, Southfield
for the Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry................... 10,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Social W ork......................................... 29,000
Sylvia Majkowski, Redford
754 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for the Ted M ajkowski Scholarship............................................... 35,449
Malloure Family Foundation, Beverly Hills
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  100,000
Nora A. Maloy, Ann Arbor
for the Bernard Patrick Maloy Award for Excellence in Writing Fund in
the Division of Kinesiology, in memory of Bernard Patrick Maloy.................... 10,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 36,409
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for  W U O M................................................................... 20,000
Loretta Matthews Memorial Fund, Riverview
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Loretta Matthews................... 17,000
Herbert H. McDade, III, Rye, New York
370 shares of State Street Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 24,644
Carmen J. McGrae, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of State Street Corporation common stock
for Gifts Pending  Designation...................................................  51,870
Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway, New Jersey
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 20,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School and
for scholarships in the School of Dentistry.......................................  145,000
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
175 shares of Wal-Mart, Inc., common stock
for the Mildred McIntosh Dance Scholarship in the School of Music................... 10,000


168




January Meeting, 2002


Michigan Dental Association, Lansing
for support in  the School of Dentistry............................................  20,400
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 10,000
David L. Miller, Grand Blanc
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Dentistry................. 10,000
Joel S. Mindel, New York, New York
for the Harold F. Falls Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School................ 50,000
John C. Morley, Cleveland, Ohio
758 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the B. Joseph and Mary White UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in
the School of Business Administration........................................... 24,688
Julia S. Morris, Ann Arbor
685 shares of National City Corporation,
1,400 shares of SBC Communications, Inc., common stock, and a cash gift
for the Cameron Haight Lectureship in the Medical School and
for the  Nichols Arboretum.....................................................  75,714
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.................................... 539,400
Janet S. Mueller, Saint Peter, Minnesota
for the  Clem ents Library.......................................................  10,000
James H. Mulchay, Saint Petersburg, Florida
1,100 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Don Lund and Ray Fisher Baseball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and
for the  Nichols Arboretum......................................................  18,630
Donald J. Munro, Ann Arbor
for the Tang Junyi Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the  Nichols Arboretum...................................................... 50,150
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  15,000
Homer A. Neal, Ann Arbor
for the Homer A. and Donna J. Neal Endowment Fund............................... 10,000
Robert D. Neary, Naples, Florida
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Fund in the School of Business Administration and
the Colleae of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 90,000
Sarah W. Newman, Ithaca, New York
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women........................... 10,000
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in  the  School of Dentistry............................................  34,600
Harold A. Oberman, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School and
for the  University  M usical Society...............................................  10,550
Eric A. Oesterle, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 14,000
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
943 shares of Johnson and Johnson common stock
for the Ronald L. and Jane Olson Fund in the Law School............................. 56,217
William P. O'Neill, Washington, D.C.
for support of the  Law   School...................................................  10,000
William W. O'Neill, Grosse Pointe Farms
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Ann Arbor
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry.................... 10,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Rosemont, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 24,377
Vern C. and Ruth Owen Trust
for support in the School of Nursing.............................................. 62,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for geological sciences research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 62,500
Stuart and Barbara Padnos Foundation, Holland
for the Barbara Padnos Fund in the Medical School and
for  W U O M.................................................................  100,120
Alfred J. Palmer, Beverly Hills
for the  Alum ni Association.....................................................  24,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for the Elsa U. Pardee Funds in the Medical School................................ 100,641
Ara G. Paul, Ann Arbor
385 shares of Schering Plough Corporation common stock
for the James W. Richards Scholarship and other support in the College of Pharmacy,


169




January Meeting, 2002


for the Alfred Sussman Symposium Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
for the Department of Athletics, and
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 14,795
Ralph R. Peachman Estate
for the Captain Ralph R. and Florence M. Peachman Fund in the College of Engineering... 50,000
Steven W. Percy, Akron, Ohio
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration25,150
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Pharmacy and the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for the University  M usical Society.............................................. 137,000
Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  Arts.......................................................... 80,000
Mitchell Pincus, Edina, Minnesota
200 shares of Dow Jones Company Class A common stock
for the Dr. Mitchell Pincus Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the University of Michigan and
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  11,757
Herbert and Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for the Kresge Hearing Research  Institute.........................................  15,000
Allan T. Popelka, Pacific Palisades, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Power Technologies, Inc., Schenectady, New York
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................ 12,500
Wolfert H. Prieskorn Estate
for support of the University of Michigan........................................  550,000
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for the Yvonne S. Quinn and Ronald S. Rolfe Scholarship in the Law School............. 25,000
James W. Rae, Leland
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 25,000
Jo E. Rahaim, Ann Arbor
for the Samuel and Jo Ellen Rahaim Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Social W ork and for W UOM........................................ 10,100
Edward Ravitz Foundation, Southfield
for the Norman Mette Scholarship and other support in the Medical School............ 145,000
Ralph E. Reins, West Bloomfield
for the Ralph E. and Victoria L. Reins Fund in the College of Engineering............... 10,000
Research Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 30,000
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Professorship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 120,000
William B. Richards, Dublin, Ohio
238 shares of Intel Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Margaret I. and B. William Richards Memorial Scholarship in
the  College  of Engineering...................................................... 10,000
Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc., Greensboro, North Carolina
for research in the School of Business Administration.............................. 129,305
Margaret A. Riecker, Midland
for the Margaret A. and John E. Riecker Law Library Fund in the Law School and
for support in the Center for the Education of Women............................... 12,500
Richard 0. Rieger, Bedford, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 15,000
Kenneth J. Robinson, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judy and Ken Robinson Endowment in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........ 12,600
Richard D. and Ann C. Rohr Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan
for the Pierre V. Heftler Scholarship Fund in the Law School......................... 10,000
Ronald S. Rolfe, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Yvonne S. Quinn and Ronald S. Rolfe Scholarship in the Law School............. 25,000
Marilynn M. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
180 shares of Johnson and Johnson common stock
for the Josh Rosenthal Endowed Education Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, in memory of Josh Rosenthal....................................... 10,103
Prudence L. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
180 shares of Merck and Company, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Center for the Education of Women, the Museum of Art and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  10,947
Joseph E. Rowe, Palm City, Florida
for the Class of 1951 Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering, and
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 10,100


170




January Meeting 2002


Clarence A. Samuelson, Saline
for the C.A. Samuelson Endowment Fund in the School of Natural Resources and
Environm ent..................................................................  12,000
Arsen K. Sanjian, Bloomfield Hills
for the Arsen Sanjian Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 15,000
Elizabeth M. Schamp Trust
for support in the Medical School................................................ 10,000
Patricia C. Schemm Charitable Trust
for the Ferdinand Ri ley Schemm Fund in the Medical School........................ 76,135
Albert G. and Olive H. Sch ink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for the Albert G. Schlink Fund in the Institute of Gerontology......................... 11,000
Madeleine T. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the Schneider Lectureship Fund in the Medical School........................... 20,000
Hilma R. Schwer Trust
for support of the University of Michigan........................................ 210,000
Paul F. Sefcovic, Columbus, Ohio
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Schools of Law and Music........... 10,500
Benson P. and Norma L. Shapiro Fund of the Fleet Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Norma L. Shapiro Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Fellowship in Chemical Engineering in the College of Engineering......... 29,108
Marion Sherwood Trust
for support of the University of Michigan........................................ 133,055
Langley R. Shook, Washington, D.C.
for support of the Law School................................................... 10,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Herbert Sloan Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund............................................. 50,000
Ernestine Smith, Flint
for the Ernestine R. Smith Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint......... 15,000
Philip L. Smith, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration..                     10,000
Stanley A. Simith, Okemos
for the James E. Harris Endowment Fund in the School of Dentistry................... 50,000
Susan Meredith Smith, Ann Arbor
637 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Susan Meredith Smith Fund and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts,
for the Northville U of M Club Scholarship,
for the Clements Library, and
for the Michigan League........................................................ 20,524
Smith Group JJR, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 25,000
Haley Sperling Memorial Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Haley H. Sperling Memorial Scholarship Fund in the Colleges of Engineering
and Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................. 27,570
Stanley S. Stroup, San Francisco, California
300 shares of Wells Fargo and Company common stock
for support of the Law School................................................... 13,050
John W. Sweetland, Los Angeles, California
for the Gayle Morris weetland Writing Center in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.262,500
Nancy A. Symons, Elyria, Ohio
140 shares of Procter and Gamble common stock
for the Dan Baker Symons Scholarship for the Michigan League,
for the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Stud'es,
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the Martha Cook Building Fund..                                        10,536
Tauber Family Foundation, Southfield
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowment Funds in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering...................................................... 39,600
T/J Technologies, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 15,749
Myron E. Teegardin Trust
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................. 133,631
Florence H. Thomas, New Smyrna Beach, Florida
225 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for support of the Law School................................................... 10,287


171




January Meeting, 2002


W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickley, Pennsylvania
375 shares of JP Morgan Chase and Company common stock
for the W. Bruce Thomas Law Library Endowment in the Law School................. 14,991
Robert M. Thompson, Plymouth
for the Ellen and Robert Thompson Endowment Fund in the Medical School........... 500,000
Preston R. Tisch #2 Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the P. Robert Tisch Tennis Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 150,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Tisch Endowment for the Dean in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. 600,000
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
for the Richard F. Towner Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the  College  of Engineering...................................................... 10,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Research Fund in the Medical School and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  15,460
Toyota Motor Manufacturing of North America Inc., Erlanger, Kentucky
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 20,000
Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for the Toyota MBA Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
Toys 'R' Us Children's Fund, Inc., Montvale, New Jersey
for the C. S. M ott Children's Hospital............................................  50,000
Arthur L Tuuri Health Fund of the Community Foundation of Greater Flint,
Flint for the Flint Physical Therapy Program at the University of Michigan-Flint......... 18,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, D.C.
for the U of M Club of Washington D.C. Scholarship................................ 10,000
Doug T. and Laurie J. Valassis, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the George F. Valassis Endowed Scholarship in the School of Business Administrationp 25,000
George F. Valassis Charitable Lead Trust
for the Valassis Professorship and other support in the Medical School............... 250,000
Van Vlack Family Charitable Trust
for the Van Vlack Undergraduate Laboratory Equipment Fund in
for the College of Engineering, and
for the M artha Cook Building Fund.............................................. 260,000
David L. VerLee, Holland
3,886 shares of Republic Bancorp, Inc., common stock
for the W.K. Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund.................................... 51,081
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School................. 50,000
Ellen C. Wagner, Ann Arbor
775 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Richard A. Epstein Fund in the Medical School............................... 28,547
H. Carl Walker, Kalamazoo
500 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  28,935
Patricia F. Waller, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
392 shares of Royal Bank of Canada common stock and a cash gift
for the Patricia F. Waller Scholarship and
for support in the Center for the Education of Women............................... 12,444
Gail and Lois Warden Fund of the Community Foundation for S.E. Michigan, Detroit
for the Walter J. McNerney Leadership Award Fund in the School of Public Health...... 10,000
Robert M. Warner, Ann Arbor
for the Robert and Jane Warner Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Bentley Historical Library and
for support in the Clements Library and the School of Information..................... 36,050
Emil A. Weddige Trust
for the Emil Weddige Scholarship/Fellowship in the School of Art and Design and
for the Juanita Weddige Scholarship in the School of Music......................... 150,000
Patricia A. Werderitsch, Saline
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  10,000
Doreen M. West, Flint
for the University  of M ichigan- Flint.............................................  10,000
Helen M. West, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Merck and Company, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  11,735
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the Schools of Dentistry and Medicine.............................. 135,737
Barbara E. Whitman, Larchmont, New York
for the Carlyon-Whitman Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 10,000


172




January Meeting 2002


Wicha Family Trust
175 shares of Amgen common stock
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 10,159
Rita L. Willis, Tulsa, Oklahoma
2,627 shares of Exxon-Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Rita Willis Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Life Sciences Institute t...................................................... 98,250
Royce E. Wilson, Pacific Islands, California
for the Robert and Heather Urich Research and Patient Care Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center...............................................  11,000
Arlo C. Wolf Estate
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................  10,143
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center...................................  10,000
Richard A. Yarnain, Ann Arbor
for the Richard Yarmain Ice Hockey Scholarship and other support in
the Department of Athletics,
for the Agnes, Harry and Richard Yarmain Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts,
for the Regent Emeritus Deane Baker Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration, and
for support in  the  School of M usic............................................... 51,813
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law  School.................................... 50,000
Elizabeth 0. Yhouse, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Medical School,
the Schools of Business Administration, Music, and Natural Resources and Environment,
the Center for the Education of Women, and the College of Engineering,
for the University Musical Society,
for the Nichols Arboretum, and
for  W U O M...................................................................  12,000
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for support of the  Law   School...................................................  40,000
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell Professorship in the Economics of Risk and
for the Helen Herzog Zell Professorship in Fiction Endowment Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 700,000
Lonny E. Zietz, Ada
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry and
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 11,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Gary Beckman, Ann Arbor
books for the Near Eastern Studies Resource Room
Herbert A. Bernhard, Los Angles, California
art work for the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Gilda Birmingham, West Bloomfield
art work for the Alfred Berkowitz Gallery at the University of Michigan-Dearborn
G. Fredric Boiling, Dearborn
art work for the Alfred Berkowitz Gallery at the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Jay A. Bolt, Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
an automobile and related items for the Lay Auto Lab
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
manuscripts for the Clements Library
Lee F. Driscoll, Jr., Ambler, Pennsylvania
books for the Clements Library
William G. Earle, Key Biscayne, Florida
maps, historic prints and a book for the Clements Library
ERIN Industries, Walled Lake
equipment for the Michigan Mars Rover Team
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
equipment for the College of Engineering
William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor
books for the University Library
Joseph Gutmann, Huntington Woods
books for the University Library
Claribel B. Halstead, Ann Arbor
books for the University Library


173




January Meeting, 2002


Keith B. Hook, Blastonbury, Connecticut
maps for the Clements Library
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
computers and equipment for the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Program
Janice B. Longone, Ann Arbor
books for the Clements Library
James C. Meyer, Pinckney
computer for the Department of Athletics
Roberta R. Price, Ann Arbor
photographs for the Clements Library
Eileen Salter, Hillsboro, Ohio
films, books, and posters for the Program in Film and Video Studies
Mintzi S. Schramm, Southfield
books for the Near Eastern Studies Resource Room
David F. Upton, Saint Joseph
a map for the Clements Library
Doreen M. West, Flint
books and films for the Frances Willson Thompson Library at the University of Michigan-Flint
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
A. Adnan Aswad, Birmingham
Ann E. Avery, Grand Rapids
Daniel Beeghly, Dearborn
Margaret Logue, Detroit
John G. Pedley, Ann Arbor
Ellen N. Stross, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actilons. Interim Provost Courant submitted the following personnel
actions. He noted that the Personnel Actions include the appointment of five department
chairs and interim chairs and commented on their essential roles within the University.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANES
WEITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Fenner, Dee E., M.D., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, January 18,
2002
Gianchandani, Yogesh, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, January 1, 2002
King, W. Michael, Ph.D., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, January 18, 2002
Spindler, Katherine R., Ph.D., Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, January
18, 2002
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PRO1MOTIO)NS FO:R RE(G"ULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANQKS, WITHeOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Galvanauskas, Almantas, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, January 1, 2002
Yang, Dajun, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 18, 2002
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REG ULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATI~E STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Assanis, Dionissios N., Chair, Department of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, January
1, 2002-December 31, 2006
Frier, Bruce W., Interim Chair, Department of Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2002-December 31, 2002


174




January Meeting, 2002


McClanahan, Susan, Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement, UM-Dearborn, February 3,
2002-February 2, 2004
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Erickson, Donna L., Associate Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Urban Planning, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, September
1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Glotzer, Sharon C., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of
Physics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August
31, 2008
Gonzalez, Richard D., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2007
Lawrence, Theodore S., Isadore Lampe Professor of Radiation Oncology and Professor of Radiation
Oncology, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, without
tenure, School of Public Health, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Ljungman, Mats E.D., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Medical School, also
appointed Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, without tenure, School of
Public Health, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
McDonald, Terrence J., Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed Acting Chair, Department of
History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-June 31, 2002
Mulholland, Michael W., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Surgery, Medical School, February 1, 2002
Rehemtulla, Alnawaz, Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Medical School, also
appointed Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, without tenure, School of
Public Health, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2004
Veryser, Thomas J., Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, also appointed Interim Assistant Dean,
Community and Outreach Programs, School of Dentistry, one-year term, November 1, 2001
Worch, Eric A., Asssitant Professor of Education, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of
Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Humane Services, January 1-December 31, 2002
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on February 1, 2002
Establishing Endowed Professorship
Dr. Roy H. Roberts Professorship in Dentistry, School of Dentistry
OTlHER PERSO:NNEL TllRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Aplpointents t  stablished  ofsss  ipsh,
Verdery, Katherine M., Eric R. Wolf Professor of History and Anthropology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2007
Vinovskis, Maris A., A.M. and H.P. Bently Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2007
Rearppointments to Established Pro essorsihWs
Trautmann, Thomas R., Marshall Sahlins Collegiate Professor of History and Anthropology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002
Other Transactions
Courant, Paul N., Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, January 1, 2002
Eron, Leonard D., Interim Assistant Dean of Research, School of Social Work, January 14,
2002-August 31, 2003


175




January Meeting, 2002


COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Engineering  xecutive Comminttee
Gulari, Erdogan, January 1, 2002-June 30, 2003, vice Anthony W. England, sabbatical leave
Universitv Musical Society Boar o  irectors
Charla, Kathleen G., reappointed, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Davis, Hal, new appointment, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
DiCarlo, Sally Stegeman, new appointment, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Kerry, Gloria James, reappointed, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Nacif, Alberto, reappointed, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Neuman, Shirley C., new appointment, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Pittman, Randall, reappointed, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Power, Philip H., new appointment, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Rosenthal, Prudence L., reappointed, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Rumelhart, Judith Dow, new appointment, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Savarino, Maya, reappointed, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Solis, Jorge A., new appointment, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2004
Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Courant submitted the following personnel
reports:
APPOINTMENT OF SENIOR COUNSELOR          FOR THE A1TS, DIVERSITY, AND
UNDERGRADUATE AFFAIRS TO THE INTERIM PRESIDENT
Effective date January 1, 2002
Monts, Lester P., Senior Counselor for the Arts, Diversity, and Undergraduate Affairs to the Interim
President
ADM1INISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EW APlPOINT    MENTS OF REGUL    AR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Duckett, Colin S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology and Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2002
Hartmann, Joseph H., M.D., Lecturer in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, December 1,
2001-November 30, 2002
Hirshbein, Laura D., Ph.D., Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry, Medical School, December 1,
2001-November 30, 2002
Krueger, Cynthia H., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, November 15, 2001-June 30, 2002
Kumble, Peter A., M.S. Lecturer in Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and Environment,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Lyons, Susan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 1-December
31, 2002
Schneider, David A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 2002-August 31, 2004
Vees-Gulani, Susanne H., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INST     UTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Altermatt, Thomas W. from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002


176




January Meeting, 2002


Avi-Yonah, Orli K., Lecturer II in Women's Studies also appointed Lecturer I in Psychology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Pandit, Sujit K., Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2002
Turcotte, Jeremiah G., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, January 1-June 30, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE
Effective on the dates indicated
Bozer, Yavuz A., Professor of Industrial Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
and Goff Smith Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber Manufacturing Institute, School of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Chernew, Michael E., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of
Public Health, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, and
Associate Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Cohen, Michael D., Professor of Political Science, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and
Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2001
Dewar, Margaret E., Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Feliu, Fernando, Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, personal leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Fessler, Jeffrey A., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
and Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and
Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Ford, Richard I., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Professor of Botany, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Fredrickson, Barbara L., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Furnas, George W., Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, and Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Griess, Robert L. Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Herbert, Sharon C., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Kamisar, Yale, Clarence Darrow Distinguished University Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Kazanjian, Powel H., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Kotzian, Nancy A., Lecturer in Business Communications, School of Business Administration, personal
leave, November 1-December 15, 2001
Lachance, Michael A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Luma, Jill B., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
MacKinnon, Catharine A., Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Malamud, Deborah C., James E. and Sarah A. Degan Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Marsh, Patricia A., Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine, Medical School, family medical leave,
November 12-December 31, 2001
Mrazek, Rudolf, Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002


177




January Meeting, 2002


Nassauer, Joan I., Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Ormand, Fred, Professor of Music (Clarinet), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2001
Pollard, Deborah S., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-April
30, 2002
Raman, Kalyan, Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Salant, Stephen W., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Scott, G. Peter, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Senkevitch, Anatole, Jr., Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, and Associate Professor of History of Art, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Smith, Sherril A., Catherine B. Heller Collegiate Professor of Art and Professor of Art, with tenure,
School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Smith, Jonathan, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, scholarly activity leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Tropman, John E., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Wallace, John M. Jr., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
White, Chelsea C., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of
Electrical and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering, personal leave, January
1-December 31, 2002
Wider, Kathleen V., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
TERMIINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Andrew A., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2001
Faix, Roger G., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School,
December 31, 2001
Field, Gregory B., Assistant Professor of History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
December 31, 2001
Jacobson, Jed J., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, November 31,
2001
Kalmar, Pamela J., Lecturer in Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics, UM-Flint College
of Arts and Sciences, January 1, 2002
Modesitt, Kenneth L., Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, December 31, 2001
Watts, Charles M., Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 31,
2001
Retired
Birdsall, William C., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
December 31, 2001
Lauffer, Armand, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, December 31, 2001
Term Completed
Fulton, John W., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2001
Vanderploeg, Glen M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, December 31, 2001
Retirement Memnoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted two faculty retirement
memoirs.


178




January Meeting, 20)02


Rudi Ansbacher, M.D., professor of obstetrics and gynecology, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2001, after a most productive career as a teacher, mentor,
and clinician.
Dr. Ansbacher graduated from Culver Military Academy in 1950 and then went on
to receive his B.A. degree from Virginia Military Institute in 1955, his M.D. degree from
the University of Virginia School of Medicine in 1959, and his M.S. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1970. Between 1959 and 1966, he completed an internship at
the University of Virginia Hospital and residencies at Womack Army Hospital in Fort
Bragg, North Carolina, and at Letterman General Hospital in San Francisco, California.
From 1966-69, he served as a staff physician at the U.S. Army hospital in Okinawa and
completed a postgraduate course at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in
Washington, D.C. From 1969-71, while earning his M.S. degree, he was also a research
fellow at the University of Michigan Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. From
1971-77, he was on the medical staff at Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam Houston,
Texas, and was also a clinical associate professor at the University of Texas Health
Science Center and Baylor College of Medicine. From 1977-80, he served as chief of
obstetrics and gynecology at Letterman Army Medical Center in San Francisco and
clinical associate professor at the University of California, San Francisco. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1980 as professor of obstetrics and gynecology.
During Dr. Ansbacher's tenure at the University of Michigan he has served as
acting and interim chair of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. He has played
an active role in the residency training program and has been a mentor to numerous junior
faculty members. He has over 200 publications in the areas of andrology, infertility, and
climacteric endocrinology, and has been active in numerous professional organizations. In
recognition of his outstanding teaching, Dr. Ansbacher was selected four times by the
graduating resident physicians to receive the Silver Speculum Award: in 1988, 1991,
1996, and 2000.
The Regents salute this faculty member by naming Rudi Ansbacher professor
emeritus of obstetrics and gynecology.
Csaba L. Martonyi, associate professor of medical and biological illustration in the
Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 2000.
Professor Martonyi joined the University of Michigan as a photographer in 1967 and
was appointed director of ophthalmic photography in 1971. He was promoted to instructor
of medical and biological illustration in 1975, assistant professor in 1980, and associate
professor in 1983.
During his career as an ophthalmic photographer, Professor Martonyi used his
intellect, his considerable creative talents, and his technical expertise to help physicians
and patients, to teach residents and fellows, and to create a formal national organization to
train and certify ophthalmic photographers. For many years he taught an annual 40-hour
course on ophthalmic photography to students in the medical and biological illustration
program. He founded the department's Ophthalmic Photography Unit and led it as an
academic and service program of great importance.
Professor Martonyi achieved national prominence as a founding member of the
Ophthalmic Photographers' Society. He helped organize and conduct the first certification
program in retinal angiography and was instrumental in establishing ophthalmic


179




January Meeting, 2002


photography as an integral academic program in departments of ophthalmology around the
country. His efforts as a teacher were tireless, and he influenced countless numbers of
ophthalmic photographers. Within the Ophthalmic Photographers' Society, he served as
member and chair of the Program Committee, Certification Committee, and Education
Committee. He chaired the Board of Certification for six years and was chief examiner for
four; chaired the Society's Continuing Education Program for five years, and organized the
society's first international meeting. During this time, he maintained a full teaching
schedule within the department and co-authored several papers. Over the course of his
career, Professor Martonyi's work has won numerous national honors, and he has received
countless accolades for both his organizational and artistic achievements.
The Regents salute this faculty member by naming Csaba L. Martonyi associate
professor emeritus of medical and biological illustration.
Memorials No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents this
month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Deitch, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
State Building Authority Financing of University of Michigan-Ann Arbor Mason Hall
and Haven Hall Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that the Mason Hall and Haven Hall
Project is attractive and elegant and has enhanced the appearance of the Diag. He also
noted that this project has come in significantly below budget. On a motion by Regent
Horning, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents approved the resolution (See Appendix
B, 191) and authorized the appropriate officers to: a) On or prior to the SBA's issuance of
commercial paper notes, execute the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement
and Bill of Sale for the project; b) At or near completion of the project and prior to the
issuance of the SBA' s bonds, execute the respective Lease, convey title to the property, and
execute any necessary easement agreements; and c) Execute any other documentation
required for the financing of the project by the SBA.
Bentley Historical Library Addition
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Bentley Historical Library Addition Project as described in the
Regents Communication and authorized the appointment of Jickling Lyman Powell
Associates, Inc. as the architect.
Computer and Executive Education Building John R. and Georgene M. Tozzi
Electronic Business and Finance Center
Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that the cost of this project is now
estimated to be significantly less than had originally been anticipated. On a motion by
Regent White, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents authorized issuing the Computer and
Executive Education Building John R. and Georgene M. Tozzi Electronic Business and
Finance Center project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids
are within the approved budget.


180




January Meeting, 2002


University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Hospital Dentistry
Clinic Expansion Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC Hospital Dentistry Clinic Expansion Project as
described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing the bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Acute Dialysis
Program Expansion
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously
approved the UMHHC Acute Dialysis Program Expansion Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
Payment for Services of JDC Promotions
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved payment for the services of JDC Solutions. Because the owner of
JDC Solutions, Julie Cushman, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Contract. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Edward Ginsburg Center for Community Services and Learning, and JDC Solutions.
2.   The service provided was consulting service for evaluators, between May 1, 2001 and
September 30, 2001, at a total cost of $1,600.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Julie Cushman, a University of
Michigan employee, is owner of JDC Solutions.
License  Agreement between      the  University   of Michigan    and   Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc. Because the principal owners of Molecular Therapeutics, Inc., Brian D.
Ross and Alnawaz Rehemtulla, are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Field of Use: Molecular reporter technology for the in vitro and in vivo detection of
protein stabilization.
Grant: Exclusive world-wide license, with a right to grant sublicenses to Technology
as defined by UM File No. 2133.
License Fee: $20,000. Initial payment of $5,000 due upon license execution;
$5,000 due upon the first anniversary of signing. $10,000 due upon the second
anniversary of signing.
Maintenance Fees: $5,000 per year to be credited against all cumulative research
funds related to p53 for a period of 5 years. Subsequent annual fees can then be


181




January Meeting, 2002


offset by royalties.
Equity: No equity will be taken for this license. The University of Michigan has
taken a 3% equity position on the first 12,000 shares issued by Molecular
Therapeutics under a prior license for UM File No. 1835.
Patent Costs: All remaining current and future U.S. and foreign patent costs will be
paid by Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.
Royalties: 3% on Net Sales of Products and 1% on Net Sales of all Services using
this technology. The first -$100,000 in royalties would be offset by patent costs.
Sublicensing royalties will be 3% of Net Sublicense Revenue, provided Molecular
Therapeutics can make available a Net Sublicense Revenue Justification.
Performance criteria: Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the
rights granted by the license.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it as a research tool. No use of University services or
facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is obligated under the
agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Ross and Rehemtulla arise from their ownership in
the company. They have both waived any personal participation in the sharing of
funds received by the University from Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. as a result of this
License Agreement.
Membership Agreement between the Center for Wireless Integrated Microsystems
(WIMS) at the University of Michigan and Integrated Sensing Systems (ISSYS)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved an agreement between the Center for Wireless Integrated
Microsystems and Integrated Sensing Systems for renewal of ISSYS membership in the
WIMS Center Industrial Partnership Program. Because Professors Kensall D. Wise and
Khalil Najafi are both University of Michigan employees and founders, board members,
and stock holders in ISSYS, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan's Center for Wireless
Integrated Microsystems and Integrated Sensing Systems.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University
policy.  The membership fee to be paid by ISSYS is $10,000 and covers a
membership period of one year from September 1, 2001 to August 31, 2002. The
Agreement involves no specific deliverables unique to ISSYS.
3.   Professor Wise' s and Professor Najafi' s pecuniary interest arises from their status as
founders, board members, and stock holders in ISSYS.
Research Agreements for University of Michigan Research Sponsored by Attenuon,
L.L.C.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved research agreements between the University of Michigan and Attenuon, L.L.C.
Because Sofia Merajver, George Brewer, Dimitri Coucouvanis, and Robert Dick are all
University of Michigan employees who have equity interests in Attenuon, L.L.C., these
agreements fall under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreements are the University of Michigan and Attenuon, L.L.C.


182




January Meeting, 2002


2.   The terms of the proposed agreements conform to University policy. Dr. George
Brewer will direct the project in the Department of Human Genetics with assistance
from Dr. Merajver in the Department of Internal Medicine and Dr. Coucouvanis in the
Department of Chemistry. The project is expected to continue over a four-year
period. The estimated first-year cost is $200,000, including indirect cost at the
applicable industry rate. All appropriate animal use approvals have been obtained for
these studies. No human studies are proposed at this time.
3.   Dr. Brewer's, Dr. Merajver's, and Dr. Coucouvanis' pecuniary interest arises from
their status as having an equity interest in Attenuon, L.L.C.
Subcontract Agreement from the University of Michigan to EMAG Technologies,
Inc.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement from the University of Michigan to EMAG
Technologies, Inc. to enable a faculty member, John Whitaker, to assist in the performance
of funded research. Because the co-founders and co-owners of EMAG Technologies, Inc.,
Kamal Sarabandi and Linda Katehi, are also University of Michigan employees, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and EMAG Technologies,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy.  The period of
performance for the project is six (6) months and the amount of funding support is
$40,000.
3.   Kamal Sarabandi's and Linda Katehi's pecuniary interest arises from  their
co-ownership of EMAG Technologies, Inc.
Henry Russel Lecturer for 2002
Interim President White informed the Regents of the selection of Gerard A. Mourou,
A.D. Moore Distinguished University Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science and professor of electrical engineering and computer science, as the Henry Russel
Lecturer for 2002.
Announcements
Interim President White called attention to a number of upcoming events, and of
notable faculty, staff, and institutional accomplishments and recognition.  He also
commented on the recent deaths in automobile accidents of two students, Rebecca Hilger
and Matthew Ryan Schwarz-Smith, and on the deaths of Professor Emerita Marie Dorothy
Hartwig and Elizabeth O. Yhouse, an alumna and strong supporter of the University.
Informal Session Motion
Regent Taylor moved that the Regents adjourn this formal session of the Board of
Regents and begin a nonformal session for the purpose of consulting with the Board's
attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Brandon seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
A five-minute break followed, after which the Regents met in informal session from
3:15-4:00 p.m.


183




January Meeting, 2002


Public Comments
The Regents reconvened in formal session at 4:00 and heard comments from the
following individuals on the topics indicated: Stephen L. Raissi, student, Rev. Charles
Booker-Hirsch, pastor of Northside Presbyterian Church, Rev. Matthew Lawrence,
chaplain of Canterbury House Episcopal Center, and Glenn M. Klipp, alumnus, on the
inclusion of the Boy Scouts of America in the United Way and the University's participation
in this campaign; and Peri Stone-Palmquist, student, on her residency status.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:25 p.m. The next
meeting will take place February 14-15, 2002.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


184




JANUARY MEETING, 2002
APPENDIX A
Charge to the Presidential Search Advisory Committee
The Presidential Search Committee charges the Presidential Search Advisory Committee with
the following responsibilities:
The Presidential Search Advisory Committee shall provide information and
advice to the Presidential Search Committee and develop and recommend for
consideration a pool of candidates to be considered for the presidency.
The Presidential Search Advisory Committee (PSAC) serves in a preliminary and advisory
capacity for the Presidential Search Committee (PSC). As an advisory body, the Presidential
Search Advisory Committee with the assistance of Ms. Shelly Weiss Storbeck, of A. T.
Kearney, shall recruit candidates for the position.
Recruiting includes placing advertisements in relevant publications, inviting nominations from
members of the University community and others, accepting applications, and examining these
applications and nominations. Since experience indicates that most individuals who will be
serious candidates for the position will not apply directly, much of this process will consist of
the search consultant (Ms. Storbeck) and the committee conducting a wide prospect search,
contacting prospects, discussing the opportunity with them, and attempting to interest them in
the position.
In carrying out its responsibilities, the Presidential Search Advisory Committee shall be guided
by the presidential selection criteria approved by the Presidential Search Committee on
January 17, 2002.
The PSAC shall conduct a vigorous search for outstanding candidates. The PSAC shall review
applications and nominations, meet with prospects if necessary, and develop a pool of
recommended prospective candidates.
The PSAC shall conduct the recruiting and initial reviewing in such a manner to ensure that
confidentiality is strictly observed in accordance with Michigan law. The PSAC shall comply
with the University policies on equal opportunity and affirmative action.
The chair of the PSAC will keep the PSC informed of the progress of the search through a
series of periodic reports. The PSAC and PSC may meet periodically as needed.
The PSAC shall present the PSC with candidates to be considered for the presidency with
supporting documentation and comments provided for all candidates. Any member of the PSC
at any time may add names of individuals to the pool of candidates.
The University of Michigan
PRESIDENTIAL SELECTION CRITERIA
As approved 1/17/02
POSITION:             President of the University
INSTITUTION:          University of Michigan
LOCATION:             Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint, Michigan


185




January M/eeting, 20)02 - Appendix A


THE UNIVERSITY
Founded in 1817, the University of Michigan has been the national model for the large public
university for more than a century. The University's mission is to serve the people of
Michigan, the United States, and the world through preeminent teaching, research, and public
service, and by developing leaders and citizens who challenge the present and enrich the future.
Recognized as one of the world's premiere research universities, the University is a leader in
undergraduate and graduate education, offering challenging academic programs and diverse
cultural and social opportunities in a stimulating intellectual environment.
Some facts about the University:
~  With a diverse campus population of more than 53,000 students and 5,200 faculty, it has
nineteen schools, colleges, and divisions in Ann Arbor, four in Dearborn, and four in Flint.
In addition to students and faculty, the University has 22,000 non-instructional staff.
*   With 424,000 living degree holders, the U-M has the largest alumni body of any college or
university. The largest concentrations of alumni are in Michigan, California, Illinois. New
York, Ohio, and Florida.
*   Eight regents elected at large in biennial state elections and the president, who serves as an
ex officio member of the Board, govern the University. The regents serve without
compensation for overlapping terms of eight years.  According to the Michigan
Constitution, the regents have "general supervision" of the institution, including election
of the president, and "the control and direction of all expenditures from the institution's
funds." The regents meet once a month in a public session.
*   The following senior officers report to the president: provost and executive vice president
for academic affairs, executive vice president and chief financial officer, executive vice
president for medical affairs, vice president for communications, vice president for
development, vice president and general counsel, vice president for government relations,
vice president for research, vice president and secretary of the University, vice president
for student affairs, and chancellors of the Flint and Dearborn regional campuses.
e   The total 2001-2002 operating budget for all three campuses is $3.8 billion. This includes
the General Fund (teaching, research, library services, student aid, and the operation of the
physical plant), the U-M Health System, and all other specialized funds. The state of
Michigan provides approximately 11 percent of the University's total operating budget and
36 percent of the General Fund.
*   Research expenditures  more than $545 million in fiscal year 2000  are the highest
among public universities in the United States.  Annually, an estimated 2,000 U-M
undergraduates enhance their studies through research partnerships with faculty mentors.
The U-M is committed to conducting research for public benefit. In fiscal year 2001,
U-M faculty and staff disclosed 182 new inventions, filed 128 patent applications and had
65 patents issued. The University licensed 64 technologies to companies, including 12
new start-ups.
e   The University operates the U-M Health System, one of the largest health care complexes
in the world devoted to the training of health professionals, to medical research, and to
health care delivery. The Health System, comprised of the U-M Medical School, three
hospitals, community health centers, 120 outpatient clinics, M-CARE HMO, and the
Michigan Health Corp., consistently ranks among the best health care institutions in the
nation.
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The president, as the chief executive of the University, is expected to enhance the University's
existing strengths, help develop new ones, and chart its future course in consultation with
various University stakeholders and with the approval of the Board of Regents.


186




January M/eeting, 200(2 - Appendix A


Strengths to be built upon include:
*   Comprehensive Diversity. The University is committed to policies and practices aimed at
a comprehensive campus diversity, of which racial and ethnic diversity is an important part.
With such diversity, the University is able to achieve its mission of educating students to
participate fully in our heterogeneous democracy and our global economy.
e   Undergraduate Education. Eighty-two percent of undergraduate students on the Ann Arbor
campus graduate within six years -the highest graduation rate in the state of Michigan.
The U-M has been recognized by the Association of American Colleges and Universities
for visionary campuswide innovations in undergraduate education and is reviewing
recommendations resulting from the deliberations of the Commission on the
Undergraduate Experience, which released its report in fall 2001.
*   The Life Sciences Initiative.  Launched in 1999, the Life Sciences Initiative is a
campuswide effort to coordinate and expand research and teaching in such rapidly
advancing fields as genomics, chemical and structural biology, cognitive neuroscience, and
bioinformatics. A new six-story Life Sciences Institute, the cornerstone of the Initiative,
will serve as a hub for cross-disciplinary research and teaching in the life sciences. The
230,000-square-foot facility is scheduled to open in spring 2003.
*   Information Technology. The President's Information Revolution Commission report
issued in April 2001 calls for dramatically upgrading infrastructure over the next five
years, implementing an "across-the-curriculum" approach to educate students for life in an
information technology-intensive world, developing a strongly interdisciplinary approach
to information technology research, and experimenting aggressively with online learning.
*   Arts and Humanities Initiatives. The University's partnership with the Royal Shakespeare
Company, as well as plans to build the Walgreen Drama Center and Arthur Miller Theatre
and renovate major performance venues reflect the University's ongoing commitment to
the arts and humanities.
e   Public Goods. The Ann Arbor campus alone has a dozen galleries and museums; several
nature areas, including the 123-acre Nichols Arboretum; and 24 libraries containing more
than 7.3 million volumes. The U-M is committed to sharing these cultural resources with
the public.
As the University's principal spokesperson, the president communicates directly with each of
its external constituencies, including government, education interest groups, the media, and the
general public.
The president:
*   Leads the University community in the development and articulation of values and mission,
and develops effective strategies for pursuing that mission;
e   Accepts ultimate responsibility for the quality of the educational and research programs;
*   Serves as a spokesperson for higher education, nationally and internationally;
*   Enhances public funding and private fundraising;
*   Represents the University to state governing authorities and other audiences.  The
University's significant stakeholders, in addition to students, faculty, and staff, include the
people of Michigan and the state government, as well as the federal government, which
provides major research funding, and the private/business sector;
*   Oversees the operations of the U-M Health System and planning for its future in a rapidly
changing health care environment;
*   Oversees the University's athletic program;


187




January Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A


*   Supports the University's historical commitment to be a national and world academic
leader linking academic excellence and diversity.
*   Works with the provost and other appropriate University officers and faculty committees
to prepare and implement multi-year academic and financial plans and insure that the
institution is managed efficiently;
*   Keeps the Board of Regents, the University's policy-making body, closely apprised of
developments within the University, and carries out the Board's policies within the context
of the University's tradition of collegial governance.
PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
The president must have a distinguished record of accomplishment in higher education and/or
other fields of professional endeavor, and must have demonstrated significant leadership skills.
The president also must have significant academic and administrative experience, preferably at
a senior management level in a research university or comparable institution in business or
government, and an appreciation of the values and objectives of a large, public research
university dedicated to quality teaching and scholarship. A proven ability to work successfully
with the internal and external constituencies of a large, complex organization such as the
University is essential. A doctorate or terminal professional degree is preferable; candidates
must have strong academic credentials to validate their understanding of academic values.
A successful candidate for the presidency must be committed to undergraduate, graduate, and
professional education, and to shared academic governance and be able to:
~   Identify, recruit, and motivate executive leaders of the University;
*   Work effectively with diverse populations, including faculty, staff, students, alumni, and
regents, and share a strong commitment to diversity and affirmative action.
*   Lead major fundraising activities.
PERSONAL QUALIFICATIONS
A successful candidate for the Presidency also should possess the highest degree of personal
integrity and be able to:
*   Communicate within and outside the University community, listen and respond in a
thoughtful and considerate manner, and relate effectively to many different people;
*   Formulate and communicate a clear academic and organizational vision for the University
and its many programs;
*   Take measured risks to ensure the achievement of academic excellence and make difficult
and timely decisions;
e   Listen to and motivate others, trust in the ability of others, and delegate authority;
*   Articulate issues of diversity and equity.
COMPENSATION
Open and competitive
STARTING DATE
No later than the beginning of the 2002-2003 academic year
DEADLINE DATE
The Board of Regents' Presidential Search Advisory Committee is soliciting nominations and
expressions of interest. The committee plans to complete its work within the next few months.
The University of Michigan, as an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer, complies
with all applicable federal and state laws regarding nondiscrimination and affirmative action,


188




January M/eeting, 200(2 - Appendix A


including Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973. The University of Michigan is committed to a policy of nondiscrimination and
equal opportunity for all persons regardless of race, sex, color, religion, creed, national
original or ancestry, age, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, or Vietnam-era veteran
status in employment, educational programs and activities, and admissions. Inquiries or
complaints may be addressed to the University's Director of Affirmative Action and Title
IX/Section 504 Coordinator, 4005 Wolverine Tower, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-1281; (734)
763-0235; TTY (734) 647-1388. For other University of Michigan information, call (734)
764-1817.
CONTACT
Earl Lewis, Ph.D.
Chair, Presidential Search Advisory Committee
Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Vice Provost for Academic Affairs-Graduate Studies
University of Michigan
2012 Fleming Administration Building
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109-1340
Phone: (734) 647-0288
Fax: (734) 615-5700
Email: search@umich.edu
or
Shelly Weiss Storbeck
Vice President and Managing Director
Education Practice
A.T.Kearney, Inc.
333 John Carlyle Street
Alexandria, Virginia 22314
Phone: (703) 739-4613
Fax: (703) 518-1782
Email: shelly.storbeck@atkearney.com


189




January Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A


190




JANUARY MEETING, 2002
APPENDIX B
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIYERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION ASSURANCE AGREEMENT,
A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT,
IF NECESSARY FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN - ANN ARBOR
CENTRAL CAMPUS RENOVATION PHASE II MASON HALL AND HANSEN HALL
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a form of
construction and completion assurance agreement (the "Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement"'), by and among the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), the State of Michigan (the
"State") and the Regents of the University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the
"Educational Institution"), providing for the rights, duties and obligations of the Authority, the State and
the Educational Institution with respect to the Educational Institution's Ann Arbor Central Campus
Renovation Phase II Mason Hall and Haven Hall and the site therefor (the "Facility") during the
construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility and prior to the conveyance of the Facility to
the Authority, (b) the conveyalnce of the Facility to the Authority, (c) a lease (the "Lease"), by and
among the Authority, the Educational Institution and the State, for the purpose of leasing the Facility to
the State and the Educational Institution and (d) an easement and/or other agreement (the "Easement
Agreement") between the Authority and the Educational Institution, if necessary and/or desirable in
connection with access parking, utilities, pedestrians, encroachments, and/or other matters pertaining
to the interactions between the Facility and real property owned by the Educational Institution, and
(ii) providing for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and pursuant to the provisions of Act
No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of acquiring,
constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating, mortgaging and maintaining
buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities, and sites therefor, for the use of the State,
including institutions of higher education created pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the
Michigan Constitution of 1963 (the "State Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been maintained and created pursuant to Sections 4
and 5 of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority finance the
acquisition, construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in consideration of (i) the
Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter upon the site of the Facility (the
"Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation and/or equipping, (ii) the Educational
Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the oversight of such construction, renovation and/or
equipping and (iii) the Educational Institution conveying the Facility to the Authority on or prior to the
date of its completion, and the Authority is willing to provide such financing in consideration of the
items described above; and
WHlEREAS. in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement, the
State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority acquire the Facility on or prior to the date
of its completion, and lease the same to the State and the Educational Institution, and the Authority is
willing to acquire the Facility and lease the samie to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHlEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the Educational Institution, the Facility will be
constructed by the Educational Institution on behalf of the Authority, and it is intended that the Site and
the Facility be conveyed to the Authority by the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
Educational Institution and the State is necessary in order for the State and the Educational Institution to
carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to the people of the State


191




January Meeting, 2002 - Appendix B


as mandated or permnitted by constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition
represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 1 83 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the Authority,
by the State Adninistrative Board of the State and by concurrennt resolution of the Legislature of the
State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in each house and if the Lease is
for an institution of higher education existing or created pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of
the State Constitution, then in addition, the Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher
education and signed by its authorized officer and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Educational
Institution authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from a public
road to the Facility over real property oxwned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has
access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future use certain easements
through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will requir  n are a ment to share
a common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property owned by the
Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in connection with the
reasonable use of the Facility, and/or (v) the Authority and/or the Educational Institution will require
other easements and/or agreements pertaining to the Facility and/or real property owned by the
Educational Institution (such as, but without limitation, easements andlor agreements pertaining to
pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/r encroachments), then in the   order to meet any such requirement, it
may be necessary for an authorized officer of the Educational Institution to approve an Easement
Agreement or Easemnent Agreements to provide for such easements and/or agreements;
NOW, TEEFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE             EGENTSOF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN THAT:
1. The plans for the Facility, as filed with the Educational Institution, are hereby approved.
2.  The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is hereby authorized and
directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for and on behalf of the Educational
Institution. Such officer is hereby authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the
Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement as do not materially adversely affect the
Educational Institution.
3. The conveyance of the Site and the Facility to the Authority in accordance with the
Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement is hereby approved, and the then seated President
and the ExecuLtive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver a warranty deed in substantially the formn attached as
Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be from time to time
approved by such officers.
4. The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in substantially the
form attached as Exhibit C, and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Educational Institution is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in accordance
with the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement and in substantially the form attached as
Exhibit C for and on behalf of the Educational Institution and such officer is hereby designated as an
authorized officer of the Educational Institution for purposes of Section 7 of Act 1 83. Such officer is
hereby authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially alter
the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action submitted to the
Regents in connection therewith; provided such officer is not hereby authorized to approve a change in
the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the description of the Facility or the material financial
obligations of the Educational Institution contained in the Lease approved herein. The Educational
Institution hereby determines that the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and
the authorized officer is hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual


192




January Meeting, 2002 - Appendix B


amounts determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $2,770,000 in any
12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
5. If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and if the Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution determines that (i) the Authority will require an
easement frlo  a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the Educational Institution so
that theAuthority has access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future use
certain easement through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will require an
agreement to share a common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real
property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in
connection with. the reasonable use of the Fac:ility, and/or (v) the Authority and/or the Educational
Institution will require other easements and/or agreements pertaining to the Facility and/or real property
owned by the Educational Institution (such as, but without limitation, easements and/or agreements
pertaining to pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or encroachments), then such officer is hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements if
necessary in order to meet any such requirement.
6. The Executiv e     Vic President and Chief Finanial. Officer of the Educational Institution is
hereby authorized and. directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions, including, without
limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority and the State and signing
certificates, documents or other instruments, on behalf of the Educational Institution, as he deems
necessary or desirable Lunder the circumstances to accomplish the purposes of the transactions
authorized in this Resolution.
7. The Educational Institution further confirms its obligations to perform the duties and.
obligations specified in the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement (only upon its
execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and the Lease (only upon its
execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution.) and acknowledges that such
obligations do not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the Educational Institution without
consideration upon termination of the Lease. The Educational Institution hereby recognizes that it
would execute and deliver the Lease even if title to the Facility would not pass upon termination of the
Lease.
8. The Educational, Institution, recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the Facility
in an amount not in excess of $26,250,000.
9. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this
Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
10. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption..


193




J~anuuary Meeting, 2002 - Appendix B


194




FEBRUARY MEETING, 2002


The Universir, of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, Februaty 14, 2002
The Regents convened at 1:35 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were Interim
President White and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Homing, Maynard, McGowan, Newman,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Interim Provost Courant, Vice President Feagin,
Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General
Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn,
Vice President Rudgers, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and
Vice President Wilbanks.
President's Opening Remarks
Interim President White called the meeting to order, and commented on the
accomplishments and awards of a number of University faculty, staff, and alumni. He noted
that Regent White has been recommended for tenure in her position at Wayne State
University, that Vice President Wilbanks would be receiving two awards from community
groups, and that Vice President Tedesco had received the Sarah Goddard Power Award
from the University's Academic Women's Caucus.
Interim President White also called attention to the recent deaths of two University
staff members and Regent White commented on the recent death of Professor Emeritus
Murray Jackson.
Regents' Resolution in Honor of Vice President Feagin
Regent Newman called Vice President Feagin to the podium and read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate and
exp     thr       ciaion o       ress their appreciation to Vie President  r Development Susan
Kay Feagin as she leaves the University on Februar7 28, 2002, to return
to Columbia University, her alma mater, to become vice president for
development and alumni relations.
One   of  the  nation's foremost   academic  development
professionals, Vice President Feagin enjoys the respect of donors and
of her colleagues at Michigan and throughout the country.  7he
University has benefited enormously from the almost twentv-five years
of experience Vice President Feagin brought to Michigan when she
joined the University in May 1998.
The Regents are gratefl for Vice President Feagin's strong
leadership and her commitment to enhancing Michigan's nationally
recognized development program. Under her direction, the University
enjoyed its most successfu.l levels of fundraising, raising a record


195




February leeting 202


$230.6 million in 2000 c; d $218 miillion in 2001. She also recruited a
talented team of fundraising professionals to work with the schools and
colleges om the Universityls next capital campai g;.
With admiration and appreciation the Regents congratulate and
extend best wishes to Vice President Susan Kay Feagin as she leaves to
become vice president for development and alumni relations at
Columbia University.
A round of applause followed.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the January
17, 2002 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Investment, Plant
Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action. With respect to the latter, he
noted that the report should have included the fact that the University has been in
negotiations with the Graduate Employees Union (GEO) since October 2001 and that the
contract is now under continuation.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Reksearch Report. Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for January 1-31, 2002.
Report on state budget situation Interim President White called on Vice
President Wilbanks to comment on the state budget situation. Vice President Wilbanks
observed that the University had been fortunate to escape any budget cuts in the fall of
2001, but is now preparing for possible recommendations concerning the 2003 budget.
She noted that the governor had indicated that he would be receptive to recommending a
continuation budget for 2003 and that the universities, in recognition of that budget, have
voluntarily agreed to limit tuition increases for 2002-03 to 8.5% or $425, whichever is
higher. It is anticipated that the whole process could possibly be completed and a higher
education budget in place by the end of March.
Interim Provost Courant observed that the University is grateful to the governor and
legislature for continuing to spare higher education from cuts during this difficult period
and to Vice President Wilbanks for her efforts on the University's behalf. He noted that
the overall inflation rate in the state is predicted to be about 2.9%, that medical care costs
are rising substantially, and these facts, combined with a 0% increase from the state,
create significant challenges for the University. At the same time, he pointed out that the
University has an obligation to students, their parents, and taxpayers to keep tuition as
low as possible and the University expects to restrain tuition increases to below the 8.5%
mentioned by Vice President Wilbanks. He pointed out, however, that the likelihood
remains that the state may be forced by fiscal exigency to make cuts or recisions in its
appropriation to the University. These realities will require the University to engage in
even more cost reduction and reallocation than it would in a normal year. For this
reason, he has asked the deans, executive officers, and major directors to indicate how
they would absorb a 2.5% cut in General Fund expenditures.


196




Felbruary Mleeting, 2002


Interim Provost Courant commented that it is incumbent upon the University to meet
the expectations of students and taxpayers, and he is confident that the current budgeting
strategy will enable it to do so. He also observed that based on past history, the
University should not expect to regain its most recent level of state funding of 37% of the
General Fund after the state emerges from its current period of fiscal constraints. This
would increase the importance of other sources of revenue, such as tuition and
philanthropy.
University of Michigan  ealth System. Executive Vice President Omenn reported
on items of interest with respect to the health system. He noted that negotiations continue
with the House Officers Association, and that the health system is reviewing ambulatory
care operations in order to improve efficiencies and enhance patients' experiences.
Finally, he noted that increasing health insurance costs for the health system of about $5
million for the coming year would add additional budgetary pressures.
Regent Newman requested that the board receive a presentation on health system
financial matters, and it was agreed this would be scheduled for an upcoming Regents'
Meeting.
Vice President Wilbanks noted that the Medicaid budget would also be flat for the
coming year, and the future for that budget account is even more acute since some of its
funding will be derived from "one-time" sources of revenue.
Division of Student Affirs. Vice President Harper called attention to a briefing
document on residence hall safety and security that had been distributed at the meeting.
She noted that student safety was the highest priority in the day-to-day management of the
residence hall communities. Achieving the high degree of safety and security is done in a
variety of ways, including the presence of a professionally-trained, full-time housing
security staff that is under the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Safety,
complimented by full-time housing staff. A wide range of communications is provided
about residence hall safety, including publications, informal meetings, and security alerts.
She said that the Office of the Vice President for Student affairs will continue to explore
additional approaches for providing security in the residence halls. She also called
attention to the listing of specific measures taken in response to a recent incident that had
occurred in East Quad.
Regent Newman requested that the Regents be updated on residence hall security
issues, including the analysis that is done to reach the conclusion that the residence halls
are secure. She requested that the opinions of any outside consultants that have been
hired also be shared with the Regents. Interim President White responded that a report on
residence hall security would be presented at the next month's meeting, including an
analysis of the next set of steps that might be taken to improve the situation.
University of llihigan -Dearbon. Chancellor Little reported on a gospel music
event, produced by a University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty member, that had recently
been produced at the Detroit Opera House. He also called attention to awards that had
been received by pre-service teachers in the Dearborn campus' School of Education.
Interim President White noted that Chancellor Little had convened a very successful
evening event in Dearborn with leaders of the Arab-American community and of the
University of Michigan.


197




February Meeting, 2002


University of Michigan-Flint. There was no report from the Flint campus.
MSA Report. MSA president Matt Nolan commented that students would view the
Regents' establishment of a committee structure as a positive move, as it would create
more channels for communication with the Regents.
Mr. Nolan also raised concerns about a report that student football ticket sales
would be capped at 20,000 for the coming season. He noted that for the three years
previous to the past season more than 22,000 student tickets had been sold and a shortage
of student tickets would be seen as a big problem by the student body.
Mr. Nolan also noted that MSA had recently hosted the Big Ten Students
Conference and that he and MSA Vice President Jessica Cash are in charge of organizing
next year's conference.
Regent White asked for further information about the situation regarding student
football tickets for fall 2002. She stated she would be opposed to a cap like the one
described by Mr. Nolan.
Voluntary Slpport. Vice President Feagin submitted Reports of Voluntary Support
for January 31, 2002.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering and
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. $ 29,350
James N. and Sara Adler Charitable Fund, Los Angeles, California
for the James N. Alder Endowed Scholarship in the Law School....................... 20,000
Alcoa, Inc., Bettendorf, Iowa
for the Women' s Initiative in Leadership Program in
the School of Business Administration and
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.................. 10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 103,888
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, the Schools of Nursing and Public Health, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................  207,801
Thomas K. Andison, Marysville
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Anonymous Donor
870 shares of Oracle Corporation and
470 shares of Sunrise Assisted Living, Inc., common stock
for the Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund......................................... 26,194
Anonymous Donor
24,000 shares of Pharmacia Corporation common stock
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 989,460
Anonymous Donor
12,000 shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 731,862
Anonymous Donor
for support in  the School of Nursing............................................. 105,000
AOL Time Warner, New York, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program Minority Journalist Fellowship in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................................ 150,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  17,083
Association of Performing Arts Presenters, Washington, DC
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  20,000
Avfuel Corporation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 12,800
Marvin A. Bacon Trust
for undergraduate  student aid....................................................  10,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship................................. 58,750


198




February Meeting, 2002


David and Carol Bindeman Charitable Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund
for support in  the M edical School................................................  10,000
Maurice S. Binkow, Bloomfield Hills
225 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock and a cash gift
for support at the University  of Michigan.......................................... 13,463
Josef S. Blass, Pemberville, Ohio
for the Center for Russian and Eastern European Studies in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 12,000
Seth Bonder Trust
for the Seth Bonder Endowed Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for the Kellogg  Eye Center Building Fund........................................ 110,000
James F. Bourquin rust
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for other support at the University of Michigan....                      59,500
J. Leonard and Irma Brandt Family Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
John D. Bunbury, Rockford
1,191 shares of Costco Wholesale Corporation common stock
for the Timothy Krause Bunbury Memorial Scholarship in the Department of Athletics... 53,256
Linda Burke, Quincy
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  12,500
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 35,000
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics,
for the University of Michigan Children's Center, and
for W U OM.............................................................   110,000
Cap, Gemini, Ernst & Young U. S., L.L.C., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................  15,000
Chang Family Trust
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................  10,000
Cleveland A. Christophe, Stamford, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the M artin Luther King  Scholarship...........................................  26,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
an outside held trust
for the C.S. Mott Minority Scholarship Endowment at
the University  of M ichigan-Flint..............................................  1,000,000
Lewis H. Cooper, Ann Arbor
for the Hugh and Nan Cooper Scholarship in the School of Music..................... 25,000
Corritore Company, Paradise Valley, Arizona
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 10,000
DCES Educational Services, Canton
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.................... 16,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and the School of Public Health.................... 24,863
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Summer Engineering Academy Program Fund in the College of Engineering..... 162,000
Anthony V. DeVito, Sr., Bradenton, Florida
for the Anthony V. DeVito II Memorial Award Fund in the Medical School.............. 10,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  13,690
John R. Edman Trustee
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship and the Class of
1950 Endowed Scholarship in the School of Business Administration and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  21,455
Kenneth A. Eisenberg, Bloomfield Hills
for the Kenneth A. Eisenberg Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics....... 20,000
Executive Recruiters, Southfield
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 10,000
ExxonMobil Foundation, Irving, Texas
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  24,835
Z. Jane and Cyrus Farrehi Trust
for the Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in the Medical School.................. 300,000
Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation, Detroit
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 168,043


199




F ebrluary Mfeeting, 200D2


Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 50,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support at the University of Michigan......................................... 600,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for biological sciences research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for the Center for the Study of Complex Systems, and
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 104,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for employee matching gifts................................................... 132,350
Foundation for Modern Greek Studies, Dearborn
for the C. P. Cavafy Professorship in Modern Greek Studies in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................  10,903
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School............................................... 39,953
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
692 shares of American International Group, Inc., common stock
for the Edward P. Frohlich Graduate Fellowship in Piano and other support in
the School of Music and
for support of the Law School................................................... 55,436
Michael R. Gelband, Short Hills, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Yaffe Collaborative Advertising Workshop Fund in the School of Art and Design and
for the Yaffe Collaborative Center Fund in the School of Business Administration...... 10,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering.... 436,000
Genvec, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 40,000
Gerber Foundation, Fremont
for research in the Medical School............................................... 89,059
Leona M. Geyer Trust
for WFUM-TV in memory of Leona M. Geyer..................................... 27,610
Carol Giacoletto, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Martha Cook Building Fund............................................... 10,000
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr. Trust
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School................................ 10,000
Goerlich Family Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for research in the Medical School............................................... 14,000
Ellen Weis Goldstein, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 15,000
Goodrich Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the University Library....................................................... 15,000
James J. Grosfeld, Southfield
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................... 20,000
Mark W. B. Harms, New York, New York
for the Mark Harms Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 10,000
Hasbro Children' s Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Social Work.18,024
Gary D. Haynie, Fargo, North Dakota
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School.10,000
Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Fund of the Jewish Community Foundation, Overland Park, Kansas
for the Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Scholarship
the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Protessorship, and
the UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in the School of Business Administration........ 1 18,749
Russell Heyl Estate
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts.......... 20,000
Jay C. Hoag, Palo Alto, California
for support in the School of Business Administration............................. 50,000
Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Hooker, Cook and DeVos Endowment Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy................................................................. 15,000
Dexter Horton Trust
for support of the University of Michigan......................................... 38,260
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support of the Law School................................................... 10,000


200




Frederick G. L. Huetwell Estate
for support of the University of M ichigan.........................................  62,154
Frances B. Imoberstag Charitable Foundation, Dearborn Heights
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 20,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and
for employee matchin gifts.................................................... 11,434
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 20,000
Jenkins & Gilchrist, Dallas, Texas
for the Jenny Runkles Memorial Fund in the Law School............................ 10,000
Johnson and Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 31,500
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration,
for the Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund, and
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................  49,905
Hugh C. Johnson Estate
for the Hugh C. Johnson Library Endowment in the Law School....................... 16,640
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School and the Schools of Public Health and Social Work... 247,522
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
for support of the University  of Michigan.........................................  10,850
Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................... 21,476
Kaydon, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 50,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Public Health and
for employee  matching  gifts...................................................  584,650
Key Bank, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.............................................. 10,000
Robert P. and Jean W. Kirby Charitable Gift Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund
for the Dean Gorham Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment... 10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the  University  Hospitals.....................................................  14,852
Robert M. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Robert M. and Wallis C. Klein Darrow Merit Scholarship in the Law School,
for support in the Department of Athletics, and
for the Victor W. and Ruth A. Klein Scholarship................................... 24,160
Gloria Kramer, Saint Clair Shores
for research in the Medical School...............................................  10,000
Krupman Family Foundation, Inc., Scarsdale, New York
for the Jackson Lewis Fund in the Law School...................................... 20,000
Katherine Kutsche, Trenton
for the Kutsche Memorial Chair in Internal Medicine in the Medical School............ 30,000
Jack Lapides Estate
for the Jack Lapides Professor of Pediatric Urology Endowment in the Medical School. 968,086
Joseph T. A. Lee, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women, in memory of Elsie Choy Lee 25,927
Kevin K. Lee, Cupertino, California
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.....................................  10,000
Edward T. Leonard Estate
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 50,000
Leukemia an Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 55,750
Jay J. Levin, West Bloomfield
1,200 shares of Sun Microsystems common stock
for the Jay J. Levin Fund in the School of Business Administration....................... 14,988
Jerry W. Levin, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Endowment in the College of Engineering......... 200,000
Jeffrey Liss, Washington, DC
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,884
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender..................... 180,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000


201




F ebrluary Mfeeting, 200D2


Jeffrey N. Lutz, Grosse Pointe Farms
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Business Administration, and
for the Marching Band Fund in the School of Music................................ 12,000
Kenneth S. Mack, Metamora
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........ 15,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 36,409
Marion Foundation, Denver, Colorado
for undergraduate research support in the Museum of Anthropology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................. 10,000
Richard B. Marsh Trust
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000
Alta B. Larsen Mastin Trust
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
in memory of Glenn Mastin..................................................... 20,000
J. P. McCarthy Foundation, Sterling Heights
for support in the Medical School................................................ 50,000
Charlotte McGeoch Trust
for the University Musical Society............................................... 10,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research................................... 465,000
Merrill Lynch Trust Company, Somerset, New Jersey
for the Clyde and Harriet McKenzie Scholarship in the School of
Business Administration and
for the Anthony D. Wang Scholarship in the College of Engineering................... 13,607
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Portage
for support in the Department of Athletics, the College of Engineering,
the Medical School, and the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship and other support in
the School of Business Administration, and
for the Museum of Art........................................................ 180,000
Monroe Street Journal, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Anne M. Moss Fund of the Fidelit Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the College o Pharmacy, in memory of Anne M. Moss and
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering, in memory
of Lowell R. Moss............................................................. 38,891
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for sup ort at the University of Michigan-Flint,
for WN UM, and
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 92,200
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School..                                        10,500
National Multiple Sclerosis Societ, New York, New York
for research in the Medical chool and the Biophysics Research Division............. 411,361
Homer A. Neal, Ann Arbor
for the Homer A. and Donna J. Neal Endowment.................................... 10,000
Herbert E. Neil, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
for the Joan Nelson and Herbert E. Neil, Jr. Scholarship in the School of Education...... 70,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
760 shares of Concord EFS, Inc., common stock
for the UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in the School of Business Administration...... 24,917
Virginia S. Nicklas, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Virginia S. Nicklas Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.
for the University Library. and
for the Michigan League........................................................ 12,350
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in the School of Dentistry............................................ 12,700
Thomas W. 0 strander, New York, New York
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 25,000
Vern C. Owen Trust
for research in the Medical School............................................... 95,000
Deryck A. Palmer, New York, New York
for support of the Law School................................................... 1-5,000
Parents Against Childhood Epilepsy, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 62,636


202




Fe ebruary M/eeting, 20)02


Randolph Paschke, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, and
for the Arthur Andersen Fund for the Paton Accounting Center and other support
in the School of Business Administration.........................................  15,250
Payne Family Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Women's Initiative in Leadership Program Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 20,000
Albert B. Perlin, Jr., Captiva, Florida
250 shares of Target Corporation common stock
for support of the Law School................................................... 10,268
Richard M. Perlman, Chicago, Illinois
for the Perlman Honors Commons in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 500,000
Terrence G. Perris, Cleveland, Ohio
for support of the  Law   School..................................................  10,000
Barbara L. Piper Trust
for support in the Medical School, in memory of William F. Piper..................... 10,000
George J. Platsis, Okemos
for the Arthur and Mary Platsis Fund for Greek Classical Studies in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................  50,000
Harold A. and Marian L. Poling Charitable Contribution Fund of
the Goldman Sachs Philanthropy Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund........................................ 200,000
Power Foundation, alamazoo
for the Sadye H. Power Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Nichols Arboretum...............                                 45,300
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  11,750
Rachor Family Foundation, Ltd., Flint
for scholarships in the School of Dentistry and at the University of Michigan-Flint....... 13,000
James and Bonnie Reece Charitable Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Reece Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Business Administration and the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies and
for the University Musical Society............................................... 27,500
Jeffrey A. Rich, Dallas, Texas
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Jessie Ridley Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Services for Students with Disabilities Fund................................. 10,000
Roy H. Roberts Trust
for the Dr. Roy and Natalie Roberts Fund in the School of Dentistry.................. 200,441
Marion Ryan, Flint
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint....... 25,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School.................................. 50,000
William J. Scheeff, North Olmsted, Ohio
for the Class of 1947 Engineering Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering... 25,000
Norman J. Schuen, Portage
7,753 shares of various corporate common stock
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry................... 100,752
Searle Family Trust
for the Center for Ecosystem Management in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment.............................................. 50,000
Seiger Family Foundation, Palo Alto, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law School...................... 10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Center for the Education of Women.............................. 44,781
Charles L. Smith, Perrysburg, Ohio
770 shares of Pfizer, Enc., common stock
for the Harold F. Falls Collegiate Professorship, the Kellogg Eye Center Building Fund, and
other support in the Medical School.............................................. 31,027
Speckhard-Kmght Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 30,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School
of G raduate  Studies............................................................  10,000
Laurence L. Spitters, Palo Alto, California
for support of the  Law   School...................................................  10,000


203




F ebrluary Mfeeting, 200D2


Irvin Stern Foundation
for the Under raduate Research Opportunities Program in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 25,000
Clinton F. Stimpson, III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering..... 23,500
Tapestry Foundation of Mary Carmel and Thomas P. Borders, Austin, Texas
for the Mary C. and Thomas P. Borders Women' s Basketball Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics..................................................... 10,000
Tauber Family Foundation, Southfield
for the Joel D. Tauber Endowment Funds in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering.................................................... 325,000
A. Alfred Taubman Trust
for the Alfred Taubman Scholarship.............................................. 50,859
Am H. Tellem, Los Angeles, California
for the Am Tellem Faculty Research Support Fund in the Law School.................. 30,000
Jack W. Thompson, Naples, Florida
5,122 shares of Bank One common stock for
the Library Acquisition Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint........... 197,735
Marianna F. and Robert H. Transou Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Robert and Marianna Transou Scholarship in the College of Engineering......... 50,000
Ralph G. Trimborn, Kettering, Ohio
for support in the Department of Athletics......................................... 15,000
UNOCAL Foundation, El Segundo, California
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 12,800
Elizabeth Upjohn-Mason, Kalamazoo
1,290 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Norman Thompson, M.D. Professorship of Surgery Fund in the Medical School.... 37,713
Valleycrest Productions, Lt., Burbank, California
for the Robert and Heather Urich Research and Patient Care Fund in the Medical School. 125,000
Timothy Wadhams Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration.... 30,000
David Wei Wang, Saratoga, California
for the C. G. Over erger Scholarship in the College of Engineering.................... 10,000
Washington Mutual Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 10,000
Roy E. and Carol W. Weber Trust
for the Roy E. Weber Research Fund in the Medical School.......................... 25,000
Emil A. Weddige Trust
for the Emil Weddige Scholarship and Fellowship in the School of Art and Design....... 15,000
Betty L. Welsh, Dearborn
336 shares of Kellogg Company common stock for
support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..                           10,184
David Westin, New York, New York
for support of the Law School................................................... 10,000
Patricia J. Whalen Trust
for the Meredith L. Whalen Memorial Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 55,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 50,000
Jeffrey S. Williams, Saline
10,000 shares of Genomic Solutions, Inc., common stock
for the Jeffrey S. and Dawn J. Williams Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.   23,250
Melba Winer Trust
for the Sidney J. Winer Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 25,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for research in the Medical School,
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, and
for support in the School of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 113,899
Everette E. Wynkoop Trust
for undergraduate student aid.................................................... 31,569
Dorothy A. Wyrembek Estate
for the University Hospitals..................................................... 15,526
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Adrian Precision Machining, Adrian
custom machine parts for the 2001 Solar Car


204




Fe ebruary M/eeting, 20)02


Carolyn M. Ash, Ann Arbor
equipment for the School of Dentistry
Beaver Packaging & Crating, Romulus
complete export packaging for the 2001 Solar Car
Florence L. Brownfain, Bloomfield Hills
books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Mardigan Library
DAKA Manufacturing, Inc., Elkhart, Indiana
kingpins for the 2001 Solar Car
Dean S. Fields, Bloomfield Hills
six framed 20th century Colgate advertisements for the School of Dentistry, Sindecuse Museum
Irwin T. Holtzman, Bloomfield Hills
80 books for the Special Collections Library
Charles McGee, Detroit
art work for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Peggy McPherson, Jackson
a piano for the School of Music
William B. Morgan, Rockville, Maryland
140 journals for the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
a spectrometer for the Department of Materials Science and Engineering
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Ann Arbor
two Sun Blade 1000 workstations and related accessories for the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science
Vantico, nc., East Lansing
modeling boards and related supplies for the College of Engineering
C. Edward Wall, Ypsilanti
art work for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Alfred Berkowitz Gallery
Margaret T. Ward, Detroit
printed materials for the Special Collections Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Barb Allyn, East Lansing                 Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
Kimberly C. Beard, Southfield            Jacob M. Price, Ann Arbor
William B. Becker, Huntington Woods      Sara L. Rappe, Princeton, New Jersey
Laura Delind, Mason                      Timothy F. Richards, Ann Arbor
Daniella Gobetti, Ann Arbor              Richard W. Ryan, Newark, Ohio
Joseph Gutmann, Huntington Woods         Ronald D. Saylor, Fenton
Edie Halstead, Lapeer                    Ruth Scodel, Ann Arbor
Stephen H. Hinshaw, Chelsea              D. R. Shackleton-Bailey, Ann Arbor
Stefan Karadian, West Bloomfield         Carroll Smith-Rosenberg, Ann Arbor
John Knodel, Ann Arbor                   Deborah Weisblatt, Huntington Woods
Jason M. Kramb, Bloomfield Hills        John D. Wheeler, East Tawas
Robert E. Lorey, Ann Arbor               Frank Whitehouse, Jr., Ann Arbor
Robert B. Mar uis, Jr., Inkster          Myron D. Winkleman, West Bloomfield
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor              Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
Joan Clair Morris, Ann Arbor             Joyce A. Woody, Lincoln Park
Personnel Actions. Interim Provost Courant submitted the following personnel
actions. He noted that the report includes recommendations for the appointment of seven
Arthur F. Thurnau professors, which recognize the best undergraduate teachers chosen
following a rigorous selection process.
Interim President White called attention to the appointment of Cynthia Wilbanks as
interim vice president for development. This appointment is in addition to her status as
vice president for government relations.


205




Fe ebruary M/eeting, 20)02


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Carson, Anne, Ph.D., Professor of Classical Studies, Professor of Comparative Literature, and Professor
of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2002
Mehrotra, Rahul J., M.A.U.D., Associate Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, January 1, 2003
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOU1T TENURE
Effective on September 1, 2002-May 31, 2005
Byosiere, Philippe H. R., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Management, School of Management,
University of Michigan-Flint
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATI~V, STAFF
Effective on July 1-December 31, 2002
Jayaratne, Srinika D., Associate Dean, School of Social Work
JOINT APPl3lOINTlMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTIRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Franzblau, Alfred, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Emergency Medicine, without tenure, also holds primary appointment as Associate
Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, Department of Environmental Health Sciences,
School of Public Health, February 15, 2002
Garabrant, David H., from Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine in Internal Medicine, without
tenure, to Associate Professor of Occupational Medicine in Emergency Medicine, without
tenure, also holds primary appointment as Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure,
Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health, February 15, 2002
Hazlett, Brian A., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, also appointed Interim Director, Biological
Station, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, March 1-December 31, 2002
McCauley, Laurie K., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of
Pathology, without tenure, February 15, 2002
Mindell, David P., Associate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, and
Associate Curator, Museum of Zoology, also appointed Interim Director, Museum of Zoology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Pang, StellaW., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Dean for Graduate Education, College of Engineering, February 1, 2002-January 31,
2007
Railton, Peter A., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy and Professor of Philosophy,
with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2006
Rose, Sonya O., Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor
of Women's Studies, without tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Thompson, B. Gregory Jr., Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, without tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure, Medical School,
February 15, 2002-February 14, 2003
Weisskopf, Thomas E., Professor of Economics, with tenure, also appointed Director, Residential
College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Wooley, Trevor, D., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Yeo, SeonAe, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, also appointed Associate
Professor of Family Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, February 15, 2002


206




February Meeting, 2002


A.:IPn(R)OVALO IF LEAVES OF ABSENCE FCR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMI C AI)       N STRATIVE STAJF
Effective on the date indicated
MacKintosh, Frederick C., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus extended, January 1-December 31, 2002
ESTABLISHIN( AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Estabiig E     owe   roeorsp
Walter H. Annenberg Professorship in Education Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
March 1, 2002
Robert W. Browne Professorship in Orthodontics, School of Dentistry, February 1, 2002
William K. and Mary Anne Najjar Professorship in Periodontics, School of Dentistry, February 1, 2002
Establishing Collegiate Professorships
Robert L. Dixon Collegiate Professorship in Accounting, School of Business Administration, March 1,
2002
Donald A. Kerr Endowed Collegiate Professorship in Oral Pathology, School of Dentistry, February 1,
2002
Renaming Existing Professorship
From the Richard D. Remington Collegiate Professorship in Public Health to the Richard D. Remington
Collegiate Professorship in Biostatistics, School of Public Health, March 1, 2002
OTHER TRtANSACTIIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Administrative Reorganization  Creation of New Title
From Associate Dean of Academic Affairs to Associate Dean of Educational Programs and Associate
Dean of Faculty and Academic Affairs, School of Social Work, September 1, 2002
Vew Appointments to Etablished Proessorship
LeCuyer, Annette W., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Little, Roderick J. A., Richard D. Remington Collegiate Professor of Biostatistics,
March 1, 2002-February 28, 2007
Parmentier, Edward L., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Powell, Kenneth Grant, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Rasmussen, Paul G., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Sharf, Robert H., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Soloway, Elliot, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Wakefield, Thomas W., S. Martin Lindenauer Collegiate Professor of Vascular Surgery, March 1, 2002
Other Transactions
Nowack, Judith A., Assistant Vice President for Research to Associate Vice President for Research,
February 14, 2002
Penner-Hahn, James E., Chair, Biophysics Research Division, Office of the Vice President for
Research, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005
Wilbanks, Cynthia H., Interim Vice President for Development, February 1, 2002
Persnnel Reports. Interim Provost Courant submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Axlerod, Robin S., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
January 2002-December 31, 2004


207




Fe ebruary M/eeting, 20)02


Bice, Karen L., M.B.A., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies, Air Force Officer Education
Program, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
Brown, Stephanie L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social
Research, January 1-April 30, 2002
Chapple, Anne S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Chinnaiyan, Arul M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology and Assistant Professor of Surgery,
Medical School, November 1, 2001-October 31, 2004
Coulter, Kevin P., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January
1-April 30, 2002
Dorf, Mary L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2002-May 31, 2004
Dorfman, Aviva B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Epureanu, Bogdan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2002-May 31, 2004
Esteban, Jose A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School,
January 14, 2002-January 13, 2004
Fournier, Michael S., B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2001-April 30,
2002
Grunow, Melanie, B.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Gu, Karen, M. A., Lecturer II in Chinese, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30,
2002
Hankenson, Fiona C., D.V.M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, Medical
School, January 1, 2002-December 31, 2005
Hsu, Frank K., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, January 14, 2002-January 13, 2003
Jain, Rajan, M.B., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, December 3, 2001-December 2, 2002
Lin, Jiayuh, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
January 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Lu, Jianxin, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30,
2002
Pierce, Marc E., M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2002
Read, Justin A., A.B., Lecturer II in Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Robinson, Amorie, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Robson, Kristi J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology, Medical School,
January 1, 2002-December 31, 2005
Schubnell, Michael S. G., Dr. Rernat, Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2002
Wimmler, Robbin A., M. A. Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies, Air Force Officer Education
Program, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Collin, Claudia R., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of
Education, January 1-April 30, 2002
Graham, Malcolm D., from Lecturer to Clinical Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
December 10, 2001-December 9, 2004
Hiers, Margaret E., Lecturer I in History of Art, also appointed Lecturer I in Classical Studies, in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2002
Jose-Kampfner, Christina, Lecturer II in Spanish and Lecturer II in Women' s Studies and Psychology,
also appointed Lecturer II in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Kim, Moon-Chul, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, January
1-December 31, 2002
Pardales, Michael J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2004


208




February Meeting, 2002


Rockwell, Stephen J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Political Science, UM-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, January 1, 2002-May 31, 2004
Wilson, Jessica M., from Instructor in Philosophy to William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of
Philosophy and Assistant Professor of Philosophy, in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts,
January 1, 2002-May 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Beaudoin, Allan R., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School,
January 1-April 30, 2002
BeMent, Spencer, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2001-April 30, 2002
Brown, Donald R., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Christensen, Kent A., Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Hancock, Walton M., Professor Emeritus of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering, and Professor Emeritus of Health Services Management and Policy, School of
Public Health, December 1, 2001-March 31, 2002
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2002
McKeachie, Wilbert, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2002
Shafter, Edward M. Jr., Professor Emeritus of Humanities, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Burbank, Jane R., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
outside teaching leave, January 1-December 31, 2002
Connelly, Matthew J., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, research leave,
January 1-May 31, 2002
Cooper, Frederick, Charles Gibson Collegiate Professor of History, Professor of History, Residential
College, with tenure, Chair, Department of History, and Professor of AfroAmerican and African
Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, outside teaching leave, January
1-December 31, 2002
Freese, Katherine, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Jeganathan, P., Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, personal leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Kauper, Thomas E., Henry M. Butzel Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, outside
teaching leave, Law School, January 1-May 31, 2002
Lewis, Richard L., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without
tenure, College of Engineering, scholarly activity leave, Jan 1-May 31, 2002
Mackintosh, Frederick C., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, outside teaching leave, January 1-December 31, 2002
Mitchell, Michele, Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of AfroAmerican and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31,
2002
Rabe, Barry G., Professor of Environmental Policy, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2002
Roberston, Jennifer E., Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2002


209




F ebrluary Mfeeting, 200D2


Siedel, George J. III., Williamson Family Professor of Business Administration and Professor of
Business Law, History, and Communication, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Siegmund, Stefanie B., Assistant Professor of History and Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, personal leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Steneck, Nicholas H., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Professional Ethics, without tenure, College of Engineering, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2002
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Baker, Diane L., Clinical Associate Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School, December 31, 2001
Biggs, Wendy S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School, January 11, 2002
Bollinger, Lee C., President of the University, Office of the President, and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, December 31, 2001
Bradley, David J., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, January 4, 2002
Chaves, Maria D. S., Lecturer in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31,
2001
DiGiovanni, Robert B., Lecturer in Technical Communication, College of Engineering, December 31,
2001
Dronen, Steven C., Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, with tenure, Medical School,
January 31, 2002
Faix, Roger G., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School,
December 31, 2001
Herring, Gioia M., Clinical Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
January 11, 2002
Hunt, Karen A., Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, December 27, 2001
Negele, Judy C., Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, January 20, 2002
Schaal, Patty G., Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, December 31, 2001
Spadoni, Virginia T., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, January 4, 2002
Steuer, Daniel, Lectuer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2001
Retired
Beals, Theodore F., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, December 31, 2001
Beckley, Robert M., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, May 31, 2002
Boylan, Paul C., Professor of Music, with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2002
Dumas, Rhetaugh G., Vice Provost Emerita, Dean Emerita, and Lucille Cole Professor of Nursing and
Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, December 31, 2001
Ertel, Inta J., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School,
December 31, 2001
Haywood, Lorna M., Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2002
Martin, James B., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public
Health, December 31, 2001
Reynolds, H. Robert, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, Director of University Bands, and Professor of
Conducting, with tenure, School of Music and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, May 31,
2002
Wiseman, John R., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2001
Akervall, Jan A., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, January 19, 2002
Stewart, Vera L., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, December 20, 2001
Dleceasedf
Maloy, Bernard P., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology,
November 28, 2001


210




February Meeting, 2002


CANCELLATION OF PFRVIOUSLY APPROVED
REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Emr, Scott D., cancellation of communication submitted and approved in the October 2000 Regents'
meeting appointing Scott D. Emr as Co-Director, Life Sciences Institute
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for 13 retiring
faculty members.
Eric M. Aupperle, research scientist, retired from active faculty status on January 4,
2002, after a distinguished and productive career as an engineer, researcher, teacher, and
manager.
Mr. Aupperle earned B.S. degrees in electrical engineering and engineering
mathematics in 1957, an M.S. degree in nuclear engineering in 1958, and a professional
degree, Instm.E. in computer information and control engineering, in 1964, all from the
University of Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1963 as an
assistant research engineer at the Cooley Electronic Laboratory and as a lecturer in the
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering. He was promoted to associate
research engineer in 1963, research engineer in 1967, and research scientist in 1974. His
lectureship appointment continued through 1988.
Mr. Aupperle's work at the Cooley Electronic Laboratory included a variety of
government and industry funded research projects involving electronic devices and later,
computers. His courses included electrical engineering and computer topics at both the
undergraduate and graduate levels. He also organized and taught week-long summer
courses in the College of Engineering's Summer Short Course program during much of
this period.
In the fall of 1969, Mr. Aupperle joined Merit Computer Network as project leader
to oversee the technical implementation of a computer network linking the academic
computer systems of Michigan State University, the University of Michigan, and Wayne
State University. Merit's initial network was activated in stages and formally dedicated
in May 1973. This network, now known as MichNet, has evolved ever since and, today,
is the most extensive and advanced Internet infrastructure in Michigan. Mr. Aupperle
was appointed director of Merit in 1974 and president in 1988, a position he held until
July 2001. His leadership of Merit was highlighted by the implementation of the National
Science Foundation's nationwide NSFNET from 1987-95 in partnership with IBM and
MCI.   The successful NSFNET initiative is credited as a critical factor in the
development of the Internet.
The Regents now salute this distinguished researcher, teacher, and leader for his
dedicated service by naming Eric M. Aupperle research scientist emeritus.
William C. Birdsall, Ph.D., associate professor of social work, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2001.
Professor Birdsall received his A.B. degree in 1958 and his Ph.L. degree in 1959
from St. Louis University. He earned his Ph.D. degree in economics from The Johns
Hopkins University in 1963. He earned his B.D. and S.T.L. degrees in theology at
Woodstock College in 1966 and 1967, respectively. He joined the School of Social
Work as an associate professor of social work in 1973.
His major interests were in policy analysis and program evaluation. He has done
extensive work around policies regarding prevention and treatment of women's drug


211




February Mleeting, 2002


abuse, social security and welfare programs, and measuring poverty and inequality. He
has evaluated programs regarding mental health client outcome studies, evaluation design,
benefit cost analyses, survey research, and validation of microsimulation models.
Professor Birdsall has been a principal investigator on several major projects,
including the Detroit Area Study and USHHS-SSA research grants, and has authored or
co-authored a number of book chapters, journal articles, and other publications. He has
served as member and chair of the University's Budget Priorities Committee, vice president
and president of the UM Chapter of the American Association of University Professors, and
member of the American Economics Association, the American Statistical Association, the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the Association for Public
Policy Analysis and Management.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming William C.
Birdsall associate professor emeritus of social work.
Susan Boehm, Ph.D., associate professor of nursing, retired from active faculty
status on November 13, 2001, after a most productive career as a teacher, mentor, and
researcher.
Professor Boehm received her B.S.N. degree from St. John College in Cleveland,
Ohio, in 1960; and her M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1974
and 1976, respectively. She joined the faculty as an instructor in 1974 and was appointed
to assistant professor in 1976 and associate professor in 1979.
Professor Boehm was nationally renowned for her teaching and research in the area
of medical surgical nursing with a specific focus on patient adherence to treatment as
prescribed in chronic illness and has a number of publications. She taught at the
baccalaureate, masters, and doctoral level and, in 1991, was named an Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor for her high commitment and competence in teaching in the undergraduate
program. In addition, she was sought as a mentor for students working on Master's and
Doctoral degrees.
Professor Boehm held a number of administrative positions in the School of
Nursing, including director of the Nursing Health Services Administration Program,
associate dean for administration, and associate dean for student affairs. She served on
the executive board for the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and chaired
the Academic Affairs Advisory Committee to the provost and executive vice president
for academic affairs. On the national level, she served in two major professional policy
positions: co-chair of the National Council of Nurse Researchers and as a member of the
Cabinet on Nursing Research of the American Nurses Association. She is an elected
member of the American Academy of Nursing and the Society of Behavioral Medicine.
The Regents now salute this distinguished nurse educator and scholar for her
dedicated service by naming Susan Boehm associate professor emerita of nursing.
John B. Burch, Ph.D., curator of mollusks in the Museum of Zoology and professor
of zoology, College of Literature Science and the Arts, and professor of natural
resources, School of Natural Resources and Environment, retired from active faculty
status on December 31, 2001.
Professor Burch received his B.S. degree from Randolph-Macon College in 1952,
his M.S. degree from the University of Richmond in 1954, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1959. From 1955-62, he was a research assistant, then
research associate. 1- joined the faculty of the University of Michigan Museum of
Zoology and Department of Zoology as a curator and assistant professor in 1962. He was


212




February Meeting, 2002


promoted to associate professor in 1964 and professor in 1970. He served as the chair of
the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology from 1979-81 and was named
professor of natural resources in 1980.
Professor Burch's research focuses on freshwater mollusks and infectious diseases,
and he has more than 180 publications. His special contributions have been in
cytotaxonomy and evolution of snails, cell and tissue culture of mollusks, and snails as
vectors of disease. An internationally known scholar, he received the Lifetime
Achievement Award of the Freshwater Mollusk Conservation Society and special
recognition from the Science Society of Thailand, Malacological Society of the
Philippines, and Korean Society of Malacology, as well as adjunct appointments in
Canada, China, India, Australia, Cuba, and elsewhere. He is chair of the International
Advisory Committee, International Society for Medical and Applied Malacology.
Professor Burch chaired 20 doctoral committees and 6 master's committees and served
as external examiner for 23 doctoral degrees at foreign universities. He founded the
international journal Malacologia and served on the editorial boards of 7 journals, as
well as editing the publications of the Museum of Zoology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming John B. Burch
curator emeritus of mollusks, professor emeritus of zoology, and professor emeritus of
natural resources.
Roy C. Cowen, Jr., Ph.D., professor of German in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2001.
Professor Cowen received his B.A. degree from Yale University in 1952 and his
Ph.D. degree from Gottingen University in 1960. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1960 as an instructor and was promoted to assistant professor in 1964,
associate professor in 1967, and professor in 1971.
Professor Cowen has been a popular and demanding teacher whose repertory
includes numerous courses on German literature from the eighteenth to the twentieth
century. In 1967, he received the John Williams Award for Teaching in the Humanities.
Professor Cowen has accumulated a distinguished record of service. From 1979-85, he
served as department chair, and from  1986-2001, he was the editor of Michigan
Germanic Studies. In 1985, the government of the Federal Republic of Germany
awarded him the Senior Officers Cross for his overall professional achievements.
Most of Professor Cowen's publications focus on German literature from the early
nineteenth to the early twentieth centuries, but he has also written on literature from
earlier and later time periods. As a scholar, he has attained a high level of national and
international visibility. He is particularly well known for his publications on drama,
especially the works of Grabbe and Hauptmann. Professor Cowen is the author of 46
articles and 8 books, among them his book on naturalism, which has gone through 3
editions. He has published 6 editions, including a 3-volume edition, of Grabbe's works,
and a 2-volume collection of naturalist dramas.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Roy C. Cowen, Jr.,
professor emeritus of German.
Armand A. Lauffer, Ph.D., professor of social work, retired from active faculty
status on December 31, 2001.
Professor Lauffer received his B.A. degree from Roosevelt University in 1956, his
M.S.W. degree from Wayne State University in 1959, and his Ph.D. degree from Brandeis


213




February Meeting, 2002


University in 1969. He joined the School of Social Work as an associate professor in
1968 and was promoted to professor of social work in 1973.
His research interests were in fundraising and resource allocation in the nonprofit
sector; community self-help; the Jewish ethic in Jewish communal services; and ethnic
identity as a source of social activism. These have taken him to both Israel and Russia,
where he worked with colleagues on the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee
(JDC) and at the Brookdale Institute on evaluating the relationships among volunteerism,
community, and reemergence of Jewish identity in the former Soviet Union. Other areas
of scholarly interest are management and human services. During his career, Professor
Lauffer founded and directed Project STaR (Service, Training, and Research in Jewish
Communal Development), a professional leadership training program in Jewish
communal service housed in the School of Social Work. He has mentored and trained
many graduate students who now work in the Jewish community as professionals in
federations, community centers, family services, and other organizations.
Professor Lauffer has written nearly two dozen texts on community organizing,
social planning, staff and organizational development, simulation gaming, and other
topics. These include Working in Social Work; Careers, Colleagues, and Conflicts:
Understanding Gender, Race, and Ethnicity in the Workplace; Social Planning at the
Community Level; Community Organizers and Social Planners; Understanding Your
Social Agency; Assessment Tools; Getting the Resources You Need; Volunteers; and The
Practice of Continuing Education in the Human Services. He is series editor of the
Sage Human Service Guides and series coeditor of Sourcebooks for the Human
Services.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Armand A.
Lauffer professor emeritus of social work.
John D. Marquardt, Ph.D., associate professor of accounting in the School of
Management, University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
2001.
A native of Michigan, Professor Marquardt received his A.B. degree from the
University of Michigan-Flint in 1966, his M.B.A. degree from Western Michigan
University in 1967, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Illinois at Urbana in
1975. From 1972-75, he was an assistant professor at Michigan State University and
from 1975-80 he taught at the University of Central Florida. He joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan-Flint as an associate professor in 1980.
Professor Marquardt was active in developing the Certified Internal Auditor
Examination for the Institute of Internal Auditors. His research has focused on the
educational and examination programs of professional groups, notably the Institute of
Internal Auditors' C.I.A. programs. He also studied the auditing of an organization's
training function and the attitudes conveyed by internal auditors, which included analysis
of the cost/benefit relationship of training activities and the productive ways to improve
that relationship.
Professor Marquardt has contributed broadly to the School of Management through
his committee, administrative, and professional services.  His community service
includes projects with Dupuis & Ryden and Volunteer Income Tax Assistance through
Beta Alpha Psi, the honorary accounting association. This program has provided support
to over 250 elderly and low-income families in Flint. Professor Marquardt was selected
as the University of Michigan-Flint recipient of the 2000 Michigan Campus Compact


214




February Mleeting, 2002


Community Service-Learning Award. He has been a faculty advisor and has served on
the Faculty Development and Awards Committee and the Career Planning and Placement
Advisory Board.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming John D. Marquardt
associate professor emeritus of accounting.
James B. Martin, Ph.D., associate professor of health management and policy in
the School of Public Health, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2001.
Professor Martin earned his B.S. degree in 1968, his M.S. degree in 1970, and his
Ph.D. degree in 1974, all in industrial and operations engineering and all from the
University of Michigan. He joined the faculty of the School of Public Health in 1974 as
an assistant research scientist in the Department of Hospital Administration. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1975 and associate professor in 1979.
Early in his career, Professor Martin's research focused on cost containment,
improving operational efficiencies and increasing the use of information systems in
healthcare organizations. He and his colleagues used large-scale computer simulation
models to predict the operation of healthcare organizations when various operating
characteristics were changed. The objectives of these models included controlling
variance in census levels, balancing the demand for hospital beds and operating room
capacity, and predicting the need for acute care beds in a single hospital or a region.
These models were used in the late 1970s to help the University of Michigan determine
the correct size for its replacement hospital.
Professor Martin's research demonstrated how to design, build, implement, and
operate integrated information systems that improved the effectiveness, efficiency, and
quality of healthcare operations. Under a research grant from Henry Ford Hospital during
the 1980s, he developed an integrated set of medical records, utilization review, surgical
suite, and decision support systems. During the 1990s, his focus shifted to information
systems within healthcare organizations. He developed a new approach to healthcare
information systems called the Component Alignment Model, applied this model in 15
healthcare systems worldwide, and taught extensively in continuing education venues
about healthcare information technology strategic planning.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James B. Martin associate
professor emeritus of health management and policy.
Carolyn M. Mawby, associate professor of music in the College of Arts and
Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
2001, after an extraordinary 27-year career as a founding member of the music/art
department.
Professor Mawby received her B.M. degree in 1958 from Michigan State University
and her M.M. degree in 1963 from Boston University. She joined the faculty of UM-Flint
in 1974 as assistant professor of music and was promoted to associate professor in 1979.
Professor Mawby established a choral music program at UM-Flint which was recognized
for its excellence statewide. She taught all core music history courses and directed the
University Chorale and Chamber Singers. Under her direction, the Chamber Singers
appeared as the invited performing group at several American Choral Directors
Association conventions in the Midwest.
Professor Mawby's contributions to the community are a model for art educators in
higher education. In 1983, she founded and directed the enormously successful Junior
and Senior Summer Academies of Music, choral music day camps for promising young


215




February Meeting, 2002


musicians. Their primary objectives were identifying a child's proclivity in music and
developing and nurturing it in a summer day camp setting. Hundreds of students in the
greater Flint area have participated in these academies, and nationally respected leaders
in the field of choral music education served as conductors. In 1999-2000, the Michigan
Music Educators recognized Professor Mawby as "Administrator of the Year" for her
work with the summer music academies.
Professor Mawby founded the Alumni Choir, which consisted initially of former
members of the UM-Flint Chamber Singers but has since expanded to include others
interested in choral performance. Professor Mawby's dedication to the art of choral
music demonstrates a commitment to the highest standards of music-making for all.
The Regents salute this faculty member by naming Carolyn M. Mawby associate
professor emerita of music.
Samuel J. Meisels, Ed.D., professor of education in the School of Education and
research scientist in the Center for Human Growth and Development, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2001.
Professor Meisels received his A.B. degree from the University of Rochester in
1967 and his Ed.M. and Ed.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1969 and 1973,
respectively. He was a preschool and elementary school teacher in Massachusetts from
1969-72. From 1973-80, he was on the faculty of Tufts University. Professor Meisels
came to the University of Michigan in 1980 as program director for special education,
Institute for the Study of Mental Retardation and Related Disabilities, and associate
professor in the School of Education. He was named associate research scientist in 1983
and was promoted to professor and research scientist in 1986. From 1992-95, he served
as associate dean for research in the School of Education.
Professor Meisels' research interests include assessments in early childhood
programs and elementary schools and policy issues in the implementation of early
intervention programs. Through his extensive research and publications he has had a
national impact on early childhood assessments and instructional reform. Professor
Meisels' "Work Sampling System"f' is widely used as a tool for student assessment,
professional development, and instructional reform. He has served as an evaluator and
consultant both here and abroad and has worked with such entities as the U.S. Department
of Education, the National Academy of Sciences, Head Start, and the National
Association of State Boards of Education. A popular teacher and mentor, Professor
Meisels taught undergraduate and graduate classes in assessment in early childhood, high
risk infancy, special education, and educational assessment of disabled children. He
recently received the Ferguson Award in Early Childhood Education from National-Louis
University in Chicago and the Sunny Days Award from Sesame Street Parents'
Magazine which recognizes individuals "who have enriched children's minds and
brightened their lives."
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Samuel J. Meisels
professor emeritus of education and research scientist emeritus.
Nola J. Pender, Ph.D., professor of nursing and associate dean for research in the
School of Nursing, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2001.
Professor Pender received her B.S.N. and M.A. degrees from Michigan State
University in 1964 and 1965, respectively, and her Ph.D. degree from Northwestern
University in 1969. From 1969-90, she served on the faculty of the Northern Illinois


216




February Meeting, 2002


University School of Nursing. She joined the faculty at the University of Michigan
School of Nursing in 1990 as professor and director of the Center for Nursing Research.
Professor Pender served as director of the University's Child and Adolescent
Health Behavior Center from 1991-2000 and as associate dean for academic affairs and
associate dean for research in the School of Nursing from 1994-98. After assisting the
dean in restructuring the school and streamlining the Office of Academic Affairs, she
stepped down as associate dean for academic affairs but retained the title of associate
dean for research. She has been the motivating force behind the growth and development
of the Grants and Research Office (GRO). The number of grants produced through GRO
has expanded significantly.  She has been active on multiple University faculty
committees and has mentored numerous students in the baccalaureate, masters, and
doctoral programs.
Professor Pender is renowned nationally and internationally as a scholar in the area
of health promotion. She is the author of a classic text, Health Promotion in Nursing
Practice, and has made numerous presentations and done extensive research on illness
prevention and health promotion.  She has been principal investigator on many
externally-funded research projects and has authored many articles and chapters in
nursing and other disciplinary journals. She serves on the board of directors of Research
America and the US Preventive Services Task Force and is on the executive committee of
"Building Health Promotion into the National Research Agenda."
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Nola J. Pender professor
emerita of nursing.
John R. Wiseman, Ph.D., professor of chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2001.
Professor Wiseman received his B.S. degree from the University of Colorado in
1957 and his Ph.D. degree from Stanford University in 1965. From 1957-60, he was a
commissioned officer in U.S. Public Health Service. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor of chemistry in 1966. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1970 and professor in 1976.
Professor Wiseman is an internationally-respected teacher, scientist, and scholar.
His research focused on an insightful and unique recognition that a well-accepted and
long-standing proposal, known as Bredt's rule, was in fact incorrect. The structural basis
for Bredt' s rule was that double bonds could not exist at the bridgehead of bicyclic
systems and this seemed evident from the simple examination of models and the practical
experience that no molecule having such architectural elements had been prepared.
Professor Wiseman proposed a totally new way of looking at these systems and showed
that it was correct by the synthesis of a framework that had previously been believed
impossible. Professor Wiseman and his research group then went on to characterize
almost all of the various "violations of Bredt's rule" compounds. These groundbreaking
studies stand as a monumental accomplishment in physical and synthetic organic
chemistry, and created an avalanche of new directions for organic chemistry.
Professor Wiseman has taught virtually every laboratory graduate and undergraduate
course offered by the organic chemistry division at the University. In the beginning
organic courses, he was distinguished for his continued s  asttention to
students. He served for many years as an undergraduate counselor within the Department
of Chemistry, and his thoughtful and skillful mentorship extended to graduate students and
associates as well.


217




Felbruary Mleeting, 2002


The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by naming
John R. Wiseman professor emeritus of chemistry.
Wen-Jei Yang, Ph.D., professor of mechanical engineering and professor of
biomedical engineering in the College of Engineering, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 2001.
Professor Yang received his B.S.E. degree from National Taiwan University in
1954 and his M.S.E. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1956 and
1960, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer and
research associate in the Department of Mechanical Engineering in 1961 and was
promoted to assistant professor in 1962, associate professor in 1965, and professor in
1970. He was appointed professor of biomedical engineering in 1997.
Professor Yang was a pioneer in flow visualization and microscopic description of
transport phenomena, from biological to high-technology systems. He also made original
and high-impact contributions to fluid flow and heat transfer of rotating machineries. His
research efforts in bioheat and mass transfer include original visualization of transport
phenomena in plants and hyperthermia, pulmonary, and cardiovascular biomechanics. He
has also made original contributions to the dynamics of nucleate boiling and droplet
evaporation. Over the years, he taught many undergraduate and graduate students and
supervised a number of Ph.D. students, many of whom have risen to prominent positions.
Professor Yang has left his mark in all the continents of the world. He is recognized
by various academies and societies in Italy, Germany, Japan, China, and the United
States. He was one of the founders of the Pacific Rim (and International) Transport
Phenomena Symposia. Professional recognition of his work includes the American
Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Heat Transfer Memorial Award, the Strouhal
Award in Flow Visualization, a Fulbright Lectureship Award, and election as an
Honorary Member of the Heat Transfer Society of Japan. He is the author or co-author of
a number of books and more than 600 articles and has been the senior editor of several
international journals. Professor Yang is a humble individual with high ethical standards
who has represented the University of Michigan around the world in a most distinguished
manner.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Wen-Jei Yang professor
emeritus of mechanical engineering and professor emeritus of biomedical engineering.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents this
month.
Degrees. Interim Provost Courant submitted final degree lists for the December
2001 commencements and changes for previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Proposed Changes in Regents' Bylaws Sections 1.01, 1.04, 1.06, 1.07, and 1.09
Regent Brandon commented that at the last meeting he had invited community input on
his proposed amendments to the Regents' Bylaws, which called for a board chair to be
elected by the board, serving two-year terms coinciding with the academic year. The chair
would preside at meetings when the president cannot attend; would consult with the
president in the preparation of meeting agendas; and would make committee assignments
and appoint committee chairs. The proposed bylaw amendments also established the


218




February Meeting, 2002


position of vice chair of the board, which would be an elected position serving a two-year
term coincidental with the chair. The vice chair would complete the term of chair if the
chair was removed, resigned, or was not re-elected to the board.
Regent Brandon also noted that he had proposed the creation of two committees: a
finance, audit, and investment committee, as well as a compensation and personnel
committee. The president would be an ex-officio member of each committee. There
would be three Regents on each committee, and the chair of the board would appoint the
chair of each of these standing committees. The terms of the committees would coincide
with the term of the chair, and the Regents would have the prerogative to add additional
committees as they deem     appropriate.  Other proposed changes include deleting
references to the term "senior Regent," as well as minor revisions relating to updates in
methods of communication.
In the interim, Regent Brandon commented that Regent Maynard had made some
suggestions to his original proposal, and he has changed his original proposal to reflect
three of these suggestions. These dealt with the methods by which the Regents call a
special meeting, the way a deadlock would be broken in the event of a tie vote for
election of the chair, and the method by which the meeting agenda would be prepared.
Regent Brandon noted that since the last meeting he had received comments from
four individuals, including a former Regent, about the proposed bylaw changes, and all
were supportive. There was one letter from a faculty member who was against the
proposal. He noted that nobody had signed up to address the board at Public Comments
about this issue, and recommended adoption of his proposed Bylaws revisions.
Regent Taylor moved adoption of Regent Brandon's proposed bylaw amendments;
Regent White seconded the motion. (Additions are in italics; deletions are crossed out.)
Sec. 1.01. Meetings of the Board
Meetings of the Board of Regents (hereinafter sometimes referred to in these bylaws as the
Board) shall be held monthly at times determined by the Board unless eliminated in advance by
consent of the Board.
Special meetings may be called by the president of the university, when necessary, or at the
request of three or more Regents.
Emergency action may be taken by the Board between meetings if and when any matter arises
which, in the opinion of the president, or any three members of the Board, requires official
action by the Board prior to the next meeting. An affirmative vote by telegraph, telephone,
email, facsimile, or electronic mail from five members is required for action.
Sec. 1.04. Quorum
A quorum for business shall be five voting members of the Board, participating in person or
by conference telephone or video conference.
Sec. 1.06. President and Secretary Officers of the Board
A. President and Secretary of the Board
The president of the university shall preside at meetings of the Board, without the right to vote.
The vice president and secretary of the university shall act as secretary of the Board.
If during any meeting of the Board, th presLident is obliged to be absent therefrom for anyreason, the Regent then present who is senior in service as a member of the Board shall assumethe duties of. presiding offer of the etie....  sh.all act as such until the rxesident retIrns tothe mleet.ig an assumes the role of presiding fficer..(Sc also-Sees. 2.01 and 2.10.)

219




Fe ebruary M/eeting, 20)02


B. Chair and Vice Chair of the Board
1. Selection.
Members of the Board of Regents shall elect a chair and vice-chair for two-year terms to
begin on July 1 of every even-numbered year and to end on June 30 of the next
even-numbered year, except that the initial elections for chair and vice chair shall be for
terms beginning at the time of the election and ending on June 30, 2004. No less than sixty
days before the expiration of terms of the current chair and vice chair, the Board shall elect
a new chair and vice chair. The chair and vice chair may be removed by vote of at least six
members of the Board of Regents.
Nominations shall be made and secondedfor the offices of chair and vice chair. Votes shall
be cast in public by all voting members of the Board. The candidate receiving a simple
majority of those votes cast by members of the Board shall be elected to the position. For
each position, if no nominee receives a simple majority of those votes cast on the first
ballot, a second ballot shall be held to include only those two candidates receiving the
greatest number of votes cast on the first ballot. If no candidate receives a simple majority
of votes cast on the second ballot, for either chair or vice chair, the person currently
serving as chair (or vice chair) will continue to serve in that office until a candidate
receives a majority of votes cast for that office. If the current chair is unwilling or
unavailable to continue in that position until a new chair is elected, the current vice chair
will assume that position.
Should the chair resign or be removed as chair or otherwise be unavailable to serve as
chair during the remainder of the term, the vice chair will automatically assume that
position for the remainder of the term and a new vice chair will be selected at the next
meeting of the Board of Regents.
Should the vice chair resign or be removed as vice chair or otherwise be unavailable to
serve out the reminder of his or her term, a new vice chair will be selected at the next
meeting of the Board of Regents.
2. Duties.
If during any meeting of the Board the president is obliged to be absent therefrom for any
reason, the chair shall assume the duties of the presiding officer of the meeting and shall
act as such until the president returns to the meeting and assumes the role of presiding
officer.
The chair and vice chair shall perform such additional duties as prescribed by the Board
from time to time.
In the event the chair is temporarily unavailable to perform his or her duties at any time,
the vice chair shall assume the chair's responsibilities.
Sec. 1.07. Committees of the Whole
A. Committee of the Whole
When the Board shall resolve itself into a committee of the whole, the chair of the Board
shall serve as chair of the committee.president, unless an election is ordered by a majority
vote of the Regents who are present, shall designate a Regent who shall be chair of said
committee. The election of a chair shall be by written ballot cast by the Regents who arepeseft.
B. Committees
The chair may appoint committees of the Board and the Board shall prescribe their duties
andfunctions. The president of the University or the president's designee shall serve as an
ex officio member without vote of all such committees. Board membership on any committee
shall consist of less than a quorum of the membership of the Board.
C. Standing Committees


220




Fe ebruary M/eeting, 20)02


There shall be two standing committees of the Board of Regents, each composed of three
members of the Board selected by the chair. These committees shall advise the Board of
Regents on matters pertaining to their subject areas and shall present periodic reports and
recommendations, but shall not have the power to bind the Board of Regents on any matter.
These committees shall determine the frequency, time and place of their meetings, in
consultation with other members of the Board.
1. The Finance, Audit and Investment Committee
This committee shall provide assistance to the Board in fulfilling its
responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the University's
internal controls and financial reporting and investment policies and practices.
This committee shall review, at its discretion, matters that may include the annual
audit, financial statements and reporting, investments, and compliance with
applicable laws and regulations.
2. The Compensation and Personnel Committee
This committee shall provide assistance to the Board in evaluating the
performance of and determining the appropriate level of compensation for the
president.  It also shall advise the president on the performance of and
compensation for the executive officers. The committee shall, at its discretion,
review performance goals and evaluations, market data, salary studies, and other
relevant information.
Sec. 1.09 Order of BusincssMeeting Agenda
The program for business shall be prepared by the president, in consultation with the chair of
the Board. It shall be sent by mail to each Regent seven days before the next stated meeting of
the Board, provided that further items on the program for any meeting or to which the Regents
have not had such notice may be considered and acted upon by the Board. At any time any
Regent may propose any subject or subjects for consideration and action.
The program announcement shall also include a printed copy of the minutes of the previous
meeting.
Regent Taylor commented that he had been shocked to discover when he joined the
board that it operated as a committee of the whole, without committees or subcommittees.
There had been much talk about this over the years among the Regents, he noted, and he
believes this is a "good governance" move. He pointed out that the proposed governance
system is the norm among governing boards, while the University's current system is an
anomaly. Regarding the notion that a reorganization of the Board's governing structure
might shift the current balance of power or authority, he said he does not believe this
proposal would shift power or authority to or from the president or the Regents. He
believes it will make the president's job easier and will facilitate the lines of
communication between the president and the Regents. He also said he believes that the
proposed structure would assist the Regents in carrying out their fiduciary responsibility,
and would not result in micromanaging of University affairs by the Regents. He urged
adoption of the proposal.
Regent Maynard moved a substitute set of bylaws revisions, as noted below.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion.
Sec. 1.01. Meetings of the Board
Meetings of the Board of Regents (hereinafter sometimes referred to in these bylaws as the
Board) shall be held monthly at times determined by the Board unless eliminated in advance by
consent of the Board.
Special meetings may be called by the president of the university, when necessary, or at the
request of three or more Regents.


221




February Meeting, 2002
Emergency action may be taken by the Board between meetings if and when any matter arises
which, in the opinion of the president, or any three members of the Board, requires official
action by the Board prior to the next meeting. An affirmative vote by telegraph, telephone,
email facsimile, or electronic mail from five members is required for action.
Sec. 1.04. Quorum
A quorum for business shall be five voting members of the Board A member may participate
by conference telephone or video conference provided there is a quorum of the board
present.
Sec. 1.06. President and Secretary Officers of the Board
1. President and Secretary of the Board
The president of the university shall preside at meetings of the Board, without the right to vote.
The vice president and secretary of the university shall act as secretary of the Board.
f during any meeting of the Board, the president is obliged to be absent therefarom for any
reason, the Regent then present who is senior in service as a member of the Board shall assume
the duties of presiding officer of the meeting and shall act as such funtil the presidenft retfurns to
the m.+;et   and assumes the role of presiding;r  fcra,(See also Se1s. 2.01 and  1 0)
2. Chairperson:
Commencing on the first day in January immediately following each biennial fall election,
the office of chair of the board for the two following years shall be filled by the two
members of the board who were elected six years earlier or appointed to fill an unexpired
term of a member elected six years earlier. Each such member shall serve as chair for one
of the two following years, with the order of service determined alphabetically by last
name, provided, however, that in the year 2002, the Board may select any individuals from
among its members to serve as chair and vice chair for that year only.
3. Vice Chairperson:
The office of vice chairperson of the board shall be filled each year, for a one-year term, by
the member of the board who, in accordance with these bylaws, is due to fill the office of the
chairperson in the succeeding year.
4. Duties of Chair and Vice Chair.
If during any meeting of the Board the president is obliged to be absent therefrom for any
reason, the chair shall assume the duties of the presiding officer of the meeting and shall
act as such until the president returns to the meeting and assumes the role of presiding
officer.
In the event the chair is temporarily unavailable to perform his or her duties at any time,
the vice chair shall assume the chair's responsibilities.
The chair and vice chair shall perform such additional duties as prescribed by the Board in
these bylaws.
Sec. 1.07. Committees of the Whole
XWhen the Board shall resove itself into a commit+ee of the whole, the president, unless an
Is 11 I  FlIk ~..~.J 1 Ul ~k  WIor. V V 1 LOVI  1111.  U 1.1111111 [ [.l  k  VV 1ATE)  RlIk 1..Jl V O k l lIOO  UlIelection is ordered by a majority vote of the Regents who are present, shall designate a Regentwho shall be cha iF of said comittee. The election of a chair shall hbe by  e++n ballt 1+ast by+
the Regents who are present.
The board may establish by majority vote such advisory committees as may be deemed
appropriate from time to time and shall prescribe their composition, duties and functions.
The president or his designee shall serve ex-officio on all such committees.
Sec. 1.09 Order of BusinessMeeting Agenda
The program for business shall be prepared by the president, in consultation with the chair of
the Board. It shall be sent by mail to each Regent seven days before the next stated meeting of


the Board, provided that further items on the program for any meeting or to which the Regents


222




February Mleeting, 2002


have not had such notice may be considered and acted upon by the Board. At any time any
Regent may propose any subject or subjects for consideration and action.
The program announcement shall also include a printed copy of the minutes of the previous
meeting.
Regent Maynard noted that during an informal session, the Regents had discussed the
proposed Regents' bylaws changes in depth, and had been unable to come to consensus.
She expressed her view that the best course would be to delay any bylaws amendments
until the new president is in place, although she was aware that the majority did not share
this view. Due to her concerns about the detrimental nature of the changes offered by
Regent Brandon to the best interests of the University, she had decided to proffer her own
bylaws amendments. She commented that her proposals would keep the quorum
requirement of five board members being physically present at a meeting in order for
official business to be conducted. Only after that would others be allowed to participate
by teleconference or other means. She proposes election of the board chair and vice
chair on a nonpolitical rotation, to occur in the January following each biennial election,
as is the practice at Michigan State University. The Board would be permitted to
establish committees "as and when needed," and the Board would be encouraged to
thoroughly research the charge to any committees that would be established. The
president would continue to have the responsibility to prepare the agenda.
Regent Maynard described the discrepancies between her proposal and that of
Regent Brandon. First, the issue of a quorum, in which Regent Brandon proposes that a
quorum consist of five members of the Board who need not be present to participate. She
pointed out the appearance that would be presented by the current discussion taking place
by telephone, with members of the public present to observe the meeting and no board
members physically present. She stated that "teleconferencing by five or more on a
regular basis keeps the public from participating in and observing meetings." The public
meeting notice implies that it is the obligation of at least five members of the Board to be
physically present.
Regarding the chair and vice chair, Regent Maynard commented that Regent
Brandon's proposal "seems to anticipate the formation of a political agenda for the
election of the chair and the vice chair" of the Board. It provides for the removal of the
chair and vice chair from office, and includes specific provisions in the event the
nominee is unable to win majority support. Yet, she noted, "this University has achieved
its unique and outstanding reputation without any chairs. The history of the Regents has
been their ability to place the University first on their agendas, without any place for
politics. My proposal seeks to provide predictability without individual political
agendas, and to preserve the foremost position of the president." She noted that it is part
of the president's job description to "establish a good working relationship with all eight
of the Regents."
Regarding committees, Regent Maynard questioned why the decision on what
committees are needed should rest with the chair, and also, why the chair should have the
power to appoint committees. She commented, "This is not a private corporation. This
is a public institution where the power to run the University and its board meetings is
granted to the president." She said that she agrees that committees are necessary, but that
"their need, function, duties, and composition should be arrived at and recommended by
the president in consultation with the chair, and only after full consideration by all of the


223




February Meeting, 2002


Regents." Finally, she urged that all committees be advisory to the board and report
periodically to the full board, in recognition of the fact that the board does not operate in
secret. "Not to do so," she stated, "would be to violate our responsibility as a public
university." For these reasons, she explained, her revisions would give the board the
power to establish advisory committees as appropriate, and to actually form the
committees at a later time, after input and discussion.
Regent Maynard concluded: "For the University to continue to change and grow in
its vision, we do not need a Board of Regents focused on its own control and power. We
need a board that works with the president to address the many challenges we face as a
leader in higher education."
Regent McGowan made the following comments:
"This morning the members of the Board discussed two very different proposed
revisions to the Regents' bylaws. The first proposal, authored by Regent
Brandon, would significantly change the way we do business. This plan would,
for the first time in the University's history, have the Regents elect a chair and
vice chair of the Board. Both would be electedfor two-year terms, but could be
re-elected for an unlimited number of terms. Election would be by simple
majority, but once elected, the chair or vice chair could only be removed by a
supermajority vote. The role of these new officers are not fully specified —but
clearly the positions are designed to confer power and administrative authority
on their incumbents —and in the process create a new, diminished relationship
between each of the other Regents and the president and other members of the
University community.
Regent Brandon's proposal would immediately create standing committees
composed of less than a quorum of the Board, which Regent Brandon assures
us are not intended to operate in closed sessions out of the public view. That
assurance brings one measure of comfort —but too little is understood at this
junction on how they will operate. I believe the devil remains in the details. I
have concerns that the activity of the committees will certainly restrict the
amount of information which is shared generally among all the Regents
currently and with the public.
Additionally, this proposal will permit the Board to conduct its regular monthly
meetings with every member participating by telephone or video-conferencing,
thereby diminishing the interpersonal dynamics of the meetings themselves —as
well as limiting public access to Board members.
The other plan, authored by Regent Maynard, offers more gradual change, and
change which is intended to avoid political skirmishing over the way the Board
itself is organized and operates. Regent Maynard's proposal offers more
opportunity for input from the person who will be Michigan's next president,
as well as the University's executive officers. This plan would call for a chair
and vice chair who rotate annually based on seniority —so that each Regent
would serve as chair for one year during their eight-year term. This is the
system which Michigan State University has worked out, and it seems to work
well.


224




Felbruary Mleeting, 2002


Regent Maynard calls for the creation of standing committees, but suggests
that their creation shouldfollow a period of time during which the Regents and
the new president can discuss their role and method of operation. Her plan
permits attendance at Regents' meetings to be by telephone or videoconference,
but only if a quorum already is present in person. A quorum, after all, is only 5
of our 8 publicly elected members.
As you know, I believe the Board is getting ahead of itself by acting now to
revise its relationship with the University's president. We should wait until we
have selected a new president so we can hear his or her voice. But it is clear to
me that a majority of the Board has decided that it will act immediately.
Therefore, I will support Regent Maynard's well considered plan. It has much
to recommend it. First, it takes politics out of the choice of who will serve as
chair and vice chair.  We have more than enough to handle doing the
University's business without adding a new layer of Regental politics.
Creating a rotating chair will help assure that the voice of each of the 8
Regents is heard with equal clarity by the administration and the larger
University community.
The utility, role, and method of operation of Board committees will be the
subject of careful consideration by the Regents —and meaningful inputfrom the
new president.  This is vitally important if we are to discharge, but not
overstep, our proper role, which is to determine policy and provide oversight,
but not to dip in and try to manage certain aspects of the University's daily
activities.
And finally, Regent Maynard's proposal has a theme of openness and
accessibility in the way we hold our meetings and conduct our business. We
are the publicly elected members of the governing board of a great public
university. It is a large, highly complex institution with many constituencies.
To build and maintain trust we need the public and our many other
stakeholders to know how and why we make decisions —and indeed just to see
that we are on the job and doing the business of the University.
For these reasons, I will support Regent Maynard's proposed revision of the
Bylaws and I urge each of you to join me in doing so. "
Regent Deitch commented that the Board's internal organization has been discussed
informally for years. He thanked Regent Brandon for bringing the proposal forward and
Regent Maynard for offering interesting alternatives to that proposal and stated that he
supports Regent Brandon's proposal. With respect to the issues raised by Regent
Maynard, he noted that of the other two Michigan public universities with elected,
constitutionally autonomous boards, Michigan State follows the rotational model of
selecting its chair and Wayne State follows the model proposed by Regent Brandon.
Regarding the notion of taking politics out of an organization, he suggested that the term
"politics" means the relationships built by people who work together.  For an
organization to function together, he noted, "people have to build trust and to work
collaboratively." This, he commented, has been the tradition of this board, and will
continue to be its tradition. He said that Regent Brandon's proposal brings continuity and
emphasizes collaboration among the Regents.


225




February Meeting, 2002


Regent Deitch commented that the committees proposed by Regents Brandon and
Taylor make sense, and that to be functioning in 2002 without an audit committee and
without oversight of the University's investment policies is, "flat out," a breach of the
Board's fiduciary responsibilities and one of the responsibilities of governance. With
respect to compensation, he commented that "this needs to be constantly thought about,
monitored, and worked on collaboratively."
Regarding whether these changes should be made to the bylaws before or after a
new president is on board, Regent Deitch commented that "this is a matter of internal
organization, and the time to do it is now." The new president will come into office
understanding the structure, which, he pointed out, is similar to that of most other similar
boards.
Regent Deitch noted that Interim President White has a Ph.D. in organizational
behavior with an academic specialty in corporate governance, and this provides a unique
opportunity for the Board to receive guidance from an academic expert in these matters.
He said he would therefore support the Taylor/Brandon/White proposal.
The vote was then taken on Regent Maynard's substitute amendment, and it was
defeated on a vote of 6 to 2, with Regents Maynard and McGowan in favor, and the other
Regents opposed.
The vote was then taken on Regent Taylor's original motion, and it was approved by
a vote of 6 to 2, with Regents Maynard and McGowan opposed.
Regent Taylor moved the election of Regent Deitch as chair of the Board of Regents.
He suggested that the position of vice chair be left open for the time being, to give Regent
Deitch an opportunity to consult with the rest of the board on their individual interests
with respect to the vice chair position and committee service. Regent Horning seconded
the motion, and it was approved, with Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Newman,
Taylor, and White in favor and Regents Maynard and McGowan abstaining.
Regent Deitch thanked the other Regents for the vote of confidence, and expressed
the deep affection he has felt for the University for the past 37 years. He pointed out
factors that speak to the uniqueness and greatness of the University of Michigan as a
public university, especially its constitutional autonomy, and noted that each Regent is
independent and has equal power and status. The job of chair, he noted, is "to facilitate,
collaborate, consult, and move the business of the University forward in partnership with
the president and his or her colleagues in a way that enhances the greatness of this leading
institution."
Interim President White thanked the Regents for their thoughtful, conscientious work
on this issue.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Management Reports for the University of Michigan
Office of Student Publications and the University of Michigan Press, with
Management Responses
The Regents received PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Management Reports with
management responses for the Office of Student Publications and the University of
Michigan Press.


226




Felbruary Mleeting, 2002


Supplemental Policies for Charitable Gift Annuities
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents that supplemental policies for
charitable gift annuities were adopted in December 2001 for the purpose of realigning
responsibilities for the University's gift annuity program.
Alternative Asset Commitment
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents of the University's recent
commitment of $20.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to EnCap Energy Capital Fund
IV, L.P., a follow-on energy fund.
Fixed Income Management
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously
approved the appointment of Bridgewater Asset Management for Treasury Inflation
Protection Securities (TIPS) and Wellington Management Company as a fixed income
manager.
Central Heating Plant Tunnels Repair Tunnel Chamber
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regent unanimously
approved the Central Heating Plant Tunnels - Repair Tunnel Chamber project as described
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
Regent Homing left the meeting at this point.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Taubman Health
Center Level B1 Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers' Taubman Health
Center Level B1 Renovation Project as described in the Regents Communication and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
Purchasing Contract with Results Based Leadership Group, Inc.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, all seven Regents present
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Results Based Leadership Group, Inc.
Because David Ulrich is both a shareholder in the company and a University of Michigan
employee, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Business School's Executive Education Center, and Results Based Leadership Group,
Inc.
2.   The service to be provided is a series of seminars, to be conducted from August 13,
2001 through August 15, 2002, at a total cost of $103,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that David Ulrich, a University of
Michigan employee, is a shareholder, and co-author of work on which the seminar is
based.


227




February Meeting, 2002


Payment for Services of Grantshire Farm
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Grantshire Farm. Because the
sole proprietor of Grantshire Farm is also a University of Michigan employee, this contract
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Epidemiology, and Grantshire Farm.
2.   The product provided was antibody for research, provided in January 2002, at a total
cost of $4,500.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Barry G. England, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole proprietor of Grantshire Farm.
Agreement to Accept Research Support from Alan Krisch
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved an agreement with Professor Alan Krisch to provide a
research award of $20,000 to the University from personal funds to help fulfill the external
cost-sharing requirement of a federally-sponsored research project. Because Professor
Krisch is both a University of Michigan employee and a sponsor of the research, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Alan Krisch.
2.   Agreement terms are that Professor Krisch will provide cost-sharing funds of
$20,000 over a three-year period to assist in support of a research project on spin
physics.
3.   Professor Krisch's pecuniary interest involves his donation of personal funds to this
project.
Subcontract Research Agreement from the University of Michigan to KidsCare, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a subcontract agreement with KidsCare, Inc. ("Company") to fund a research
project at the University of Michigan Medical School. The project will be implemented by
a contract with the Regents of the University of Michigan to perform the research under a
grant the Company has received from the Michigan Department of Community Health.
Because Jean Robillard, M.D., and Patricia Warner are both University of Michigan
employees and members of the board of directors of KidsCare, Inc., this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be the University of Michigan and KidsCare, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed Agreement conform to University policy. Neither Dr.
Robillard nor Ms. Warner have played any role in the negotiation of the Agreement.
The period of performance for the project is three (3) sears at a total cost of
$4,883,999 including indirect cost at applicable State of Michigan rates. The
University's effort will be directed by Dr. Susan Bratton, clinical associate professor,
Pediatrics Intensive Care.
3.   Dr. Robillard and Ms. Warner have no pecuniary interest in the agreement.


228




Fe ebruary M/eeting, 20)02


Subcontract Research Agreement from     the University of Michigan to Michigan
Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved a subcontract research agreement from the University of
Michigan to Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. ("Company"), under which research
will be performed at the University of Michigan Department of Surgery under the
Company's grant. Because Robert Bartlett, M.D. is both part owner of the Company and a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical Care
Consultants, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The period of
performance for the project is six (6) months at a total cost of $83,643. The
University's effort in this project will be directed by Dr. Ronald Hirschl.
3.   Robert Bartlett has no pecuniary interest in the agreement.
Subcontract Research Agreement from     the University of Michigan to Michigan
Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract to Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. to allow
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. to participate in a research project funded by the
National Institutes of Health for development of a total artificial lung. Because Dr. Robert
Bartlett is both part owner of Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. and a University of
Michigan employee who is principal investigator for the project, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical Care
Consultants, Inc.
2.   Under the project a total subcontract of $1,606,717 is anticipated to cover the period
February 1, 2002, through December 31, 2006.  The University's standard
subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Bartlett's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Michigan
Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
Regent Newman left the meeting at this point.
Subcontract Research Agreement from      Xeotron Corporation to University of
Michigan
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, all six Regents present
unanimously approved a subcontract research agreement from Xeotron Corporation
("Company") to the University of Michigan that will allow research to be conducted at the
University under a grant received by the Company. Because Erdogan Gulari is both part
owner of the Company and a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Xeotron Corporation.
2.   The terms of the proposed Agreement conform to University policy. Dr. Gulari will
be the principal investigator for the project at the University to be conducted over a
three-year period at an estimated total cost of $522,711 including indirect cost at full


229




Felbruary Mleeting, 2002


federal rates. Dr. Gulari will not participate in the project in his capacity as an owner
of the Company.
3.  Dr. Gulari's pecuniary interest in the agreement arises from his ownership of
Xeotron Corporation.
712 Oakland Avenue
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved acquisition of the property at 712 Oakland Avenue at the negotiated price of
$1,235,000, subject to the University satisfying itself with the site's environmental conditions.
President's Residence Infrastructure Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that the infrastructure renovation project
is being submitted in response to a request from Regent Deitch at the last meeting. He noted
that the President's House is one of the most historically significant buildings on campus,
and it is also the focal point of important University functions for students, faculty, staff, and
guests. Three separate renovation projects are included in the action request: internal
infrastructure, external infrastructure, and internal elements.
Regent Deitch moved authorization for the internal and exterior infrastructure
improvements ("mechanical and electrical and exterior elements") as denoted in the
Regents Communication. He recommended reserving a decision on interior renovations
until a permanent president has been selected. Regent Deitch noted the importance of the
house as the last-standing original building on the Ann Arbor campus, and as a visible
symbol of the leadership of the University. He believes the University needs to do what
is necessary to "keep this jewel polished." Regent White seconded the motion and it was
approved unanimously.
Motion to Meet in Informal Session
Regent Maynard moved that the Regents adjourn this formal session of the Regents
and begin a nonformal session to consult with their attorney regarding potential litigation.
Regent Brandon seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. Following a
ten-minute recess, the meeting continued in informal session from 3:05 to 4:00 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents reconvened in formal session at 4:00 p.m., and heard comments from the
following individuals on the topics indicated: James Wilson, student, on political bias at
the University; James D'Amour, Northeast Area Plan Citizens Committee, Parma Yarkin,
citizen, Mike Garfield, Urban Environment Alliance, and Ray Detter, member of Citizens
Committee for the Downtown Development Authority, all on the Lower Town Plan; Cedric
de Leon, president of the Graduate Employees Union, on the status of GEO negotiations;
Kenneth Reiter, student, on residency classification and marital status; Kermit Schlansker,
citizen, on sustainability; Rabbi Jonathan Brown, citizen, Rev. Dr. Nile Harper, citizen, and
Jessica Barber, student, on the University's participation in United Way; and Alex Bates,
student, on child care.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:00 p.m. The next
meeting will take place March 14-15, 2002.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretarv of the Universit-y


230




MARCH MEETING, 2002


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 14, 2002
The Regents convened at 1:30 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were Interim
President White and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Interim Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive
Vice President Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little,
Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Maynard was absent.
President's Opening Remarks
Interim President White called the meeting to order. He announced that he and Vice
President Wilbanks would be meeting the next day with the mayor of Detroit to discuss the
relationship between the University and the city of Detroit. He commented on the
accomplishments and awards of a number of University students, faculty, staff, and alumni
and highlighted some upcoming campus events. He also announced the deaths of Professor
Lemuel Johnson and of philanthropist Elizabeth Kennedy. He then turned to the Consent
Agenda.
Consent Agenda
/Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the February
14, 2002 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Investment, Plant
Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action. He announced that a settlement
had been reached and a contract signed with the International Union of Operating
Engineers (IUOE).
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report. He
also announced that Associate Vice President and Deputy General Counsel Elizabeth
Barry would be taking a new position as managing director of the Life Sciences Institute.
He acknowledged her accomplishments at the University and within the Office of the
General Counsel. A round of applause followed.
Research Report.    Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for February 1 - February 28, 2002.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn said he
would reserve his comments until his scheduled report later in the meeting.
Diision    of Student Affairs.  Vice President Harper called attention to the
appointment of Dr. Robert Winfield as director of the University Health Service.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little introduced Urana Gray,
president of the University of Michigan-Dearborn student government. Ms. Gray spoke to
the Regents about the nature of the student body and campus community at the University


231




March Meeting 2002


of Michigan-Dearborn. In response to a question from Interim President White, she stated
that the number one issue for students on the Dearborn campus is the cost of education and
the desire to keep tuition at a reasonable level.
Univelrsity of Michigan-Flin. Chancellor Mestas noted that a financial feasibility
study for student housing is being conducted and results will be available at the end of the
summer. He also reported that the William S. White Building has been completed and
move-in is underway. A dedication ceremony will be held in June.
Chancellor Mestas also reported that the mayor of Flint had been recalled and a
special election had been scheduled to choose his replacement, and he commented on the
deep-seated financial difficulties facing the city. Because the UM-Flint is a healthy
institution in sound financial shape, it has been called upon to help with the solution of the
city's problems, without losing sight of the fact that the University's most important
contribution to the city and the region is to provide education for its citizens.
MSA Report. Interim President White noted that this would be the last time MSA
president Matt Nolan would be attending a Regents' Meeting in his role as president of
MSA.
Mr. Nolan noted that since he last addressed the board, a decision had been made
not to place a cap on student season football tickets. This has been viewed very
favorably by the student body. He reported that the biggest issue for students on the Ann
Arbor campus is access, in the sense of offices and services being open more hours and
more resources being available on line. He said that among the accomplishments of his
administration had been the "amazing" working relationships that had been established
within the University. He thanked the Regents and administration for all of their support
during his tenure.
Regent Deitch commented that Matt Nolan stands out along with other past MSA
presidents who have been spectacular leaders and have gone on to further distinguish
themselves as University of Michigan alumni. A round of applause followed for Mr.
Nolan.
Voluntary Support     Interim Vice President Wilbanks submitted the Report of
Voluntary Support for February 2002.
Keith and Valerie Alessi Trust,,..........................,,,,,,,................,,,.  $40,000
for the UMBS Innovations Initiative Endowment and other support in
the School of Business Administration
American Chemical Society, Washington D.C..........................................  158,005
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia i..                70,000
for research in the Medical School
American Express, Phoenix, Arizona................................................... 110,000
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield.................................... 150,333
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Anonymous Donor................................................................. 485,238
5,000 shares of General Electric stock and
4,700 shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock
for support in the Medical School
Ann Arbor Area Communit Foundation, Ann Arbor...................................... 15,000
for support in the School of Social Work
Applied Materials Corporation, Santa Clara, California................................... 30,000
for research in the College of Engineering


232




March Meeting, 2002


Frank J. Arnold, St. Clair............................................................. 35,881
895 shares of Vivendi Universal common stock
for the KEC Building Fund in the Medical School
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia................................................  177,063
for research in the Medical School and the School of Public Health and the Institutes of
Gerontology and Social Research
Bank of American Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina.................................. 11,498
for employee matching gifts
Bank  of Ann  Arbor, Ann  Arbor........................................................  15,000
for the University Musical Society
Bergstrom  Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania........................................ 30,000
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Child Welfare Law Program in the Law School
Robert Hunt Berry, Ann  Arbor........................................................  11,923
288 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for research in the Medical School
Ronald  E. Berry, Dayton, Ohio.......................................................  10,019
304 various mutual fund shares
for the Ronald E. Berry Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering and the Martin Luther King Scholarship
M argaret G. Bertsch, Grand Rapids.................................................... 45,205
1,100 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Margaret Bertsch Research Endowment in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute
Blum-Kovler Foundation, Chicago, Illinois........................ 10,000
for support in the School of Business Administration
Edith  K. Brinkm an  Estate...........................................................  500,000
for support in the Medical School
Buhr Foundation, Ann  Arbor.......................................................... 20,000
for the Wilbur K. Pierpoint Fund in the School of Business Administration
Charles  Cannell Estate............................................................... 33,695
770 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Charles Cannell Fund in Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research
Gene H. Christian, Downington, Pennsylvania..........................................  10,000
for the Martha Cook Building Fund
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint........................................... 30,000
for research in the School of Public Health
W illiam   B. Corlis, D etroit...........................................................  50,000
for the Robert G. Rodkey Collegiate Professorship in the School of Business
Administration
Barbara  A. Curtis Estate............................................................  240,000
for the C.S. Mott Gift Fund and
for support in the Medical School
Daimler-Chrysler Corporation, Auburn Hills............................................ 20,000
for support in the School of Business Administration
Dickinson, Wright PLLC  Counsellors at Law, Detroit.................................... 20,250
for the Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize Fund in the Law School and
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Harold C. Early Trust........................................................... 65,610
for the Harold C. Early Assistant Professor Research Award Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Elim   City  Council, Elim, Alaska....................................................... 30,000
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration
Fashion Footwear Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New York....................... 10,000
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center
Ford  M otor Company, Dearborn......................................................  50,000
for support in the College of Engineering
Ford M otor Company Fund, Dearborn................................................. 143,100
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
for support in the School of Business Administration,
for minority fellowships in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and
for physics research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gloria Niemeyer Francke, W ashington, D.C.,............................................ 10,000
for the Gloria Francke Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
College of Pharmacy
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills........................... 22,500
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Melvin Friedland, New  York, New  York................................................ 25,000
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics


233




March Meeting, 2002


Ellen W eis Goldstein, Chevy Chase, Maryland........................................... 10,000
for the Goldstein Family Endowment Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
David Handleman, Bloomfield Hills.................................................... 100,000
for the David and Marion Handleman Academic Fund in the Medical School
Jam es C. H ogle  Estate.............................................................. 150,000
for the James C. and Ruth V. Hogle Army Scholarship
Honda of America Manufacturing, Inc., Marysville, Ohio.................................. 15,000
for research in the Transportation Research Institute
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland............................... 937,500
for research in the Medical School
The Japan Foundation, New York, New York............................................ 43,874
for support of the Law School
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey............................... 320,986
for research in the Medical School, the Schools of Public Health and Social Work, and
the Institute for Social Research
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois..................................................... 250,000
for research in the School of Social Work
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York......................... 352,353
for research in the Medical School
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey.............................................  14,852
for the University Hospitals
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas................................ 147,474
for support in the Medical School and
for research in the School of Nursing
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina................................ 25,000
for the M.B. Landers, Sr., Memorial Student Loan Fund in the Medical School
J. Mark and Linda C. Lozier Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, M assachusetts.........................................................  25,000
for support in the School of Business Administration
Ann  Lurie, Chicago, Illinois.........................................................  100,000
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering
Marcy Hnath Maguire, Princeton, New  Jersey........................................... 15,000
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield.................................... 37,500
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
MBNA  America Bank, N.A., Wilmington, Delaware...................................... 10,730
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship
David J. M etzger, Chevy Chase, M aryland............................................... 20,000
for the David J. and Carole N. Metzger Endowed Scholarship and other support in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Herm an  L. M iller, Ann  Arbor.........................................................  75,270
1,200 shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock
for the Dorothy and Herman L. Miller Endowed Research in the Medical School
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota....................... 12,500
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering and
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute
J.P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York.................................... 25,000
for the MBA Peace Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration
Charles Stewart M ott Foundation, Flint.............................................. 1,616,485
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint
Elena M ouzakes-Siler Estate........................................................  402,377
20,369 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Elena Mouzakes-Siler and John Siler Memorial Scholarship and the
Constantine and Alexandra Mouzakes Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois............ 15,000
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
National Kidney Foundation, Ann Arbor................................................  14,870
for research in the Medical School
National Kidney Foundation Inc., New York, New York................................... 17,500
for support in the Medical School
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California....................................... 75,000
for support in the School of Dentistry
Edward C. Olson, Fort M eyers, Florida................................................ 115   165
2,000 shares of National City Corporation common stock and
1,000 shares of Merck & Company common stock
for the Edward and Joan Olson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Department of Chemistry in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts


234




March Meeting 2002


Pfizer Foundation, New  York, New  York...............................................  20,125
for employee matching ifts
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New  ork..................................................... 95,710
for support in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy and
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art
The Power Foundation, Kalamazo   o.................................................... 30,000
for the University Musical Society
Richard L. Prager, M.D., Trustee, Ann A r  b     o    r............................................ 1-5,000
for the Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust..................................................... 12,209
for the Franke E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School
Sinai Medical Staff Foundation, Southfield.............................................. 25,000
for the Apoptosis Fund in the Medical School
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York..................................... 928,504
for research in the Institute for Social Research
Aaron M. Strefling, Los Altos, California............................................... 10,000
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics
Target Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota............................................ 30,000
for career planning and placement support
Dorothy  B. Thompson  I ru st..........................................................  10,000
for Classical Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah........................................... 58,850
for research in the School of Public Health
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland.                          30,000
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts
United States Surgical Corporation, Norwalk, Connecticut................................ 50,000
for research in the Medical School
United Way of Muskegon County, Muskegon........................................... 35,000
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center
University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit, Ypsilanti................................. 11,000
for the University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship
George E. Wantz Estate............................................................ 155,523
4,122 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the George E. Wantz Professorship in the History of Medicine in the Medical School
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids..................................................... 125,000
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills.................................. 10,000
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics
Barbara E. Whitman, Larchmont, New York......       I.I.I.I.I.....I.I.I.I.I.I.I.I.I.I.I.I.I.I.I.I 10,000
for the Carolyn-Whitman Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
WPW, III Capital Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida.................................... 20,000
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration
Irma M. Wyman, St. Paul, Minnesota................................................... 10,468
100 shares of Medtronic, Inc., common stock and
90 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for the mrma M. Wyman Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Argent, Ltd., Livonia
equipment and related accessories for the University of Michigan-Flint Chemistry Department
Robert Argenta, Northville
sculptures, figurines, and related items for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Richard W. Bailey, Ann Arbor
books for the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Blue River Tool, Inc., Ann Arbor
a milling machine with tooling for the Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Science
Robert Bosch Corporation, Farmington Hills
equipment for the College of Engineering
John C. Dann, Dexter
seven reference books and assorted manuscripts for the Clements Library
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
equipment for the Department of Chemical Engineering
William G. Earle, Key Biscayne, Florida
books for the Clements Library
Daniel R. Fusfeld, Ann Arbor
a painting for the Museum of Art


235




March Meeting, 2002


Dalphne Gallager, Ann Arbor
pottery and related items for the Museum of Anthropology
Peter R. Gluck, Flint
books for the University of Michigan-Flint Frances Willson Thompson Library
Esther M. Goudsmit, Rochester
antiquities for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
nine workstations with monitors for the College of Engineering
Paul Knafl, Chelsea
a storage trailer and porch for the University of Michigan
Philip P. Mason, Dearborn
printed items for the Clements Library
Mary M. Matthews, Ann Arbor
sheet music, song books, and related items for the Clements Library
New Eagle Software, Ann Arbor
software and support services for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Denis Robinson, Placituc, New Mexico
plates and stoneware jars from the Philippine Islands for the Museum of Anthropology
Mary Romig-deYoung Estate
a viola for the School of Music
Thomas Wing, Columbia, Maryland
manuscripts for the Clements Library
Clarence Wolf, Gladwyne, Pennsylvania
a collection of art work for the Clements Library
Alan S. Young, Ann Arbor
a synchronous audio recorder and related accessories for the Program in Film and Video Studies
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Patricia Andring, Pinckney
Ann Edmunds Avery, Grand Rapids
Scott Baird, Chelsea
Janet B. Bartlett, Purcellville, Virginia
Robert L. Beystrum, Portage
Gordon E. Bigelow, Ann Arbor
Dale B. Black, Ann Arbor
Catherine Claes, Harbor Springs
A. Dadour, Granada Hills, California
Charles DeWitt, Fruit Heights, Utah
Rebecca Mellen Dunkle, Ypsilanti
Brian L. Dunningan, Grass Lake
Winifred Ethier, Harbor Springs
William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor
Rudi P. Linder, Ann Arbor
James A. McLean, Ann Arbor
John G. Pedley, Ann Arbor
Gene Regenstreif, Ann Arbor
Miriam B. Steinberg, Highland Park, Illinois
Betty E. Taylor, Harbor Springs
Marjorie L. Wilner, Beverly Hills
Susan Cee Wineberg, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. Interim Provost Courant and Chancellor Mestas submitted the
following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Clauw, Daniel J., M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2002
Potts, Alex, Ph.D., Professor of History of Art and Chair, Department of History of Art, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002


236




March Meeting, 2002


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005
Wyne, Mudasser F., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSl           RS
AND SELECTED ACADEMi:I C Al)DMINISTIRATTIVE STA FF
Effective on the dates indicated
Gutek, Barbara A., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of Organizational Behavior
and Human Resource Management, without tenure, School of Business Administration, January 1,
2002
Maio, Ronald F., Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, also
appointed Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, without tenure, School of
Public Health, December 1, 2001-November 30, 2003
APPROVAL OF LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINSTRATI            E STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Megginson, Robert E., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2004
Peterson, Christopher M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Psychology, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus extended, September 1-December
31, 2002
Ramaswamy, Sumathi, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Asian
Languages, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2002-May 31, 2005
ESTABLISHI1NG AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Naming Existing Collegiate Profssorship
Stephen P. Timoshenko Collegiate Professorship in Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
March 1, 2002
Establishing Endowed Professorship
Jack Lapides Professorship in Urology, Medical School, March 15, 2002
OTHER TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
ew Appointments to Established Prolessorships
Baines, John R., Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2002-May 31, 2003
Kabashima, Ikuo, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2002
Pierre, Christophe, Stephen P. Timoshenko Collegiate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College
of Engineering, March 1, 2002-February 28, 2007
New Academic Administrative Position
Assistant Dean of Public Services, Law School, April 1, 2002
Other Transactions
Anderson, Eugene W., Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004


237




March Meeting, 2002


Gordon, Michael D., Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
Winfield, Robert A., from Interim Director to Director, University Health Service, March 18, 2002
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Therrien, Barbara A., February 1-July 31, 2002, vice Penny F. Pierce, accepted an interim administrative
position within the department
Managing Director of the Life Sciences Institute. Interim        Provost Courtant
informed the Regents that Elizabeth M. Barry was appointed as the managing director of
the Life Sciences Institute effective April 15, 2002.
Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Courant and Chancellor Mestas submitted the
following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abene, Michael V., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2002-August 31, 2003
Adler, Martha A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
January 1, 2002-April 30, 2005
Arends, Robert C., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
February 1, 2002-January 31, 2003
Arioglu, Elif, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
February 1, 2002-January 31, 2005
Brigido, Monica K., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2002
Cole, Craig E., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2002-March 31, 2003
Debold, Vicky L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-May 31, 2002
Kowalenko, Terry, M.D., Lecturer in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
February 1, 2002-January 31, 2003
Leung, Helios T. C., O.D., Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
January 7, 2002-January 6, 2003
Madi, Mohsen M., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, January 1, 2002-April 30, 2003
Marsik, Frank J., Ph.D., Lecturer in Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Salesa, Damon T., D.Phil., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of American Culture
Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2002-May 31, 2005
Schach, Andrew S., B.Sc., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Shen, Jie, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, January 1, 2002-April 30, 2003
Sparling, Ronald A., M.A., Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-December 31, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Gest, Thomas R., Associate Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, without tenure, also
appointed Lecturer in the Office of Educational Resources and Research, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2002
Kim, Catherine, Lecturer in Internal Medicine also appointed Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2002
Kronick, Steven, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical
School, February 1, 2002-January 31, 2003
Raoof, Ameed, Lecturer in Cell and Developmental Biology also appointed Lecturer in the Office of
Educational Resources and Research, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2002


238




March Meeting, 2002


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2002
Ansbacher, Rudi, Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2002
Castor, C. William, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30,
2002
Ertel, Inta J., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2002
Goldstein, Irwin J., Interim Chair and Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2002
Haessler, Robert W., Associate Professor Emeritus of Operations Management, School of Business
Administration, January 1-April 30, 2002
Heirich, Max A., Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Konnak, John W., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2001-June 30, 2003
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2002
Schwartz, Edward M., Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2002
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED EMERITUS FACULTY
REAPPOINTMENT
Effective on the dates indicated
Palmer, Warren G., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and Associate
Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2001 (previously reported September 1, 2001-April 30,
2002)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Akil, Huda, Gardner C. Quarton Distinguished University Professor of Neurosciences and Professor of
Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, February 1-July 31, 2002
Albin, Roger L., Professor of Neurology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 2002
Aller, Hugh D., Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Alwin, Duane F., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Baker, Wayne E., Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31-2002
Bike, Stacy G., Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Binetti, Vincenzo A., Associate Professor of Italian, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002,
Blair, David C., Jack D. Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of Business Administration
and Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Bole, Giles G., Jr., Dean Emeritus and Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School,
retirement furlough, March 1, 2002-February 28, 2003
Bronstein, Paul M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Brusati, Celeste A., Professor of History of Art and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Burns, Daniel M., Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002


239




March Meeting 2002


Carter, Brian, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Castagnacci, Vincent E., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art
and Design, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Cepuran, Joseph A., Associate Professor of Public Administration, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School
of Education, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Checkoway, Barry N., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor of
Urban and Regional Planning, without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Diaz, Vicente M., Assistant Professor of Asian/Pacific American Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Foran, Michael F., Associate Professor of Accounting and Finance, without tenure, UM-Dearborn
School of Management, personal leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Foran, Nancy J., Associate Professor of Accounting and Finance, without tenure, UM-Dearborn School
of Management, medical leave, February 1-December 1, 2002
Franklin, Barry M., Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Education and Human
Services, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2001
Gingerich, Philip D., Ermine Cowles Case Collegiate Professor of Paleontology, Professor of
Geological Sciences, with tenure, Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, without
tenure, and Professor of Anthropology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Goldenberg, Edie N., Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Guan, Kunliang, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 2002
Gunning, Sandra R., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, Associate
Professor of American Studies, without tenure, and Associate Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave,
September 24-October 22, 2001
Hayes, Kim F., Professor of Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Helvie, Mark A., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
June 1-August 31, 2001
Hymes, Robert W., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Jacobs, Claude F., Associate Professor of Behavioral Sciences, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Johnson, Lemuel A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, September 24, 2001-May 31, 2002
Jones, Charles A., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, extended sick leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Kauffman, Charles W., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Keller-Cohen, Deborah, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Professor of Women' s Studies,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Education, without
tenure, School of Education, extended sick leave, October 9-26, 2001, and sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2002
Kettel, Raymond P., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Kinnear, Thomas C., Eugene Applebaum Professor of Entrepreneurial Studies and Professor of
Marketing, with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31,
2002
Lichter, Paul R., F. Bruce Fralick Professor of Ophthalmology, Chair, and Professor of Ophthalmology
and Visual Sciences, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, December 14, 2001-March 21,
2002
Liu, Lydia, Helmut F. Stern Professor of Chinese Studies, Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures,
with tenure, and Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Lovejoy, William S., Raymond T. J. Perring Family Professor of Business Administration and Professor
of Operations Management, with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002


240




March Meeting, 2002


Maehr, Martin L., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,
2002
Master, Tarannum A., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, personal leave, January 1-31, 2002
Merajver, Sofia D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, January 1-June 30, 2002
Moerman, Daniel E., William E. Stirton Professorship in Anthropology and Professor of Anthropology,
with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2001
Moore, Theodore C., Jr., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-December 31, 2002
Nevins, Thomas A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Owusu, Maxwell K., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Pincus, Leslie B., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Pohl, Joanne M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical leave,
January 1-December 31, 2002
Radine, Lawrence B., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, and Lecturer in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Ruffin, Mack T., Associate Professor of Family Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2001-February 28, 2002
Samoriski, Jan H., Associate Professor of Communications, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Sarath, Edward W., Professor of Music, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2002
Savage, Phillip E., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Scisney-Matlock, Margaret, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Simons, Patricia, Associate Professor of History of Art and Women' s Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Svejnar, Jan, Everett E. Berg Professor of Business Administration and Professor of Business
Economics, Corporate Strategy, and International Business, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, and Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Terrell, Katherine, Professor of Business Economics, Corporate Strategy, and International Business,
with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure,
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Watson, Stanley J., Jr., Theophile Raphael Collegiate Professor of Neurosciences and Professor of
Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-February 28, 2002
Whall, Ann L., Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Yang, Ralph T., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31-2001
Ziff, Robert M., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2002
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Barnett, Jeffrey L., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, April 26,
2002
Bobek, Eileen, M., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2002
Chen, Serena C., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2001
Luke, Barbara J., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, Medical School, February 15,
2002


241




March M~eeting 2002


Weintraub, Breton M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, February 1,
2002
Retired
Coon, Minor J., Victor V. Vaughan Distinguished University Professor and Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, January 31, 2002
Gumucio, Jorge J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, August 31, 2001
Williams, William J., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, December 31, 2001
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for five retiring
faculty members.
Ruth Barnard, R.N., Ph.D., associate professor of nursing, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2001, following 26 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Professor Barnard received her B.S.N. degree from Johns Hopkins University in
1959, her MS. degree from Boston University in 1965, and her Ph.D. degree from New
York University in 1973. From 1971-75, she was director of nursing research at Mount
Sinai Hospital in New York. She joined the University of Michigan School of Nursing as
an associate professor in 1975.
Professor Barnard taught undergraduate and graduate courses and served as chair
for medical surgical nursing and director of the graduate program in medical surgical
nursing until 1988. She also served the School of Nursing as an academic information
specialist. She was a major force, both formally and informally, in the school's
information technology initiative, supporting worldwide web and computer usage, UMTV
evolution, and videotaping of a variety of school activities. Her vision for the school's
moving into the next millennium included using information technology to enhance nursing
education.  Her leadership is evident through production of a video for student
recruitment and development of a proposal for new state-of-the-art equipment. Recently,
Professor Barnard was the clinical coordinator for a major undergraduate capstone
course (N446), providing leadership and support for clinical faculty in this course and
also assuming a major teaching role in her division (acute, critical and long-term care
program).
Within the University of Michigan, Professor Barnard served on a number of
committees and was assistant chief university marshal. She was an active member of the
Michigan Nurses Association, the Midwest Nursing Research Society, and the
Information Technology Advisory Panel of the Midwest Alliance in Nursing. Professor
Barnard is also active in various nursing association committees at the district and state
levels in Michigan. She provided leadership in the development of the Midwest Nursing
Research Society and in the research activities of Sigma Theta Tau, Inc. (STTI).
Professor Barnard is credited with initiating and developing the STTI Inventory of Nurse
Researchers, a widely used document in the profession.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Ruth Barnard associate
professor emerita of nursing.
Minor J. Coon, Ph.D., Victor C. Vaughan Distinguished University Professor of
Biological Chemistry and professor of biological chemistry in the Medical School,
retired from active faculty status on January 31, 2002.
Professor Coon received his B.A. degree from the University of Colorado in 1943
and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Illinois in 1946. From 1947-55, he was a


242




March Meeting, 2002


faculty member at the University of Pennsylvania. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as professor of biological chemistry in 1955.
Professor Coon chaired the Department of Biological Chemistry for 20 years,
beginning in 1970.  In this capacity, he emphasized the importance of teaching,
strengthened the graduate program, and recruited outstanding faculty members. For more
than 30 years his laboratory has been internationally known for its pioneering research on
the mammalian cytochrome P450 enzymes, which are centrally involved in the
metabolism of drugs and other foreign compounds, the biosynthesis of steroid hormones,
and the activation of environmental carcinogens. His discoveries have led to many
honors, including election to the National Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Medicine,
and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He has received the Michigan Scientist
of the Year Award, the Bernard B. Brodie Award in Drug Metabolism of the American
Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics, and the first William C. Rose
Award in Biochemistry of the American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology. He has also received some of the University's highest honors, including the
Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award, the Distinguished Faculty Lectureship Award
in Biomedical Research, the Henry Russel Lectureship, and the Medical Center Alumni
Society's Distinguished Achievement Award. In connection with the Medical School's
recent Sesquicentennial Celebration, a lecture hall was named in his honor.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and scientist for his dedicated
service by naming Minor J. Coon the Victor C. Vaughan Distinguished University
Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry and professor emeritus of biological
chemistry.
Jorge J. Gumucio, M.D., professor of internal medicine, retired from active faculty
status on August 31, 2001, after a most productive career as an educator, researcher, and
clinician.
A native of Chile, Dr. Gumucio completed his B.A. and M.D. degrees, in 1958 and
1962, respectively, at the Catholic University of Chile in Santiago. From 1962-65, he
undertook residency training at the Catholic University of Chile Hospital. From 1965-68,
he was a research assistant, an NIH post-doctoral fellow and then research associate at
the University of Michigan Medical Center. In 1968, Dr. Gumucio returned to the
Catholic University of Chile where he served for two years as physician in charge of the
GI Unit at the Sotero del Rio Hospital and was then appointed assistant professor of
internal medicine. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as an assistant
professor of internal medicine in 1973 and was promoted to associate professor in 1979
and professor in 1991.
Through diligent research efforts investigating liver cell heterogeneity, Dr. Gumucio
received considerable grant funding which supported a well-run laboratory. He is a
recipient of the Jerome W. Conn Award, which recognizes excellence in research among
internal medicine faculty. In addition to being known for his productivity as a researcher,
Dr. Gumucio was a respected educator and clinician. Among GI fellows he was known
as a premier teacher who was sought out for his depth of knowledge and ability to
translate complicated concepts into clear ideas. Intensely committed to academia, Dr.
Gumucio was highly respected as a stringent and articulate defender of the ideals of what
an academic medical center should be.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist and health educator for his
dedicated service by naming Jorge J. Gumucio professor emeritus of internal medicine.


243




March M~eeting 2002


James Arthur Teeri, Ph.D., professor of ecology and evolutionary biology,
director of the Botanical Gardens, and director of the Biological Station, retired from
active faculty status on February 28, 2002, after a most productive career as a teacher,
researcher, and administrator.
A native of New Hampshire, Professor Teeri received his B.S. (1966) and M.S.
(1968) degrees from the University of New Hampshire and his Ph.D. degree (1972) from
Duke University. He served on the faculty of the University of Chicago from 1972-86,
where he rose through the ranks from assistant professor to professor and also was
director of the environmental genetics program from 1975-86, chair of the committee on
evolutionary biology from 1979-85, chair of the Department of Biology from 1984-86,
and associate dean of the college from 1982-85. He joined the faculty of the University
of Michigan in 1987 as professor of biology and director of the Biological Station. From
1992-97, Professor Teeri also served as director of the University of Michigan Project
for the Integrated Study of Global Change. He was appointed director of the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens in 1994 and joined the newly created Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology in 2001.
During Professor Teeri' s tenure as director of the Biological Station, a large number
of grants were obtained to fund facilities improvements and research projects, greatly
expanding its stature as both an outstanding educational field station and a leader in
ecological research. Professor Teeri maintained an active research program and also
coordinated a large number of research teams addressing the response of ecological
communities to changes in global climate. He has been a most effective spokesman for
raising the public's awareness of the ramifications of the greenhouse effect caused by
human activities.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator, scientist, and administrator for
his dedicated service by naming James Arthur Teeri professor emeritus of ecology and
evolutionary biology.
William J. Williams, Ph.D., professor of electrical engineering and computer
science, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2001.
Professor Williams received his B.E.E. degree from The Ohio State University in
1958, his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Iowa in
1961 and 1963, respectively, and his M.S. degree in physiology from the University of
Michigan in 1966. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1965 as an assistant
professor and was promoted to associate professor in 1969 and to professor in 1973.
Professor Williams' research crossed the traditional boundaries between the
scientific, engineering, and biomedical communities. From his earliest years at the
University, he worked to develop an academic and research program in bioelectrical
systems and sciences which had a significant impact on the development of the
bioengineering program in the College of Engineering. He also had close relationships
with the University's neurology and the psychiatry departments. Professor Williams has
more than 180 publications to his credit.
Professor Williams is widely recognized for his seminal contributions to the theory
and practice of time-frequency signal analysis. He has several patents, the most recent
awarded in 2001, all in the area of signal processing. He is internationally recognized
for his contributions in the development and application of signal processing in
biomedical engineering and biology. His methods and algorithms have been used to study
such diverse phenomena as whale sounds, epileptic seizures, gear noise, and machine


244




March Meeting, 2002


tool chatter in manufacturing operations. His awards include the 1938E Distinguished
Service Award (1970), the EECS Research Award (1994), and a College of Engineering
Research Award (1996). He was named a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 2001 for his contributions to time-varying spectral
analysis.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming William J. Williams
professor emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents this
month.
Degrees. Interim President White submitted recommendations for the award of
honorary degrees to the following individuals: Donald Glaser (Doctor of Science),
William H. Gray III (Doctor of Laws), John Rich (Doctor of Humane Letters), and Donna
Shalala (Doctor of Laws).
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report of the Board in
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan for the Year
Ended June 30, 2001
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted Supplemental Information to the Certified
Audited Financial Report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the
University of Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 2001.
State Auditor General Report and Response -- Performance Audit of the University
of Michigan-Dearborn, #33-210-01; State Auditor General Report and Response --
Performance Audit of the University of Michigan-Flint, #33-220-01
Chancellors Mestas and Little pointed out that both reports were as a whole very
complimentary, with constructive comments about minor areas where improvement could
be made.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved acceptance of the State Auditor General Reports and Responses
#33-210-01 and #33-220-01, for the University of Michigan-Dearborn and University of
Michigan-Flint, respectively.
Financing of New Projects and Refinancing of a Portion of the Commercial Paper
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously
adopted a resolution (see Appendix, 257) authorizing the executive vice president and chief
financial officer or the associate vice president for finance or the treasurer to 1) Develop
the terms, and negotiate and execute the legal documentation for the financing with the
assistance of the underwriter and outside legal counsel; 2) Combine General Revenues and
patient care revenues for future debt issuance; 3) Obtain and approve a final proposal for
the bonds, any derivatives, and any liquidity requirements for the University's variable rate
debt; and 4) Reduce the size of the commercial paper program by $50 million.


245




March M~eeting 2002


Campus Communications Infrastructure Replacement/Expansion North Campus to
East Campus Communications Connector at Arbor Lakes
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Campus Communications Infrastructure Replacement/Expansion
North Campus to East Campus Communications Connector at Arbor Lakes project as
described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Cook Legal Research Library Smith Library Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Smith Library Renovation Project as described in the Regents
Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
East Quadrangle Replacement of South Roof, Deck and Rooftop Exhaust Fans
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved a project for replacement of the south roof, deck, and rooftop exhaust fans at East
Quadrangle and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Pierpont Commons Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Pierpont Commons Renovation for bids and awarding a
construction contract, providing the project remains within the budget.
Regent Newman requested that she receive a copy of the University's bidding
procedures.
Naming of Engineering Facility and Addition in Honor of Carl and Esther
Gerstacker
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved identifying the Institute of Science and Technology High Bay
Building Engineering Facility and its addition as the Carl and Esther Gerstacker Building.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Computed
Tomography (CT) Scanner Acquisitions and Site Preparation Projects
It was noted that this project would provide a seventh CT scanner for UTM1HHC and
would upgrade three existing CT scanners. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the UMHHC Computed Tomography
(CT) Scanner Acquisitions and Site Preparation Projects, as described, and authorized
issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, provided that the bids are
within the approved budgets.
Lease Agreement with Chelsea Internal Medicine Corporation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved a lease agreement with Chelsea Internal Medicine Corporation for property
located at 128 Van Buren, Chelsea. Because the owner of the Building, Steven A. Yarows,


246




March Meeting, 2002


is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Health
System and Chelsea Internal Medicine Corporation.
2.   The service to be provided is a lease. The lease for 128 Van Buren, Chelsea, began on
October 15, 2001, for a period of 1 year, 8 months, terminating on June 30, 2003, at
a cost of $9,900 per month.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Steven A. Yarows, a University of
Michigan employee, is the building owner of the space occupied by Chelsea Internal
Medicine Corporation.
Extension of Lease Agreement with First Martin Corporation (520 E. Liberty, Suite
300)
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved extension of a lease agreement with First Martin Corporation for
property located at 520 E. Liberty, Suite 300. Because the president of First Martin
Corporation, William C. Martin, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Office of
Budget and Planning and First Martin Corporation.
2.   The service to be provided is a lease extension. The lease extension for 520 E.
Liberty, Suite 300, will begin on July 1, 2002, for a period of 5 years, terminating on
June 30, 2007, at a cost of $7,478.38 per month.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the president of First Martin Corporation.
Extension of Lease Agreement with First Martin Corporation (2101 Commonwealth,
Suite A)
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved extension of a lease agreement with First Martin Corporation for
property located at 2101 Commonwealth, Suite A. Because the president of First Martin
Corporation, William C. Martin, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Hospitals and Health Centers and First Martin Corporation.
2.   The service to be provided is a lease extension. The lease extension for 2101
Commonwealth, Suite A, will begin on April 1, 2002, for a period of 7 years,
terminating on March 31, 2009, at a cost of $16,166.66 per month.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the president of First Martin Corporation.
Reassignment Agreement with Dr. Victor C. Yang and Dr. Youngro Byun
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a reassignment agreement between the University of Michigan and Dr. Victor C.
Yang and Dr. Youngro Byun. Because Drs. Yang and Byun are both University of Michigan
employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


247




March Meeting, 2002


1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Drs. Yang and Byun.
2.   Contract terms include:
~ Reimbursement to the University for all patent expenses;
* Payment to the University of 15% of any royalties, equity, or other value
received by Drs. Yang and Byun through subsequent marketing and licensing of
the invention;
~ The University retains an irrevocable, royalty-free license to use and practice
the invention internally; and
~ No continuing development of the Invention will take place with the use of
University funds, facilities, or funds administered by the University, unless
appropriate formal University approvals are obtained.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Yang and Byun arise from their involvement in future
commercialization efforts of the invention.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Ohio University
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and
Ohio University involving collaboration with Dr. Gholam-Abbas Nazri at Ohio University.
Because Dr. Nazri also holds an adjunct professorship at the University of Michigan, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Ohio University.
2.   Under the terms of the project, a total subcontract of approximately $84,000 is
anticipated to cover the period March 1, 2002, through February 28, 2003. The
University's standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Nazri has no pecuniary interest in the agreement; his appointment at the
University of Michigan is without compensation.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and ForeSee Results, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and ForeSee Results,
Inc., involving licensing of the trademark of the American Customer Satisfaction Index
(ASCI). Because Dr. Claes Fornell is both an owner of ForeSee Results, Inc. and a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and ForeSee
Results, Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include a non-exclusive grant, a license fee to be paid in annual
installments of $300,000, and a ten-year term that may be terminated early upon
consent by the parties.  The University will retain ownership of the licensed
trademark and may continue to license it (non-exclusively) to others. No use of
University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Fornell arises from his ownership interest in ForeSee
Results, Inc. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue
received by the University from the company.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Quantum Signal LLC
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Quantum Signal LLC for commercialization of the inventions known as "System for


248




March Meeting, 2002


Detecting Reduced Interference Time-Frequency Distribution" (UM File No. 0474) and
"Method and System for Extracting Features in a Pattern Recognition System" (UM File
No. 1307). Because Dr. William J. Williams is both a University of Michigan employee
and a limited partner in Quantum Signal, LLC, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Quantum
Signal, LLC.
2.   Licensing terms include all fields of use except human speaker recognition and
speech verification; exclusive grant; a $25,000 license fee; and royalties of 4% of net
sales, 10% of gross sublicensing revenues, with minimum royalties beginning in
2005.
Specified milestones must be met in order to maintain the rights granted by the
license.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents. No use of University services or
facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is obligated under the
agreement.
3.   Dr. Williams' pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Quantum
Signal. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by
the University from the company.
Reassignment Agreement between the University of Michigan and David Porter
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a reassignment agreement with David Porter for the program,
"Clavis Sinica Program" (UM File No. 1310). Because David Porter is also a University
of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and David Porter.
2.   Under terms of the contract, Dr. Porter will be responsible for paying all expenses to
protect the copyright in the program; Dr. Porter will provide an annual report of all
activities related to the program; the University will maintain a royalty free license to
use the program for research and academic purposes; and the University waives the
15% share of any income received by Dr. Porter.
3.   Dr. Porter' s pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of the technology.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Environmental Research Laboratory
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and the
Great Lakes Environmental Research Laboratory (GLERL), under a grant awarded to the
University of Michigan. Because Dr. Doran Mason, an employee of GLERL who will be
directing the GLERL portion of the project, and Dr. Stephen Brandt, director of GLERL,
both have adjunct appointments at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Environmental Research Laboratory.


249




March Meeting, 2002


2.   Under the terms of the agreement, a total subcontract of $129,680 is anticipated to
cover the period January 1, 2002, through December 31, 2004. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Both Doran Mason's and Stephen Brandt's appointments are unrelated to the work
proposed in the grant.
Regent Newman commented that it is very important that these types of conflict of
interest agreements come before the Board and before the public, and she recognized the
work of the staff who are involved in analyzing and formulating the agreements. Vice
President Ulaby noted that faculty spend hours reviewing each potential agreement.
Regent Newman expressed the sentiment of the Board that they appreciate and value the
amount of effort that goes into developing each agreement.
Proposed Changes to Academic Calendars for Summer Terms 2002, 2003, and 2004
for University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved changes to the academic calendars of the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, as described in the Regents Communication.
Regent Horing left the meeting at this point, at 2:15 p.m.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Financial Update
Interim President White noted that a major presentation on the University of Michigan
Health System (UMHS) would be presented at the April meeting. In preparation for that, he
had requested that Executive Vice President Omenn prepare a brief presentation, focusing
mostly on financial matters for this current meeting, in order to identify issues for further
discussion. The next presentation would also focus on operational and quality matters.
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that Larry Warren, executive director of
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC), and Douglas Strong,
associate vice icpresident for finance and strategy and interim chief financial officer of the
hospitals, were present. He distributed a handout outlining the issues to be discussed.
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that the research, education, and patient care
missions of the University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) are highly integrated. The
patient care activities have to balance three aims: quality, cost containment, and access.
The UMHS generates a total of $2 billion in revenue from the hospitals, professional
fees, Medical School tuition, sponsored research, and M-Care. He displayed a chart of
"Historical Margin Performance" for the HHC from 1996-2001 and noted that in each of
the years, beginning with 1997, total operating revenues have exceeded total operating
expenses. He noted that the figures do not include physician salaries, which are reflected
in the Medical School's financial statements. It was requested that a balance sheet be
included in the April presentation.
Executive Vice President Omenn pointed out that the UMHHC makes substantial
annual equity transfers to UMHS units and made a very significant contribution to the Life
Sciences Institute.


250




Nlarch Mleeting, 2002


He then turned to a chart illustrating "patient activity trends" in areas such as
inpatient admissions, discharges, patient days, surgeries, emergency room visits, and
other outpatient visits. Regent McGowan observed that these figures do not show
whether the growth is occurring in areas that are most profitable or have favorable
reimbursement rates. For the upcoming discussion, she requested that trends be shown in
such areas as cardiac surgery, cancer, and liver transplants, to illustrate what the growth
areas would be if the case mix were different. Executive Vice President Omenn pointed
out that there has been significant growth in newborn services, which are important in
building community support, but that these are low-margin activities. It was decided that
an upcoming discussion would focus on the five or six areas most important to the future.
Executive Vice President Omenn displayed a chart illustrating the gap in revenue
from the amount of reimbursement that would have been received since 1996 under the
reimbursement policies then in effect, compared to what has actually been received, a
difference of almost $200 million.  During the same period, expenditures were
constrained by a total of $224 million compared to what volume-adjusted expenditures
would otherwise have grown to be. That relative expense decrease was achieved almost
entirely (95%) by a combination of net cost reductions (52.3%) and spreading fixed costs
over more volume (42.7%). It was requested that there be a chart illustrating the increase
in full-time equivalent employees as well as the effect of productivity increases and
technology improvements at the next presentation.
The discussion then turned to a comparison of the UMHHC with 13 other institutions
cited in 2001 as "Honor Roll Hospitals" by U.S. News & World Report, with respect to
operating margin, total margin, total cash flow margin, days cash on hand, and debt to
capital. The University is first in the latter three categories, and is sixth in the "operating
margin" category. A discussion followed about the differences between UMHHC and the
institutions that are leading in operating margin. Regent Deitch commented that there is
no reason UMHHC should not have as its goal to be number one in this category as well.
Executive Vice President Omenn described some of the pressures that impact these
figures, such as the necessity for paying competitive salaries and to provide adequate
staffing.  Interim President White suggested that next month's report address the
implications of striving to be number one in the operating margin category.
Executive Vice President Omenn then reviewed FY 2002 operating performance to
date. Four of the five indicators are favorable to budget, with the exception being "total
expenses compared to volume-adjusted budget." Next he discussed "Budget challenges
for the rest of FY 02 and FY 03." These include managing costs, specifically in view of
labor shortages and wage settlements, pharmaceutical advances and patient demand, and
continuing cost reductions. Regarding the issue of labor shortages, it was noted that
elimination of the shortage of nursing staff would save about $5 million, due to the
reduction of overtime.
Regent Newman requested that the next presentation address sources of funding.
Executive Vice President Omenn pointed out that pharmaceutical costs have the
greatest impact on inpatient services, as specific drugs purchased by and administered at
the hospital are costs that have to be absorbed within fixed reimbursement rates. The


251




March Meeting, 2002


costs of outpatient prescriptions, however, are the responsibility of patients and their
insurers, if fee for service; however, those costs are largely absorbed by the Health
System for capitated patients, primarily M-Care and Medicaid.
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that the other budget challenge is increasing
revenues and margins, from the perspective of providing increased capacity for inpatient
and outpatient activity and negotiating from strength with payers.
Discussion then turned to which of the U.S. News & World Report "honor roll"
institutions are part of the university with which they are affiliated, as opposed to having
been "spun off' to become independent institutions or being independent for a long period
of time. Regent Deitch noted that the University had made a conscious decision in the late
1990s to retain ownership of the health system. He commented it is timely for the
Regents to focus on this issue because the margins are so thin and the amount of money
involved is so large. Even though historically, it has been a "fantastic benefit" to the
University to have the linkage with the health system, the risks for the University are
equally great, he noted.
Interim President White stated that in keeping with Regent Deitch's comments, and
due to the fact that the UMHHC budget accounts for more than half of the total University
budget, and because it is so important to maintain the quality of the Health System, he
wanted to proceed in a manner that allows the Regents to feel "comfortable, confident,
and contributing" in their stewardship of the UMHS. For this reason, he said it would
probably be necessary to spend time on Health System issues at nearly every meeting. To
do this, a plan will be developed to guide these discussions covering a number of months
into the future.
The April meeting will consist of a follow-up to the current meeting, with responses
given to the financial questions raised. It will include a spreadsheet with relevant data on
peer medical centers. Future discussions will focus on managing costs; increasing
revenues and margins, including a focus on capacity constraints and how they can be
eased; and quality, including data ranging from patient outcomes to patient satisfaction.
He said he would provide a proposed outline for future discussions to Regent Deitch
before the next meeting.
Regent Deitch observed that the effort made by the Board in 1996, focusing on
issues then facing the Health System, was an important experience in the tenure of
Regents then serving. Subsequently, the Board has had a good deal of confidence in the
management of the health system. Regent Newman commented that the Board has no
cause for concern; the reason for the current focus is that people are much more conscious
now of the cost of health care, and, as part of the Board's fiduciary responsibility, it
needs to keep on top of the situation before it becomes an issue. She also expressed her
concern about another important area of focus, namely not losing sight of customers and
simplifying access to the health system.
Regent Deitch noted that the perception of UMHHC in general is one of superlative
care. But for individual patients and their families, the notion of quality is also affected


252




March Mleeting, 2002


by such details as telephone access, cleanliness, ease of making appointments,
helpfulness of staff, and similar factors.
Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that audited year-end financial
statements for the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers are made public
every year. He also cautioned that mid-year data could reflect month-to-month volatility,
and trends for the entire year should not necessarily be drawn from such data. Interim
President White stated that in response to requests by Regents McGowan and Brandon,
respectively, balance sheet data, cash flow statements, and capital expenditure data
would be included in future discussions. He emphasized that the renewed focus on these
issues is occurring as a result of pride and confidence in the health system, recognition of
its importance to the University of Michigan, and a desire for it to stay that way.
Video Presentation: "And You Can Quote Me On That"
Interim President White commented that he had seen the video, "And You Can Quote
Me On That," about the experience of students with disabilities at the University of
Michigan, some time ago, and had found it arresting due to its candor, the fact that it
consists of students speaking directly to the viewer, and the broader than usual definition of
disability that is encompassed by the film. The video was then presented.
Following the video presentation, there was a discussion with Mr. Jack Bernard,
chair of the University's Council for Disabilities Concerns and member of the steering
committee of "UMINDS," the initiative to develop a disabilities studies program at the
University of Michigan. He is also legally blind. He commented that the University is
generally doing very well in providing services for students with disabilities through the
use of adaptive technology and tremendous growth in other services, enabling more and
more such students are able to take advantage of more aspects of life at the University.
Current issues for students with disabilities include the desire for even more access
and opportunities to become involved in programs such as internships, research, and
study abroad that have previously been unavailable to these students. It was noted that
although insensitivity on the part of faculty and staff is sometimes an issue, it has also
become easier to respond to such instances as they occur. Mr. Bernard introduced Mr.
Sam Goodin, director of the Office of Services for Students with Disabilities, noting that
he has done an outstanding job in improving the situation for these students.
Mr. Bernard commented that broadening the definition of disability to include
mental illness has been a positive step although it does not prevent the issues that emerge
in people with hidden disabilities. It was noted that it is often difficult to know how to
assist a person with a mental disability, so it is important to educate the non-disabled
population on such issues.
Interim President White commented that the first priority of the University's new
Depression Center will be to reduce the stigma of depression. It was also noted that
efforts need to be made to engage the student body in exploring their feelings toward
people with disabilities and to allow people to gain new perspectives by learning from
others' experiences. Vice President Harper observed that a mental health task team has


253




March Meeting, 2002


been formed to explore ways to deal with these issues. She offered to update the Regents
about the array of programs and services currently in place that focus on these issues.
Interim President White expressed the gratitude of the University community to Mr.
Bernard, Mr. Goodin, and colleagues for their efforts in making the environment as
hospitable as possible.
Residence Hall Safety and Security
Interim President White stated that Vice President Harper and Mr. Bill Bess, director
of the Department of Public Safety, would update the Regents about the current situation
with regard to residence hall safety and security. Vice President Harper commented that
although many steps have been taken to ensure safety in the residence halls, there is still
more that can be done. She pointed out the paradox in the fact that a good deal of time is
spent with new students in talking about a sense of community and encouraging them to be
being open and receptive to others, while on the other hand, encouraging them to be careful.
Residence halls are laid out in such a way as to encourage interaction and community
building, which presents challenges for improving security. She also pointed out that most
first-year students come to a communal residence hall living situation from a home
environment where parents are responsible for their physical safety. The expectations of a
community that values and expects openness, ease of transportation, freedom, and
congeniality, while at the same time expecting a high level of personal safety, create a
tension between the two sets of values. The goal has been to convey the understanding
among students that personal safety is both an institutional responsibility and a personal
responsibility.
Mr. Bess enumerated the unlawful activities that have recently occurred in some
residence halls, noting that this is unacceptable behavior and pledging that the
perpetrators would be apprehended. He described measures that have been taken to
confront this situation and to prevent further incidents from occurring, including
increasing patrols, holding town hall safety meetings, and forming a multi-division task
force. He said that incidents have been aggressively investigated, and 21 cases have
been cleared through arrests. The Department of Public Safety, he noted, takes this
situation very seriously, and it will not be tolerated.
Regent Newman commented that residence hall safety is one of her primary
concerns, and she is interested in learning about additional measures that can be
undertaken to protect students. Executive Vice President Kasdin observed that security
measures were immediately increased when the increased illegal activity occurred. He
reiterated the difficulty of maintaining a balance between doing what is required to stop
the activity without destroying the sense of community.
Regent Deitch concurred and stated that he has "a great deal of confidence in the
people who are working on this," and that it is the responsibility of everyone to think
through how best to confront these issues.
Regent McGowan noted that during the summer there are middle school and high
school aged children housed in the residence halls for summer camps, and inquired about


254




March Meeting, 2002


plans for addressing safety and security issues for these children. Vice President Harper
responded that a safety review committee was formed some time ago to look at safety
issues in summer camps. She noted that a different approach is taken in this situation that
involves under-age children during the summer months since the University is expected to
take care of these students and ensure their safety. She said that there is a higher ratio of
adults to students and more of an adult presence in the residence halls for the summer
programs.
Mr. Bill Zeller, director of University Housing, commented that there is close
collaboration with the athletic department in dealing with safety and security concerns
over the summer.  Coaches also spend evenings in the halls.  The safety review
committee is continuing to meet, he noted, and is discussing, among other issues, how the
24-hour controlled access policy will be handled over the summer.
It was noted that this issue will be revisited in the next couple of months.
A five-minute break followed, after which the Regents reconvened to hear Public
Comments at 4:10 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics indicated:
Jeffrey D. Harold, staff member and president of the Association of Black Professionals,
Administrators, Faculty, and Staff, on the University's commitment to affirmative action;
Debra Hamann, alumna and Reach Out! coordinator, Stephanie Steele, student and Reach
Out! coordinator, Robert Galardi, citizen, and David Coleman, student and Reach Out!
site coordinator, on Reach Out! funding; Misty Fewel, student, on her residency
classification status; and Stephen Rassi, student, Rev. John S. Nieman, citizen, Rev. Dr.
Diane Christopherson, United Church of Christ, Rev. Thomas Firestone, St. Mary's
Student Parish, and Rabbi Robert Dobrusin, citizen, on United Way solicitation at the
University.
Interim President White stated that further information would be provided to the
Regents regarding the Reach Out! funding situation and that Ms. Fewel would receive
written correspondence about her residency status by the time of the April board meeting.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:00 p.m. The next
meeting will take place April 18-19, 2002.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


255




March Meetin,20


256




MARCH MEETING, 2002
APPENDIX
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHOIeIO RIZING THE ISSUANCE OF GENERAL REVENUE BONDS AND PIROITDING FOR
OTHER MATTEI     S RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") is a constitutional body
corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as
amended, with general supervision of the University of Michigan (the "'University") and the control and
direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the needs
of students attending the University, the Issuer has authorized the acquisition, construction, installation
and equipping of the capital improvements described in Exhibit A (collectively, the "Project"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued and has outstanding bonlds, notes or other
obligations (collectively, the "Senior Lien Indebtedness") payable from and secured by liens on certain
revenue streams of the University, including Student Fees, Housing System Revenues, Parking System
Revenues, and Medical Service Plan Revenues (sometimes known as Patient Care Revenues); and.
WHEREAS, the Issuer has issued and has outstanding Commercial Paper Notes, Series C (the
"Series C Notes"), which are payable from and secured by a portion of General Revenues, as hereinafter
defined, and it may be appropriate and economic to refinance all or a part of the outstanding principal of
the Series C Notes; and
WHEREAS, the financing of a portion of the Project through the issuance of General Revenue
Bonds will serve proper and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to control and direct
prudently expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it is necessary and desirable
to auLthor ize the issuance of General Revenue Bonds (the "Bonds") in order to provide funds which,
together with other available funds, will be used to pay all or part of the costs of the Project, the costs
of refinancing all or a portion of the Series C Notes, and costs incidental to the issuance of the Bonds
and the refinancing; and
WHEREAS, a trust indenture (the "Trust Indenture") must be entered into by and between the
Issuer and. a trustee (the "Trustee") to be designated by an Authorized Officer (hereinafter defined),
pursuant to which the Bonds will be issued and secured; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to authorize the Authorized Officers to negotiate the sale of the
Bonds with an underwriter or group of underwriters to be selected by an Authorized Officer
(collectively, the "Underwr:iter") and to enter into a bond purchase agreement (the "Bond Purchase
Agreement") and, if deemed appropriate, a Remarketing Agreement (the "Remarketing Agreemrent") or a
Broker Dealer Agreement (the "Broker Dealer Agreement") with the Underwriter setting forth the
terms and conditions upon which the Underwriter will agree to purchase the Bonds and the interest rates
thereof and the purchase price therefor; and
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Bonds at the most opportune time, it is necessary
for the Issuer to authorize the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Associate Vice
President for Financle and the Treasurer (each an "Authorized Officer") or any one of them individually,
to negotiate, execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer, the Trust Indenture, the Bond Purchase
Agreement, the Remarketing Agreement or Broker Dealer Agreement, and other related documents, to
establish the specific terms of the Bonds and to accept the offer of the Underwvriter to purchase the
Bonds, all within the limitations set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has full power under its constitutional authority for supervision of the
University, and control and direction of expenditures from the University fulnds, to acquire, constru ct,
furnish and equip the Project, to pay all or a portion of the costs of the Projeet and the costs of


257




March Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A


refinancing the Series C Notes by issuance of the Bonds, and to pledge General Revenues (as
hereinafter defined) for payment of the Bonds;
NOW, TEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1.     Any Authorized Officer is authorized to determine (i) the specific amount of the cost
of each component of the Project to be financed from the proceeds of the Bonds and (ii) the portion of
the Series C Notes to be refinanced using the proceeds of the Bonds.
2.     The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Bonds in one
or more series to be designated GENERAL REVENUE BONDS, with appropriate series designations, if
any, in the aggregate original principal amount to be established by an Authorized Officer, but not to
exceed the principal amount necessary to produce proceeds of One Hundred Fifty Million Dollars
($150,000,000). The Bonds shall be dated as of the date or dates established by an Authorized Officer,
and shall be issued for the purpose of providing funds which, together with other available funds, will be
used to pay all or a portion of the costs of the Project, all or a portion of the costs of refinancing the
Series C Notes, and the costs related to the issuance of the Bonds and the refinancing, including
capitalized interest, if any for such period as an Authorized Officer may determine appropriate, and bond
insurance premiums, if appropriate. The Bonds shall be serial Bonds or term Bonds, which may be
subject to redemption requirements, or both, as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the
first maturity shall be no earlier than October 1, 2002 and the last maturity shall be no later than
December 31, 2037. The Bonds may bear no interest or may bear interest at stated fixed rates for the
respective maturities thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the highest yield
(computed using the stated coupon and the stated original offering price) for any maturity shall not
exceed 7.0%c per annum, and the Bonds may be issued in whole or in part as capital appreciation bonds,
which for their term or any part thereof bear no interest but appreciate in principal amount over time at
compounded rates (not in excess of 7.0% per annum) to be determined by an Authorized Officer.
Alternatively, all or part of the Bonds may bear interest at a variable rate of interest for all or a portion
of their term, and the variable rate of interest shall not exceed the lesser of the maximum rate permitted
by law or the maximum rate, if any, to be specified in the Trust Indenture. In addition, all or part of the
Bonds may be issued in related series, one of which bears interest at a variable rate and one of which
bears interest at a residual rate determined by subtracting the variable rate from the fixed rate paid by the
Issuer, -but the combined rate on Such Bonds, taking the two related series together, which shall be
determined by an Authorized Officer, shall not exceed 7.0%c per annum. The Bonds may be subject to
redemption or call for purchase prior to maturity at the times and prices and in the manner as shall be
established by an Authorized Officer, but no redemption premium shall exceed 3% of the principal
amount being redeemed. Interest on the Bonds shall be payable at such times as shall be specified by an
Authorized Officer. The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form in denominations, shall be
payable as to principal and interest in the manner, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be
executed and authenticated, all as shall be provided in the Trust Indenture. The Bonds shall be sold to
the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to be established by an
Authorized Officer (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original issue discount, shall not
exceed 0.8% of the principal amount thereof) plus accrued interest, if any, from the dated date of the
Bonds to the date of delivery thereof.
In relation to the debt service on the Bonds any of the Authorized Officers may, at any time, on
behalf of and as the act of the Issuer, enter into an interest rate swap, cap or similar agreement or
agreements (collectively, the "Swap Agreement") with a counter-party or counter-parties to be
selected by the Authorized Officer. Such Swap Agreement shall provide for payments between the
Issuer and the counter-party related to interest on all or a portion of the Bonds, or to indexed or market
established rates. If the Swap Agreement is entered into in connection with the issuance of the Bonds,
the expected effective interest rates on the Bonds, taking into account the effect of the Swap
Agreement, shall be within the limitations set forth herein.
Any or all of the Bonds may be made subject to tender for purchase at the option of the holder
thereof. The obligation of the Issuer to purchase any Bonds subject to tender options may be made
payable from General Revenues, from available cash reserves of the University, subject to such


258




March Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A


limitations as may be specified in the Trust Indenture, or fromL a letter of credit, line of credit, standby
bond purchase agreement or other liquidity device, or one or more of the same, or any combination
thereof (collectively, the "Liquidity Device"), all as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer. The
Liquidity Device, or any part thereof, may also be used to provide liquidity for any other indebtedness or
obligations of the Issuer, including the Series C Notes, any variable rate Senior Lien Indebtedness and
any variable rate Hospital Revenue Bonds. Any reimbursement obligation -for draws under the Liquidity
Device shall be a limited and not a general obligation, of the Issuer, payable from and secured by a
pledge of General Revenues. Any portion of the Liquidity Device which provides liquidity for any
Senior Lien Indebtedness or Hospital Revenue Bonds may, but shall not be required to, be additionally
payable from and secured by a lien on any revenue stream securing the obligations for which the
liquidity is provided. Any Authorized Officer is authorized to execute and deliver, for and on behalf of
the Issuer, any agreements or instruments necessary to obtain, maintain, renew or replace, and provide
for repayments under, any Liquidity Device deemed. by such officer to be required for the purposes of
this Resolution. In the alternative, any or all of the Bonds may be subject to rights on behalf of the
holders thereof to tender their Bonds for pu:rchase by the market through a dutch auction procedure,
subject to a specified maximum interest rate not in excess of the lesser of the maximum rate specified
by law or the rate specified in the Trust Indenture.
3.   TIhe Bonds, and the obligations of the Issuer under the Swap Agreement and the Liquidity Device,
if any (except as specifically provided otherwise in Section 2 hereof), shall be limited and not general
obligations of the Issuer payable from and secured, by a lien on the General Revenues (as shall be
defined in the Trust Indenture in a manner generally consistent with the definition thereof contained in
the Issuance Certificate pursuant to which the Series C Notes were issued, but shall include Medical
Service Plan Revenu-es, which are sometimes known as Patient Care Revenues), subject only to the
senior liens on portions of General Revenues securing the respective series of Senior Lien
Indebtedness ( until each respective series of such Senior Lien Indebtedness is paid or defeased in
accordance with its terms). The lien on General Revenues securing the Bonds shall be on a parity basis
with the lien securing the Series C Notes, except that Medical Service Plan Revenues do not currently
secure the Series C Notes. The Bonds and the obligations of the Issuer under the Swap Agreement and
the Liquidity Device, if any may also be payable from and secured by a lien on moneys, securities or
other investments from time to time on deposit in certain funds created pursuant to the Trust Indenture
or agreements entered into in connection with the Swap Agreement or Liquidity Device.
No recourse shall be had -for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium on
the Bonds, the Swap Agreement or the Liquidity Device, or any claim based thereon against the State of
Michigan, or any officer or agent thereof or of the Issuer or the University, as individuals, either
directly or indirectly, nor, except as specifically provided in the Trust Indenture or the instruments
entered into in connection with the Swap Agreement or the Liquidity Device, if any, against the Issuer,
nor shall the Bonds and interest with respect thereto, or any obligations of the Issuer in connection with
the Swap agreement or Liquidity Device, if any (except as otherwise specifically provided in Section 2
hereof), become a lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the State of
Michigan or the Issuer, other than the General Revenues and the moneys from timne to time on deposit in
all or part of the funds established by the Trust Indenture or the agreements entered into in connection
with the Swap Agreement or Liquidity Device, if any.
Any pledge of General Revenues, and funds specified in the Trust Indenture or agreements
entered into in connection with the Swap Agreement or Liquidity Device, if any, shall be valid and
binding from the date of the issuance and delivery of the Bonds or such agreements, and all moneys or
properties subject thereto which are thereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien of the
pledge without physical delivery or further act. The lien of said pledge shall be valid and binding against
all parties (other than the holders of any outstanding bonds, notes or other obligations secured by a
senior or parity lien on any portion General Revenues) having a claim in tort, contract or otherwise
against the Issuer, irrespective of whether such parties have notice of the lien.
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any obligations of the Issuer under the Swap
Agreement or any agreement with respect to the Liquidity Device may, if determined appropriate by an


259




March Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A


Authorized Officer, be payable and secured on a subordinated basis to the Bonds and other General
Revenue obligations of the Issuer.
4.      The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from
and secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the General Revenues, upon compliance with the
terms and conditions, if any, as shall be set forth in the Trust Indenture.
5.      Any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of
the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to select the Irustee, and to negotiate, execute and deliver
the Trust Indenture. The Trust Indenture may contain such covelants on behalf of the Issuer and terms as
such officers deem  appropriate, including, but not limited to, covenants with respect to the
establishment of General Revenues at levels expressed as a percentage of debt service on the Bonds or
all General Revenue Bonds, with respect to the issuance of additional bonds, notes or other obligations
payable from and secured by General Revenues, and with respect to limitations on or prohibitions
against the issuance of additional Seior Lieni Indebtedness. In addition, any Authorized Officer is
hereby authorized, empowered and diected to negotiate if necessary and expedient for the issuance of
the Bonds, for acquisition of bond. insurance and to execute and deliver an insurance commitment or
other documents or instruments required in connection with such insurance.
6.      Any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of
the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to select the Underwriter and to negotiate, execute and
deliver the Bond Purchase Agreement and Remarketing Agreement or Broker Dealer Agreement, if
necessary, with the Underwriter setting forth the terms of the Bonds and the sale thereof, all within the
limitations set forth herein.
7.      The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or in the event of his
unavailability, the President or any one of the other Authorized Officers, is hereby authorized,
emrpowered and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to
execute the Bonds by placing his or her facsimile or manual signature thereon, and to deliver or cause to
be delivered the Bonds to the Underwriter in exchange for the purchase price thereof as provided in the
Bond Purchase Agreement.
8.     Any Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to solicit ratings on the Bonds from any
national rating service which the Authorized Officer deems appropriate and to cause the preparation of a
Preliminary Official Statement, if necessary, and an Official Statement with respect to the Bonds, and to
execute and deliver the Official Statement. The Underwriter is authorized to circulate and use, in
accordance with applicable law, the Preliminary Official Statement, if any, and the Official Statement in
connection with the offering, marketing and sale of the Bonds.
9       The President, the Authorized Officers, the Secretary or Assistant Secretary, the Vice
President and General Counsel and any associate general counsel, and any other appropriate officer of
the Issuer or the University are hereby authorized to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and
deliver for and on behalf of the Issuer all instruments and documents required by this resolution, the
Trust Indenture, or the Bond Purchase Agreement, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection
with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds, as contemplated hereby. Any reference to an officer
of the Issuer or the University herein shall include any interim or acting officer appointed by the Issuer.
Any action required under the Trust Indenture, Bond Purchase Agreement, Swap Agreement, agreement
entered into in connection with the Liquidity Device or other instrument related to the Bonds may be
taken by and on behalf of the Issuer by any Authorized Officer.
10.    In accordance with the requiremients of Rule 15c2-12 of the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission, the Issuer may be required in connection with the issuance of the Bonds to
enter into a Disclosure Undertaking for the benefit of the holders and beneficial owners of the Bonds.
Any Authorized Officer is authorized to cause to be prepared and to execute and deliver, on behalf of the
Issuer, the Undertaking.
11.    All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict
herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.


260




MVarch Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A


EX:H[IBI1T A
PROJECT
The Project consists of the components set forth below.
* Biomedical Science Research Building and Related Projects
* Forest Avenue Parking Structure
* Hill Auditorium Renewal Project and Related Projects
* Palmer Drive Parking Structure
* Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Building Renovation
* University of Michigan-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Phase III - University Mall
Renovation


261




Ma rch Meeting, 202- ApendixA


262




APRIL MEETING, 2002


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 18, 2002
The Regents convened at 1:30 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were Interim
President White and Regents Deitch, Homing, McGowan, Maynard, and Newman. Also
present were Interim Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President
Kasdin, Vice President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor
Mestas, Executive Vice President Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent White
participated by telephone; Regents Brandon and Taylor were absent.
President's Opening Remarks
Interim President White called the meeting to order. He welcomed Sarah Boot,
newly-elected president of Michigan Student Assembly, to her first Regents' Meeting. He
commented on several items of interest with respect to students, faculty, alumni, and staff,
and noted the deaths of several emeritus faculty members.
Regents' Resolution in Honor of Robert Kasdin
Interim President White called on Regent McGowan, who made the following
comments:
"This is a story which speaks to the values of Robert and his staff of
skilled professionals. Picture, if you will, a meeting of some time past between
Robert and members of his staff and Jack Dixon on the very difficult issues
surrounding the construction of the Life Sciences complex. A meeting which
the participants describe as a partnership meeting.  At the meeting's
conclusion, members of the CFO's staff were heard telling each other, "You
know, the meaning of this project is clear. We are going to work night and day
to make it work." The buildings we now see rising on the Washtenaw Curve
are a magnificent example of how the academic people of this university have
come to look at the men and women of the primary business and finance office
as their partners rather than as the obstacles to their mission. That is good
business; it also affirms that we have in place a group of people, assembled
and led by Robert, who are motivated by the sense that what they are doing is
fundamental to the advancement of the goals of a world-class public university.
That fact, I believe, has been Robert's proudest achievement."
Regent McGowan called Executive Vice President Kasdin to the podium and read
the following resolution:
Regents Resolution
The Regents of the Universit of Michigan commend and express
their gratitude to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Robert Kasdin as he leaves the University April 30 to become Columbia
Universitv's senior executive vice president.


263




April Meeting, 2002


Keenly aware, aesthetically sensitive, and a person of great
integri t, Mr. Kasdin has closely aligned the University's business and
financial operations with its academic mission. In 2000, Moody's
Investors Service upgraded the University's bond rating to Aaa,
recognizing the University's prudent use of debt, successful supply
chain management, aggressive cost containment, and strong financial
performance overall. Today, Michigan is one of o nl three public
universities in the nation to attain Moody's highest rating.
The Utniversity also has earned top-tier investment returns
during his tenure. The endowment, which has grown from $2.1 billion
in 1997 to $3.5 billion, is the fourth largest endowment among public
universities.
Mr. Kasdin has contributed sigEnficantly to the Universit 's
built environment, from overseeing the development of a new campus
master plan and restoration of Burton Tower, Hill Auditorium, and the
Perry and Rackham buildings to high-qualit architecture in new
projects, most notably, the buildings rising on Palmer and Zina Pitcher
drives.  His interest and appreciation bfr art and aesthetics has
attracted some of the world's most outstanding architects to University
projects.  The University has made great gains in environmental
stewardship, including a nationally recognized recycling program. Mr.
Kasdin also played a leadership role in negotiating the sale of
University land to Pfizer, an important step in development of the
state's LifJ Sciences Corridor.
With admiration and deep gratitude for his dedication to the
University's fiscal and physical well-being, the Regents congratulate
and offer their best wishes to Robert Kasdin.
Executive Vice President Kasdin thanked the Regents and observed that "the stakes
in Ann Arbor are incredibly high, and there is a real question whether a public university
can continue to be a great research university and a center of education and learning." He
noted that the University of Michigan is a world class university and needs to remain so.
He thanked the Regents for the faith they have shown in his judgment during his tenure and
expressed his gratitude. A round of applause followed.
Regents Newman, Deitch, and Maynard complimented Executive Vice President
Kasdin on his accomplishments.
Undergraduate Science Instruction Center
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that the Undergraduate Science
Instruction Center is the final segment of the Palmer Drive development. He introduced Mr.
Robert Venturi of Venturi, Scott Brown and Associates and Victor Cardona from
SmithGroup architects to present the programmatic functions and layout of the site plan and
the schematic design. Mr. Venturi described the site plan and the exterior of the structure
from several angles, especially in relation to the site and surrounding buildings. He
commented that the design is in the tradition of the Albert Kahn generic loft buildings found
elsewhere on campus and that the facade is similar to that of the Life Sciences Institute and
the Commons Building except the north elevation would be metal. It was noted that there


264




April Meeting, 2002


are a lot of "incidental seating" areas to encourage interaction among students and faculty
using the building.
Mr. Cardona reviewed schematic designs for each of the four floors that make up the
interior of the building. He pointed out that the laboratory space is flexible and
reconfigurable. It was noted that a new parking deck with 1,000 spaces was under
construction to accommodate the increased parking needs associated with this and other
buildings on the Palmer Drive site.
Regent McGowan asked whether construction of this building would result in fewer
options for other building construction in this area in the future. Executive Vice President
Kasdin responded that nothing being done on this site precludes use of the site of the Plant
Services Building for future construction.
Mr. Venturi commented on what a pleasure it had been to work with Executive Vice
President Kasdin on the University's projects.
Executive Vice President Kasdin thanked Associate Provost Pamela Raymond for
her efforts in helping to identify future programmatic and instructional needs for
undergraduates in conjunction with this building. He also noted that the latest budget
estimate for this project is $61.0 million, as opposed to $59.5 million noted in the
Regents Communication. He commented that during his tenure, he has been working to
enhance financial controls over building projects and as part of this effort all of the
Palmer Drive projects are being tracked as one bundle.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the schematic design for the Undergraduate
Science Instruction Center project as presented, at a budget of $61.0 million. Regent
Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
It was decided that the conflict of interest items would be considered next, followed
by the consent agenda and the remainder of the action agenda, and concluding with the
hospitals and health system discussion.
Purchasing Contract with HealthMedia, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with HealthMedia, Inc. Because Victor
Strecher is both a University of Michigan employee and vice president, chief science
officer, and stockholder in HealthMedia, Inc., this contract falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
University Health Service, and HealthMedia, Inc.
2.  The service to be provided is an online smoking cessation program to be conducted
from April 1, 2002 through March 31, 2002, at a total cost of $5,000.
3.  The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Victor Strecher, a University of
Michigan employee, is vice president and stockholder of HealthMedia, Inc.
Payment for Services of Michigan Interiorscaping Company (UMHS Pastoral Care)
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved payment for services of Michigan Interiorscaping Company to
provide plant care and maintenance for the University of Michigan Health System's


265




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Pastoral Care Department. Because the sole proprietor of Michigan Interiorscaping
Company, Bruce Morrison, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
University Health System Pastoral Care Department, and Michigan Interiorscaping
Company.
2.   The service to be provided is live plants and plant maintenance, from January 1, 2002
through December 31, 2002, at a total cost of $480.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Bruce Morrison, a University of
Michigan employee, is sole proprietor of Michigan Interiorscaping Company.
Payment for Services of Michigan Interiorscaping Company (Center for Chinese
Studies)
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents unanimously
approved payment for services of Michigan Interiorscaping Company to provide plant care
and maintenance for the University of Michigan's Center for Chinese Studies. Because the
sole proprietor of Michigan Interiorscaping Company, Bruce Morrison, is also a University
of Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Center for Chinese Studies, and Michigan Interiorscaping Company.
2.   The service to be provided is live plants and plant maintenance, from August 14, 2001
through June 30, 2002, at a total cost of $660.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Bruce Morrison, a University of
Michigan employee, is sole proprietor of Michigan Interiorscaping Company.
Payment for Services of Michigan Interiorscaping Company (Asian Languages and
Cultures)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved payment for services of Michigan Interiorscaping Company to
provide plant care and maintenance for the University of Michigan's Department of Asian
Languages and Cultures.    Because the sole proprietor of Michigan Interiorscaping
Company, Bruce Morrison, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Asian Languages and Cultures Department, and Michigan Interiorscaping Company.
2.   The service to be provided is live plants and plant maintenance, from July 1, 2001
through June 30, 2002, at a total cost of $600.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Bruce Morrison, a University of
Michigan employee, is sole proprietor of Michigan Interiorscaping Company.
Research   Agreements    between   the  University   of Michigan    and   Nephros
Therapeutics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved research agreements between the University of Michigan and
Nephros Therapeutics, Inc. ("Company"), a small business in which H. David Humes is a
director and partial owner and Deborah Buffington is an employee and partial owner.
Because Dr. Humes and Ms. Buffington are also University of Michigan employees, this


266




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the Agreement are the University of Michigan and Nephros Therapeutics,
Inc. ("Company").
2.   The terms of the proposed agreements conform to University Policy and are as
follows:
Amendment of the previously approved clinical trial agreement to name Robert
Bartlett as the principal investigator and add funds in the amount of $530,036.
An expansion of the clinical trial as a subcontract under the company's grant from the
Michigan Life Sciences Corridor will be directed by Robert Bartlett of the
Department of Surgery over a one-year period at an estimated cost of $116,576.
A project entitled "Tubule Assist Device in Acute Renal Failure —Cost Benefit
Analysis" will be directed by Richard Swartz of the Department of Internal Medicine
over a one-year period at an estimated cost of $49,588. These studies have been
reviewed and approved by the appropriate Human Subjects Institutional Review Board.
3.   Dr. Humes' and Ms. Buffington's pecuniary interest arises from their status as
director and partial owner and employee and partial owner, respectively, of the
Company.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Mechanical
Simulation Corporation
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously
approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and Mechanical
Simulation Corporation ("Company"). Because Dr. Thomas Gillespie is both a University
of Michigan employee and a part owner of the Company, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Mechanical Simulation
Corporation ("Company").
2.   Terms of the agreement conform to University policy. Dr. Gillespie will be the
principal investigator for the project at the University to be conducted over a
six-month period at an estimated total cost of $45,762 including indirect cost at
appropriate industry rates. Dr. Gillespie will not participate in the project in his
capacity as an owner of the Company.
3.   Dr. Gillespie's pecuniary interest arises from his part ownership of the Company.
Research    Agreement between      the   University   of Michigan     and   IntraLase
Corporation
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents unanimously
approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and IntraLase
Corporation ("Company"). Because Ronald Kurtz and Tibor Juhasz are both University of
Michigan employees and co-founders of the Company, this agreement falls under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and IntraLase Corporation.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreements conform to University policy. The period of
performance for the project is one (1) year at a total cost of $95,000. The
University's effort in this project will be directed by Dr. Matthew O'Donnell in the
Department of Bioengineering of the College of Engineering.
3.   Drs. Kurtz and Juhasz's pecuniary interest arises from their status as co-founders of
IntraLase Corporation.


267




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Reassignment Agreement between the University of Michigan and Steven F. Bolling
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a reassignment agreement with Steven F. Boilling, professor in the Cardiac
Surgery Division, for the invention "Mitral Valve Annuloplasty Ring for Molding Left
Ventricle Geometry" (UM File No. 1548). The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Steven F. Bolling.
2.   Reassignment agreement terms include:
Assignment of University's interest in the title to the inventor.
Dr. Bolling will be responsible for paying all patent expenses.
Dr. Bolling will provide an annual report of all activities related to the invention.
The University will maintain a royalty free license to use the invention for research
and academic purposes.
No University funds or facilities will be used to further develop the technology.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
3.   Dr. Bolling's pecuniary interest arises from his future ownership of the technology.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and M-Vision, Inc.
("M-Vision")
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents unanimously
approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and M-Vision, Inc.
("M-Vision").     Because the sole owner and officer of the corporation, Dr. Shridar
Lakshmanan, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and M-Vision, Inc.
("M-Vision")
2.   Under terms of the agreement, the project will provide support for the graduate
student research assistant in the amount of $19,200. The total award is $50,000 and
the period of performance will be twelve (12) months.
3.   Professor Lakshmanan will participate in the project as an employee of M-Vision,
Inc. He will devote no effort to this project on behalf of the University.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Thromgen, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents unanimously
approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and Thromgen, Inc.
Because the founders of Thromgen, Inc., Dr. Alvin H. Schmaier and Dr. Ahmed A.K.
Hasan, are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Thromgen, Inc.
2.   Licensing terms include:
Grant: Exclusive, world-wide license, including the right to sublicense, to make, have
made, import, use market, offer for sale and sell, products incorporating the
technology. Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents, or until the company
ceases operations, whichever occurs first.


268




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Maintenance fees: The University will receive gross sublicensing revenues of 35%
in the first year, 30% in the second year, 25% in the third year, and 20% in the years
thereafter.
Patent costs: All current and future patent costs will be paid by Thromgen, Inc.
Equity: The University will receive an equity position in the company. Upon
Thromgen, Inc.'s receipt of $3 million in equity financing, the University will receive
common stock equal to 7% of the total outstanding shares of Thromgen, Inc.
Thromgen, Inc., will assume diligence requirements for developing and
commercializing the Michigan Intellectual Property.
Thromgen, Inc., will enter into a sponsored research agreement with the University
relating to the technology at no less than $800,000 over a period of four years
beginning on 01/01/01.
Thromgen, Inc., will agree to indemnification and other reasonable and customary
terms in a license agreement, all in conformity with University policy.
Royalties: The University will receive payment of a running royalty on net sales of
3.5% of Thromgen, Inc., and affiliates.
Performance Criteria: The University will receive milestone payments of: $25,000
upon completion of Phase II Clinical Trials; $50,000 upon completion of Phase III
Clinical Trials; $250,000 upon receipt of FDA approval; $250,000 upon first
commercial sale.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees is obligated under this license agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Schmaier and Hasan arise from their ownership in
Thromgen, Inc. Both have waived any personal participation in the sharing of
revenues received by the University from the company.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the March
14, 2002 meeting.
Reports. Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted reports of Investment, Plant
Extension, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action, and the Regents' Report on
Non-Competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources, December 15,
2001-March 15, 2002.
Biomedical Sciences Research Building. Executive Vice President Kasdin noted
some corrections to previously presented communications regarding the Biomedical
Sciences Research Building (BSRB). In September 2001, the preliminary budget for the
BSRB was estimated to be $220 million, and it was noted that inflation was not being
taken into account because predicting inflation over a sustained period was not practical.
In December 2001, the BSRB project was submitted for final approval at the $220
million budget, with the wording indicating that this $220 million would be "allowing for
inflation." The communication should have stated that the budget would be $220 million
not allowing for inflation. He apologized for the error.
Palmrer Drive Parking Struccture/l~PUn dergradu ate Science Instruction Center.
Executive Vice President Kasdin further pointed out some changes to the Plant Extension
Report. The Palmer Drive Parking Structure, the budget for which is currently listed as
$24,000,000, will be increased by $3,000,000; and the Undergraduate Science Instruction
Center (foundation) will be increased by about $1.5 million. These changes are a result
of the addition of a floor to the building and the decision to build and then defer
construction of the Walgreen Drama Center.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.


269




April Meeting, 2002


Research Report.    Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for March 1 - March 31, 2002. He commented that research awards to date
are $225 million higher than they were the same time last year, a 53% increase.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn noted
that the Medical School commencement is scheduled for June 7, 2002, a tentative
agreement had been reached on a contract with the House Officers Association, and the
Hospitals and Health System had received one of three national awards given by the
organization Hospitals for a Healthy Environment.
Divisioan of Student Afairs. Vice President Harper thanked the Regents, president,
and executive officers for their efforts during the past year to be available to students,
enriching their experience at the University.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little commented that the Dearborn
Campus has begun the process for updating the campus master plan, which was last
updated in 1991. He also noted that the campus has engaged a consultant to assist in
conducting a study of the feasibility of providing on-campus housing. Finally, he
observed that the campus will be conducting a master historic preservation plan for the
Henry Ford Estate-Fair Lane, with the assistance of Quinn Evans Associates.
University of Michigan-Flint Chancellor Mestas called attention to several gifts
that had been received from the C.S. Mott Foundation for the William S. White Building.
These gifts will provide for an Urban Health Awareness Center and an Early Childhood
Development Center. Other gifts from this foundation include funding for an analysis of
regional disparities in the Flint-Genesee County area. He commented that the Flint
Campus and community are very grateful to the C.S. Mott Foundation and its chair,
William S. White, for their support of the University.
MSA Report. Vice President Harper introduced newly-elected MSA president
Sarah Boot. She noted that Sarah is in her junior year and has been on the dean's list
every semester but one.
Ms. Boot thanked everyone for "fostering a great working relationship between
MSA and the administration," and said she looked forward to continuing that relationship.
She outlined some of MSA's plans for the upcoming year. Among these are improving
transportation, including to and from the airport; advocating for minority issues; and
establishing a student group outreach program to ensure that MSA is aware of student
concerns and receptive to input from the student body.
Voluntary Support    Interim Vice President Wilbanks submitted the Report of
Voluntary Support for March 2002.
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, Inc., Washington, DC
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute.................$ 437,500
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  11,687
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 207,776
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, Rockville, Maryland
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Pharmacy......................... 30,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  18,750
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School and the School of Public Health.................... 37,500


270




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of
Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Endowed Research Fund in the Medical School.... 20,000
Thomas K. Andison, Marysville
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 15,000
Anonymous Donor
5,000 shares General Electric Company common stock
for support in  the M edical School...............................................  194,950
Aronoff Foundation, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  14,583
ArvinMeritor Fund, Troy
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 20,000
Frank E. Barnard Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 10,000
David Barsky, Wyandotte
1,500 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the J. M. Laberge Memorial Fund in the Medical School.......................... 45,405
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the  University  M usical Society...............................................  15,000
Wilber M. Brucker, Jr., Grosse Pointe
575 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation and
395 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for the Wilber and Doris Brucker, Jr., Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law  School................................... 49,939
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 65,500
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................... 50,000
Wai T. and Glenda Gill Chang Trust
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000
Morton H. Collins, West Bloomfield
1,250 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for the Marilyn Collins Research Fund in the Medical School......................... 49,150
Ralph Colton Estate
for the Post-Graduate Colton Leadership Scholarship Fund........................ 1,000,000
Compaq, Houston, Texas
for support in  the Law   School..................................................  500,000
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor
for the Alumnae Council Scholarship.............................................  10,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
471 shares of Dean Foods Company common stock
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr. Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
for the Ralph G. Conger Papyrology Endowment in the University Library,
for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship, and
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  32,946
Consumers Energy Foundation, Jackson
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000
Robert D. Coven, New York, New York
for the Jean Coven Endowed Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts...........................................................20,000
Alexander S. Crawford, Ann Arbor
1,300 shares of Erie Indemnity Company common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................51,552
CVS Corporation, Woonsocket, Rhode Island
for the C. S. M ott Children's Hospital............................................  10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 75,493
Casilda Daly, Vero Beach, Florida
2,777 shares of Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock
for the KEC Building Fund in the Medical School................................. 251,138
Loren S. Daniels Trust
for the Loren Daniels Dental Student Scholarship and other support in
the  School of D entistry......................................................... 10,000
Harold N. and Ann S. Davis Fund of the National Philanthropic Trust, Jenkin Town, Pennsylvania
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  10,000


271




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the Czarnecki Education Endowment and other support at
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................. 25,000
John H. DeYoung Estate
for support in the College of Engineering, in memory of Isaac DeYoung................ 25,000
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 20,000
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 22,000
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  11,400
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Institute for Social Research..................................... 45,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the College of Engineering and
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................... 130,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 45,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  31,615
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Music............................................... 13,500
Hubert W. Gouldthorpe, Naples, Florida
for the Hubert W. Gouldthorpe Endowment in the College of Engineering.............. 25,000
Robert C. and Janice C. Graham Charitable Foundation of the Ayco Charitable Foundation
for the Graham Endowment in Manufacturing in the College of Engineering............. 10,000
Anne Vance Hatcher Trust
for the Harlan and Anne Hatcher Library Endowment............................... 176,353
Holcim (US), Inc., Dundee
for the Holnam Professorship in the Schools of Business Administration and
Natural Resources and Environment............................................. 500,000
Ismail R. Hoyi, Troy
for the Kathleen Ann Torphy Hoyi Memorial Scholarship in the School of Public Health.. 25,000
IBM Corporation, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for employee  m atching  gifts...................................................  112,570
James R. Irwim, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society...............................................  19,850
Aram Janigian Estate
for Armenian Studies support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................. 91,214
James C. Jeas Estate
for the James C. Jeas Fellowship in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and  Urban  Planning................................................. 58,215
Kimberly Kenne, Amerherst, New Hampshire
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, in memory of Joyce E. Kenne.. 20,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the  University  H ospitals..................................................... 29,704
Norman J. Leven, La Quinta, California
for the Marilyn and Norman Leven Scholarship in the School of Business Administration. 10,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 100,250
Ann and Robert Lurie Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of SocialW ork......................................... 280,556
Josiah Macy, Jr., Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Nursing............................................ 131,840
Richard and Jane Manoogian Foundation, Dearborn
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................. 23,250
Henry L. Mason Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................... 35,000
McMullen Realty Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the  University  M usical Society...............................................  15,000
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,060
Elena Mouzakes-Siler Estate
for the Elena Mouzakes-Siler and John Siler Memorial Scholarship and
the Constantine and Alexandra Mouzakes Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music. 900,000


272




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Karin M. Muraszko, Ann Arbor
for the Heal the Children Fund in the Medical School.............................. 21,000
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School...............................................  11,250
Edward M. Nagel Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Edward M. Nagel Scholarship in the Law School............................. 40,000
National Ataxia Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  15,000
Aline Underhill Orten Foundation, Inc., Warren
for the Aline Underhill Orten Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women..... 10,000
Perry Capital, LLC, New York, New York
for support of the Law  School..................................................  10,000
Pharmacia and Upjohn, Inc., Kalamazoo
for the M. Eng Pharmaceutical Engineering Program in the College of Engineering...... 15,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................  12,090
William F. Pickard, Detroit
for the building fund in the School of Social W ork.................................. 10,000
Murray and Ina Pitt Charitable Trust
for patient services support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................... 20,000
Players That Care, Henderson, Nevada
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................  60,000
Thomas S. Porter Trust
for the Thomas Porter and Kathleen Crispell Endowment and other support in
the School of Business Administration and
for the University  M usical Society..............................................  100,850
ProQuest, Ann Arbor
for the Distinguished Dissertation Award Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies and for employee matching gifts......................... 10,450
Edward F. Redies Foundation, Inc., Saline
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
Mary Ronig-de Young Estate
for the Mary R. Romig-deYoung Loan Fund in the School of Music................. 1,128,949
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Jack Roth Ice Hockey Scholarship and other support in
the  Departm ent of Athletics.................................................... 100,000
Sage Foundation, Brighton
for support  in   the  Law  School...................................................  10,000
Wayne E. Shawaker Estate
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,000
Jeffrey L. Silver, Lake Forest, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
John F. Smith, Jr., Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Darryl L. Snider, West Yellowstone, Montana
300 shares of Viacom, Inc., common stock
for the Darryl and Ginny Snider Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..... 15,033
Times Mirror Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  13,400
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Detroit
for support in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute............................... 333,334
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  31,125
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 30,000
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
for the Distinguished Professor of Oncology Endowment in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center..............................................  140,500
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hosptial Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Joan Elizabeth Volz Estate
for the Joan Elizabeth Volz Scholarship in the School of Music....................... 50,909
Washtenaw United Way, Ann Arbor
for the Ice Hockey Seat Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for the North  Campus Nursing Clinic............................................. 96,468
Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
700 shares of PepsiAmericas, Inc., common stock


273




April Meeting, 2002


for the Frank T. and Barbara Westover Endowed Scholarship and
the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration................. 10,049
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  70,242
Ronald J. Woods Charitable Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  10,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for support in the College of Engineering....................................  10,000
William A. and Shirley P. Yolles Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the William A. and Shirley P. Yolles Graduate Fund in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................................. 10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Bechtel Hanford, Inc., Richland, Washington
four detectors systems for the College of Engineering
Richard E. Darnell, Ann Arbor
153 books for the University of Michigan-Flint, Frances Willson Thompson Library
Eugene N. Feingold, Ann Arbor
a collection of publications for the University Library
First Martin Corporation, Ann Arbor
office furniture and related accessories for the Department of Athletics
Peter B. Frantz, Essexville
inscribed limestone block for the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Martin Gold, Dexter
649 books for the University Library
Jane E. Lange, Wilmette, Illinois
a rare printed traveler guide for the Clements Library
Lear Corporation, Dearborn
a programmable vehicle model for the College of Engineering
David Munck, Dearborn Heights
five 1930s cast iron radiators for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Powerhouse
Northwest Airlines, Detroit
air travel for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Wolverine Vending, Ada
20 cases of chewing gum for the Department of Athletics
John W. Wright, Ann Arbor
books and journal issues for the University Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
William R. H. Alexander, Rochester, New York
G. Fredric Bolling, Dearborn
Mark R. DeCamp, Ann Arbor
Femrando Felin, Ann Arbor
Sally Fleming, Naples, Florida
Henry E. Fradkin, Dearborn
Emery E. George, Trenton, New Jersey
William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor
Sarah M. Harvey, Kent, Ohio
Frances Jenkins Holter, Ann Arbor
Greg Keys, Royal Oak
Jean L. Loup, Ann Arbor
Eric Melotik, Dearborn
Clay Ramseyer, Garden City
Janet E. Richards, Ann Arbor
Julie A. Washington, Ann Arbor
Patricia B. Yocum, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions. Interim Provost Courant submitted personnel actions. He noted
that Pamela Raymond would be completing her appointment as associate provost for
academic and faculty affairs and that Valerie Castle, M.D., was being recommended as
Professor Raymond's replacement and Professor Janet Weiss would be assuming some of
his own responsibilities as associate provost.


274




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Interim President White called attention to the appointment of Timothy Slottow as
interim chief financial officer, noting that he would be replacing Executive Vice President
Kasdin at Regents' Meetings.
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented on the appointment of Gregory
Tewksbury as interim treasurer.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PR(C)MOTIONS
FOR  REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Doherty, Gerard M., M.D., Professor of Surgery and Norman Thompson, M.D., Professor of Surgery,
Medical School, April 19, 2002-April 18, 2007
Gracely, Richard H., Ph.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Neurology,
without tenure, Medical School, April 19, 2002
Padmanabhan, Vasantha, Ph.D., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
May 1, 2002
Silverman, Raymond A., Ph.D., Professor of History of Art and Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Williams, David A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Associate Professor of
Psychiatry, Medical School, and Associate Professor of Psychology, College of literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 19, 2002
REAPPOINT1ENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIF', STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Borders, James M., Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of Music, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Burns, Peggy, Assistant Dean for Communications and Marketing, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Harris, Amy S., Interim Director, Exhibit Museum, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Washington, Daniel A., Assistant Dean for Minority Services, School of Music, June 1, 2002-May 31,
2005
Whitman, Marina V. N., Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, September 1, 2002-September 1, 2007
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
DeYoung, Glenn W., Jr., Professor of Dance, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Dance,
School of Music, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2007
Ekotto, Frieda, Associate Professor of Romance Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2002
Ford, Richard I., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, Professor of Botany, without tenure, and
Curator, Museum of Anthropology, also appointed Director, Museum of Anthropology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005
Furnas, George W., Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, and Professor of
Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2002-August 31, 2009


275




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Ghosh, Amit K., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Professor
of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, April 1, 2002-May 31, 2007
Kalbfleisch, John D., Chair and Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, also
appointed Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005
McCracken, Peggy S., Associate Professor of French, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor
of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002
Matthews, Rowena G., G. Robert Greenberg Distinguished University Professor of Biological Chemistry
and Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed Professor of
Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-May 31,
2009
Schoeni, Robert F., Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, also appointed Associate Professor of
Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, May 1, 2002
Shipps, Stephen B., Professor of Music (Violin), with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs, School of Music, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2007
Vlahopoulos, Nickolas, Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
also appointed Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2007
Woodard, Ronald W., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, with tenure, College of
Pharmacy, also appointed Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2009
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
de Feranti, Hugh B. Z., Assistant Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Musicology, School of Music,
scholarly activity leave extended, September 1-December 31, 2002
Nori, Franco M., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave extended, January 1-December 31, 2003
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Appoitents to stabishedproessorslips
Bloom, David A., Jack Lapides Professor of Urology, Medical School, May 1, 2002
de Boer, Dick E. H., the Netherlands Visiting Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2002
Carey, Thomas E., Donald A. Kerr Endowed Collegiate Professor, School of Dentistry, April 1, 2002,
five-year term
Cohen, David K., Walter H. Annenberg Professor of Education Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005
Duenyas, Izak, John Psarouthakis Research Professor of Manufacturing Management, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2004
Ghannam, Jeffrey, Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002
Krebsbach, Paul H., Donald A. Kerr Professor of Oral Pathology, School of Dentistry,
April 1, 2002-March 31, 2007
McCauley, Laurie K., William K. and Mary Anne Najjar Professor of Periodontics, School of Dentistry,
April 1, 2002-March 31, 2007
Stohler, Christian S., Dr. Roy H. Roberts Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
April 1, 2002-March, 31, 2007
Yaffee, Steven L., Theodore Roosevelt Professor of Ecosystem Management, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, May 1, 2002-May 31, 2007
ea pointments to Established ro__sorsis
Dumas, Rhetaugh Graves, Lucille Cole Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, July 1-December 31,
2001
Roush, William R., Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2007


276




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Wu, Chien-Fu Jeff, Harry Clyde Carver Collegiate Professor of Statistics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2007
Other Transactions
Castle, Valerie P., Associate Provost for Academic and Faculty Affairs, Office of the Provost and
Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, July 1,2002
Hage, Gloria, Associate Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel,
April 15, 2002
Precht, Robert E., Assistant Dean of Public Service, Law School, April 1, 2002-March 31, 2005
Reilly, Raymond R., Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, April 1, 2002-March 31, 2007
Sharphorn, Daniel H., Associate Vice President and General Counsel, Office of the General Counsel,
April 15, 2002
Siefert, Kristine A., Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs, School of Social Work,
January 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Slottow, Timothy P., Interim Chief Financial Officer, May 1, 2002
Tewksbury, Gregory J., Interim Treasurer and Director of Financial Analysis, Office of the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Business and Finance, April 19, 2002
Tolman, Richard M., Associate Dean for Educational Programs, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005
Ulrich, David O., Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, April 1, 2002-March 31, 2007
Weiss, Janet A., Associate Provost for Academic Affairs, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice
President for Academic Affairs, May 15, 2002-June 30, 2005
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Efjfctive on the dates indicated
College o Engineering Executive Committee
Kabamba, Pierre T., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2006, vice Robert F. Beck, term expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Ford, Geraldine Bledsoe, alumna representative, reappointed, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Courant submitted personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Efjfctive on the dates indicated
Evans, Evelyn M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-May 31, 2002
Gianchandani, Roma, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
February 1, 2002-January 31, 2005
Pynnonen, Melissa A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
April 1, 2002-March 31, 2005
Soengas, Maria S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dermatology, Medical School,
January 1, 2002-December 31, 2003
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPO0INTMENT OF RE3GULAR INSTR-UCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Kowalenko, Terry, M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
February 1, 2002-January 31, 2003 (previously reported as Lecturer in Emergency Medicine)


277




April Meeting, 2002


ADRMINISTRATIVT,LY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Desmond, Jeffrey, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical
School, February 1, 2002-January 31, 2003
Radev, Dragomir R., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information, and Assistant
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering, also
appointed
Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2006
Ulsoy, A. Galip, from William Clay Ford Professor of Manufacturing and Chair and Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, to William Clay Ford Professor of Manufacturing and
Professor of Mechanical engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, January 1, 2002
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Efjfctive on the dates indicated
Bassett, David R., Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 2002-July 31, 2003
Shappirio, David, Professor Emeritus of Biological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 2002-April 30, 2002
Soloman, William R., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2001-September 30, 2002
Zweifler, Andrew J., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30,
2003
ADMINISTRATIVELY APP'3ROVED
LEAVES )F ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alexander, Lois L., Chair and Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Batra, Rajeev, Sebastian S. Kresge Professor of Marketing and Professor of Marketing, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Caron, David, Associate Professor of French, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Dunlop, Charles E. M., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Herrero-Olaizola, Alejandro, Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Kachhal, Swatantra K., Chair, Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering and Professor of
Industrial and Systems Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and
Computer Science, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Kaufman, Martin M., Chair and Associate Professor of Earth and Resource Science, with tenure,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Lawand, Jamile T., Associate Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Maple, Frank F., Jr., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, retirement
furlough, January 1, 2002-May 31, 2003
Miller, John W., Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2001
Modigliani, Andre, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, extended sick leave, January 26-July 28, 2002
Nadasen, Arunajallam, Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2002
Nas, Tevfik F., Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Economics, UM-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002


278




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


Robertson, Theodosia S., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Simkani, Mehrdad, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Taylor, B. Alan, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2001
Telesnitsky, Alice, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 2002
Willis, Robert J., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, March 1-April 30, 2002
Zeff, Jacqueline L., Professor of English, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE -GRANTED TO REGUSLAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFFI
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen, James W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2002 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 2002).
TElRMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Johnson, Lemuel A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, March 9, 2002
Resigned
Connelly, Matthew J., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, May 31, 2002
Franklin, Glen A., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, March 31, 2002
Jamieson, Sarah C., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, February 27,
2002
Jeganathan, P., Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2002
Kuru, Tunay, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 31, 2001
Murray, Kendalyn J., Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine, Medical School, March 1, 2002
Sahijdak, Walter M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, March 17,
2002
Senders, Stefan J., Lecturer III in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2002
Stack, Austin G., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 3, 2001
Retired
Bernard, Ruth M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, December 31, 2001
Coffin, Edna A., Professor of Modern Hebrew, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May, 31, 2002
Deskins, Donald R., Jr., Professor of Urban Geography and Sociology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2002
Howes, Alan B., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2002
Kurachi, Kotoku, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, Medical School, March 31, 2002
Lax, Jerold D. E., Associate Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, May 31, 2002
McIntosh, James H., Professor of English Language and Literature and American Culture, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2002
McSparran, Katherine M., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2002
Peacor, Donald R., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2002
Pedley, John G., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2002


279




April Meeting, 2002


Port, Friedrich K., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, February 28, 2002
Ross, David O., Jr., Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2002
Singer, J. David, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2002
Weiss, Hermann F., Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2002
Young, Ernest P., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2002
Term CoiB leted
Forrester, Kathleen A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2001
Takata, Azumi A., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2002
Retireent Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for four retiring
faculty members.
Holde H. Borcherts, senior associate librarian, retired from active faculty status on
February 28, 2002, after nearly 32 years of distinguished service.
A native of Germany, Ms. Borcherts received her A.B. degree in 1961, her A.M.
degree in 1968, and her A.M.L.S. degree in 1970, all from the University of Michigan.
She joined the University Library staff as a librarian in 1970, and was promoted to
assistant librarian in 1972, associate librarian in 1974, and senior associate librarian in
1980. She served as a subject cataloguer from 1970-1973 and as a serials cataloguer
from 1973-1976. In 1976, Ms. Borcherts joined the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Reference Department. In this role, from 1976 to 2002, she has had a distinguished
career as the Germanic Studies Librarian.
Ms. Borcherts has been described by the many faculty colleagues with whom she
has worked over the years as an exceptionally gifted librarian who used her vast
knowledge of German language, history, literature, and culture, along with her
extraordinary knowledge of German book production, to build a comprehensive and
outstanding research collection in Germanic studies and Scandinavian studies at the
University of Michigan. Her untiring efforts were instrumental in helping scholars,
graduate students, and undergraduates find and use scholarly resources to complete their
research successfully.
In 1987 Ms. Borcherts used her extensive knowledge of the University Library and
the University of Michigan campus to initiate a highly regarded service providing
in-depth research assistance to University administrators. The breadth and depth of her
knowledge of scholarly research methods and resources have made her an invaluable
resource to her colleagues in the library and across campus. Ms. Borcherts will be
deeply missed for her intelligence, passion for scholarship, and generosity of spirit, and
her contributions will benefit the University of Michigan for many years to come.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian and colleague by naming Holde
H. Borcherts senior associate librarian emerita.
Rhetaugh G. Dumas, Ph.D., Lucille Cole Professor of Nursing, professor of
nursing, dean emerita in the School of Nursing, and vice provost emerita, retired from
active faculty status on December, 2001, after 20 years of service to the University of
Michigan.


280




April Meeting, 2002


Professor Dumas obtained her B.S.N. degree from the Division of Nursing at
Dillard University in 1951, her M.S. degree from Yale University in 1961, and her Ph.D.
degree from Union Graduate School #1 (Antioch College Campus) in 1975. From
1957-61, she was an instructor at Dillard University. In 1962 she joined the faculty of
Yale University, where she rose through the ranks to associate professor and chair of
psychiatric nursing in the School of Nursing. From 1972-81, she held several leadership
positions at the National Institute of Mental Health in Rockville, Maryland. She joined
the University of Michigan faculty in 1981 as professor of nursing and dean of the School
of Nursing. She remained dean until 1994, when she was named vice provost for health
affairs and the Lucille Cole Professor of Nursing.
As dean of the School of Nursing, Professor Dumas was an ardent advocate of
excellence in nursing research and scholarship as a means of advancing the discipline of
nursing. She provided a powerful vision of nursing and demonstrated considerable
personal and professional influence in many spheres.  A renowned national and
international scholar in the area of psychiatric nursing, Professor Dumas has conducted
extensive externally-funded research on clinical experiences in nursing practice and has
authored many journal articles and book chapters. She has served on a number of national
boards and committees, and for the past several years has served on the President's
National Bioethics Advisory Commission.
Professor Dumas has received honorary doctoral degrees from Yale University,
Simmons College, the University of Cincinnati, Dillard University, and the University of
San Diego. She was the first woman,                to serve as deputy director of
the National Institute of Mental Health, and she was the first African American woman to
serve as dean at the University of Michigan. She was one of 36 distinguished nurses who
were Charter Fellows of the American Academy of Nursing when it was established in
1973, and she served as the academy's president from 1987-89.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Rhetaugh G. Dumas Lucille
Cole Professor Emerita of Nursing and professor emerita of nursing.
Kotoku Kurachi, Ph.D., professor of human genetics, retired from active faculty
status on March 31, 2002, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
Professor Kurachi received his B.S. (1965), M.S. (1967), and Ph.D. (1970) degrees
from Kyushu University in Fukuoka, Japan. Following postdoctoral training in Japan and
at the University of Washington, he served as a faculty member at the University of
Washington from 1978-86. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as
associate professor of human genetics in 1986 and was promoted to professor in 1990.
He has been on leave of absence since April 2001 to serve as founding director of the
Gene Discovery Research Center of the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science
and Technology in Tsukuba, Japan.
Professor Kurachi has been a highly productive, internationally respected, and
well-funded investigator, who has made major contributions to our understanding of
blood coagulation and its regulation. At the University of Michigan, his major focus has
been on understanding the regulation of factor IX, a critical blood coagulation factor
whose deficiency is the cause of hemophilia B. Professor Kurachi characterized the
regulatory elements of the IX gene, and demonstrated the basis for the developmental
regulations of this gene and its abnormalities in Factor IX Leyden. His laboratory then
focused on improved approaches to gene therapy of hemophilia B. Most recently, he has
published an important study on the genetic mechanisms underlying age-related changes in


281




April Meeting, 2002


human blood coagulation factors. Alterations in these factors with aging may play a
major role in the increasing risk of heart disease and stroke in older individuals.
Professor Kurachi is the author of more than 130 publications and holds 5 U.S.
patents. He received the International Prize of the French Association for Hemophiliacs
and an Excellence in Research Award from the Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan.
Professor Kurachi taught several graduate courses and recently established a research
ethics course in the cell and molecular biology program.
The Regents now salute this researcher and faculty member by naming Kotoku
Kurachi professor emeritus of human genetics.
J. David Singer, Ph.D., professor of political science, will retire from active
faculty status on April 30, 2002.
Born in New York, Professor Singer earned his A.B. degree from Duke University
in 1946 and his Ph.D. degree from New York University in 1956. From 1955-58 he held
visiting positions at Vassar College and Harvard University. He joined the University of
Michigan Department of Political Science in 1958 as a visiting assistant professor. He
left in 1960 to become a consultant at the U.S. Naval War College, but returned to the
University of Michigan in 1962 as an associate research political scientist. He was
promoted to research political scientist and associate professor in 1964, and to professor
in 1965. He received tenure in 1969.
From 1961-82, Professor Singer chaired the Societal Sciences Group of the Mental
Health Research Institute, and from 1969-75 and again from 1982-91 he was the
coordinator of the World Politics Program within the Department of Political Science. In
1964 he founded the Correlates of War Project, the most prominent world politics data
collection and analysis project, and served as its director until 2000. Professor Singer
was elected president of the Peace Research Society (International) in 1972 and of the
International Studies Association in 1985. In 1990 he was the inaugural winner of the
American Political Science Association's Lifetime Achievement Award within the
Conflict Processes Section. This past fall he was awarded the inaugural Founders Medal
by the Peace Science Society.
Professor Singer has made major contributions to the study of virtually every aspect
of world politics, including arms control, deterrence, international organization funding,
the causes of war and other types of conflict, research design issues, and the policy
implications of research in these areas. He has published 19 books and over 100 journal
articles, many of which are among the most widely-cited works in the field, and is
considered to be one of the founders of the quantitative study of world politics. Along the
way, he taught a generation of graduate students who have become leaders of the
profession.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar, teacher, and colleague by naming
J. David Singer professor emeritus of political science.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for Lemuel A.
Johnson, professor of English language and literature.  Interim  Provost Courant
commented on Professor Johnson and noted he stood out among faculty members.
Associate Provost Lester Monts commented that Professor Johnson would be receiving
the Johnson Diversity in Service Award posthumously and described the
accomplishments that led to Professor Johnson being selected for this award. Interim
Provost Courant also introduced Professor Johnson's wife, Marian Johnson.


282




April Meeting, 2002


A round of applause followed.
Lemuel A. Johnson, Ph.D., professor of English language and literature, died at
home on March 12, 2002, at the age of 60 after an extended illness.
A native of Sierra Leone, West Africa, in 1960 Professor Johnson earned the highest
marks in all of West Africa on the Cambridge University Higher School Certificate
examinations. He received an A.B. degree from Oberlin College in 1965, an M.A.
degree from Pennsylvania State University in 1966, and a Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1968. He joined the faculty as assistant professor of English
that same year and rose rapidly to the rank of professor.
Professor Johnson held visiting appointments at the Colegio de Mexico, Mexico
City, and at the University of Sierra Leone, the Salzberg Seminar, and Oberlin College.
He was elected president of the African Literature Association (1977-78) and vice
president of the Association of Caribbean Studies (1983-85), and served on the Social
Science Research Council's Africa Committee (1985-1990). From 1985-91, he directed
the University's Center for Afroamerican and African Studies. His honors included a
Steelcase Research Professorship at the Institute for the Humanities, a Faculty
Recognition Award, a Recognition Award from the Center for Afroamerican and African
Studies, and a Certificate of Distinction for Outstanding Teaching.
As a leading scholar of the African Diaspora, Professor Johnson was especially
interested in American, Latin American, Caribbean, and African literature. He authored
numerous articles and published two books of scholarly criticism, The Devil, the
Gargoyle, & the Buffoon: The Negro as Metaphor in Western Literatures (1970) and
Shakespeare in Africa & Other Venues: Import and the Appropriation of Culture
(1998), and a translation into English from the Spanish of Rafael Alberti's play, Night &
War in the Prado Museum (1969). He was also the author of the much-acclaimed Sierra
Leone Trilogy (1995), which comprised three volumes of poetry. At the time of his
death, he had essentially completed a seventh book, to be titled Private Parts & Public
Bodies: The Experience of Sexuality in African Literature.  Professor Johnson's
scholarly interests ranged over the globe, and he was fluent in Spanish, Portuguese,
French, Italian, and German, as well as Krio, his national language, and Yoruba, Hausa,
and Igbo.
Professor Johnson was an advocate for human liberty and human dignity for all
people. A scrupulous and sophisticated scholar, an elegant and passionate poet, a
generous and much-loved colleague, in thought, imagination, and practice he was, in the
most charming and persuasive ways, an enemy to all bigotries and a discountenancer of
little minds.
Lemuel Johnson is survived by his wife, Marian Yankson Johnson, as well as his
daughter, Yma Johnson; his son, Yshelu Johnson; his granddaughter, Shekinah Johnson
Cornelio, all of Ann Arbor; and one sister, Gloria Lock, of England.
Degrees. Interim President White submitted a recommendation for the award of
honorary degrees to Stephen K. Hamp (Doctor of Laws) and William A. McClain
(Doctor of Laws).
Interim Provost Courant submitted for approval the April 26, 2002 Doctoral Degree
List and changes to previously approved degree lists and noted that the lists are on file in
the Office of the Vice President and Secretary of the University.


283




April Meeting, 2002


Approval of Consent Agenda.      On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent
Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Financial Statements and Reports Pursuant to Federal Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-133
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted financial statements and reports as
required by the Federal Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133.
Regents Serving     as Trustee    of Charitable    Remainder Trusts with       Multiple
Charitable Remainder Beneficiaries
Executive Vice President Kasdin submitted information regarding a change in the
University's guidelines so that they will now permit the irrevocable grant of a trust to the
benefit of the University provided that at least 51% of the assets go to the University, as
described in the Regents Communication. The acceptance criteria follow:
CHARITABLE REMAINDER TRUSTS
WITH MULTIPLE CHARITABLE REMAINDER BENEFICIAR IES
ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA
For gifts of charitable remainder trusts in which the University of Michigan is asked to
serve as trustee and in which the donor has expressed a desire to name other charitable
organizations as charitable remainder beneficiaries in addition to the University of
Michigan, the following acceptance criteria will apply:
The University of Michigan must be the beneficiary of a minimum of 51
percent of the remainder of the trust. The University's remainder designation
must be irrevocable.
* The donor may name other, multiple charitable organizations as charitable
remainder beneficiaries for the rest of the remainder interest. The donor may
retain the right to change the other charities' remainder interest as the law
allows.
T he donor may designate any organization described in section 170(c) of the
Internal Revenue Code as a remainder beneficiary, including a donor's private
foundation. However, the purposes of any other beneficiary of the trust must
not be inconsistent with the objects and purposes of the University, as
determined by the University's Vice President for Development. Further, no
beneficiary should have as its primary purpose the influencing of legislation or
the support of political candidates or ballot propositions.
T The initial trust funding amount allocated for the University of Michigan must
be $100,000 or more. Additional charitable beneficiaries may be named
under the terms of the trust, resulting in a proportionately larger total amount
required for the initial trust funding. As an example, if a donor wishes to name
the University as a two-thirds remainder beneficiary with another charity as a
one-third remainder beneficiary, the minimum amount required for the initial
trust funding would be $150,000.
* Minimum age of income beneficiaries is 50 years or older at the time the trust
is established.
* The University may charge fair and reasonable management fees for charitable
remainder trusts having multiple remainder beneficiaries. A fee schedule will
be developed. It will be shared with donors prior to completion of their trusts.


284




April Meeting, 2002


* The charitable remainder trust document should clearly specify the
distribution arrangements for charitable remainder beneficiaries as well as the
triggering events for such distributions.
* In addition to the information and accountings provided to noncharitable
beneficiaries, the University will provide annual accountings and a copy of the
charitable remainder trust document to the charitable organizations that have
been named as revocable or irrevocable beneficiaries.  However, the
University will not provide information or accountings to a charitable
organization named as a revocable beneficiary, if the donor so directs in
writing.
* The University will not require donors to notify other charitable organizations
named by the donors as designated remainder beneficiaries before the trusts
are completed.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Yorktown Energy Partners V, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Kasdin informed the Regents of a recent commitment of
$15.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Yorktown Energy Partners V, L.P., a
follow-on energy fund.
Alternative Asset Commitments (BPG Investment Partnership, VI, L.P,)
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $15.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to BPG
Investment Partnership VI, L.P., a real estate fund.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Spear Street Capital, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $15.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Spear
Street Capital, L.P., a real estate fund. Regent Homing was absent for this and the
following six votes.
Appointment of Auditors for 2001-02
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved reappointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as auditors for
2001-02.
Restructuring the University of Michigan Business School Foundation Limited
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved restructuring the University of Michigan Business School Foundation Limited by
directing the foundation and general counsel to: 1) Change the foundation's name to
"University of Michigan Hong Kong." 2) Change the "Members" of the foundation to the
Regents of the University of Michigan and the dean of the School of Business
Administration; 3) Change the "Directors" of the foundation to be the Regents of the
University of Michigan, the dean of the School of Business Administration and the associate
dean of executive education. Approval was also granted for the chief financial officer of
the University or that person's designee to represent the Regents' interests as director.


285




Alpril Meeeting, 2002


University of Michigan Business School Growth Fund and Wolverine Venture Fund
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved taking the following measures with respect to the University of Michigan
Business School Growth Fund and Wolverine Venture Fund (WVF), as described in the
Regents Communication:
1.   The governance and administration of the Wolverine Venture Fund as established by
the Board of Regents on June 13, 1997 will be transferred effective immediately to
the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies. The
executive director of the institute and an alumni investment manager will monitor and
direct the activities of the WVF, in consultation with the dean of the University of
Michigan School of Business Administration and the University's executive vice
president and chief financial officer. Future revisions to the operating policies and
procedures of the WVF will be the responsibility of the Advisory Committee of the
Institute.
2.   Mary Lincoln Campbell will be appointed as alumni investment manager of the WVF.
Ms. Campbell will replace David Shelby, the alumni manager for WVF since 1997.
3.   The following individuals will be appointed members of the WVF Advisory Board:
Mary Ann Bovay Alter, Paul Brentlingler, Hal Davis, William Johnson, James D.
Price, Margot Shapiro, and David T. Shelby. Mr. Shelby is the previous alumni
manager and will be serving his first term on the Advisory Board. Other members
will be serving their second term.
4.   The University of Michigan Business School Growth Fund (UMBS GF) liquidated
assets will be transferred to the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for
Entrepreneurial Studies.
5.   The UMBS GF will be terminated and any non-liquid assets remaining in the GF will
be invested for the benefit of the Institute and UMBS as determined by the dean.
University Real Estate
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved that the executive vice president and chief financial officer have
authority to review the University's real estate policies and adopt new policies provided
they are consistent with the Regents' Bylaws governing real estate ownership, acceptance,
management, and disposition.
1304 Gardner, Ann Arbor, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved offering the property at 1304 Gardner in Ann Arbor for sale and
accepting the highest bid above the appraised price, as noted in the Regents
Communication.
Law School Addition and Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Law School Addition and Renovation Project as described and
authorized commissioning the Renzo Piano Building Workshop for its design.
Regent Deitch observed that one of the great accomplishments of former President
Bollinger and Executive Vice President Kasdin was bringing some of the world's great
architects to the campus, and he expressed the hope that this would continue.


286




April Meeting, 2002


Fletcher Parking Deck Elevated Connection to Palmer Drive Development
Executive Vice President Kasdin commented that this walkway would provide a
connection between the Fletcher Parking Structure with the Life Sciences Institute Building
and the Power Center. On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Homing, the
Regents unanimously approved the Fletcher Parking Deck Elevated Connection to Palmer
Drive Development project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Institute for Social Research Miscellaneous Renovations for the Library and
Multiple Departments
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Institute for Social Research —Miscellaneous Renovations for the
Library and Multiple Departments Project as described and authorized issuing the project
for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Medical Science II Building Miscellaneous Research Laboratory Renovations
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the Medical Science II Building Miscellaneous Research
Laboratory Renovations Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Mosher-Jordan Halls Fire Alarm Replacement
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents unanimously
approved the Mosher-Jordan Halls Fire Alarm Replacement Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
School of Information North Building Second Floor Renovations
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the School of Information North Building Second Floor Renovations
Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University Hospital
Underground Diesel Fuel Storage Tank Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents unanimously
approved the UMHHC University Hospital Underground Diesel Fuel Storage Tank
Replacement Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Central Power Plant South End Tunnel Services Interface Modifications
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Central Power Plant South End Tunnel Services Interface
Modifications Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.


287




April Meeting, 2002


Museum of Anthropology's Deaccession and Return of a Collection of Materials
Vice President Ulaby submitted information about the deaccession and return of a
collection of materials from the Museum of Anthropology.
Approval of the 2002-2003 University Housing Residence Hall and Family Housing
Rates
Regent Newman moved approval of a 4.95% average rate increase for University
Housing residence halls and a 4.0% average rate increase for family housing for FY 2002.
She commented that the briefing materials that had been presented to the Regents earlier had
been well done and had convinced her of the necessity of the increases. Regent Horning
seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Establishment of Thirty Additional Unendowed School/College Professorships
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the establishment of thirty additional unendowed school/college
professorships.
Residency Classification Guidelines
Regent McGowan pointed out that Regent Taylor had been outspoken about his
concerns with the residency classification guidelines and suggested that since he was not
present, the discussion might be delayed until the following month.
Interim Provost Courant commented that he had discussed the changes with Regent
Taylor at length and had received his verbal assurance that he was comfortable with
having the issue go forward at this meeting. Interim President White stated that Regent
Taylor had also told him he was comfortable with the matter proceeding in his absence.
It was pointed out that a number of the changes involve liberalizing of the rules and that
students whose cases would benefit from the liberalized rules are on hold awaiting a
decision. Interim President White reiterated that Regent Taylor expects the board to take
up the issue at this meeting.
Interim Provost Courant observed that the guidelines had been under consideration
for a number of months. He noted that there are two aspects of the proposed revisions:
clarification of existing policy so as to make it more friendly, transparent, and
understandable and liberalization of some segments of the existing guidelines. He
commented that the underlying principle of the guidelines is that residency decisions are
based on clear and convincing evidence that an applicant intends to reside in the state
indefinitely. One of the important clarifications is to state this and to note that all
information possible is used to make this judgment; another clarification is the
incorporation of explicit wording that applicants claiming residency based on the
applicant's own employment or that of a family member or partner must establish that
employment is the primary reason for the family's presence in the state.
Substantive changes include changing the penalty for missing the filing deadline to a
late fee rather than an entire semester of nonresident tuition if residency is established.
Another change involves increasing from one year to three years the allowable period of
absence from the state for residents who engage in activities that would contribute to their
further studies. The third substantive change allows active duty military personnel who


288




April Meeting, 2002


are on assignment in Michigan, and their family members, to be eligible for in-state
tuition rates.
Interim Provost Courant noted that no staff from the Residency Classification Office
are members of the Residency Appeals Committee, which enables it to provide a totally
fresh, unbiased review of each case to determine applicants' intent to reside in the state
indefinitely.
Regent Horning moved approval of the amended Residency Classification
Guidelines, effective Spring Term 2002. Regent Deitch seconded the motion.
Regent Deitch commented that although Regent Taylor had been the driving force
behind initiating revisions to the guidelines, the established processes in place at the
University for this type of review worked. During the review of the guidelines, it
emerged that the system as currently administered is administered fairly. He noted that
"these are well thought out and narrowly tailored improvements, clarifications, and
revisions that will make the system work better." Regent Newman pointed out that one of
the improvements in the new guidelines is the fact that they clarify explicitly some issues
that had caused confusion among people applying for residency, such as the employment
of a spouse.
The vote was then taken, and the revised Residency Classification Guidelines were
approved unanimously (See Appendix, 295). Interim President White thanked Regent
Taylor for the leadership role he played in the revision process.
Change in Name of Master of Arts in Adult Instruction Performance Technology
Program at University of Michigan-Dearborn
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved changing the name of the "Master of Arts in Adult Instruction
Performance Technology" program at University of Michigan-Dearborn to "Master of Arts
in Performance Improvement and Design."
Public Comments Suggestion
Regent Newman suggested that for one-day meetings, Public Comments be held prior
to consideration of the regular agenda to give people an opportunity to comment on agenda
action items before they are voted on. Regent Maynard expressed concern that changing the
public comment time to earlier in the day might be a deterrent to student participation due to
class schedules.
Vice President Tedesco commented that the deadline for signing up for Public
Comments is 4:00 p.m. on the Wednesday before the meeting. If someone signs up to
speak on an agenda-related topic, the president would be asked to delay the vote on that
item until after that person has spoken.
Regent Homing left the meeting at this point.
Following a three-minute break, the meeting reconvened at 3:25 p.m.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Financial Performance
Executive Vice President Omenn reviewed the data in the Regents Communication
that had been presented at the previous meeting as well as charts indicating sources of


289




Apri Nleeting, 2002


revenue, balance sheets, and cash flow for the entire University of Michigan Health System
(UMHS), which includes the Medical School and M-Care. He noted that additional
information was being provided about the 14 U.S. News and World Report top-ranked
hospitals, including whether the facility is university owned, university affiliated, or
independent. With respect to operating margin, he stated that the University of Michigan
was ranked sixth at 0.6% for FY2000. For FY2001, the University's operating margin of
1.3% would be ranked third if the others remained about the same as in 2000. In any case,
the University of Michigan ranks in the upper half in the category of operating margin.
It was noted that the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) has an extremely strong balance street and that the challenge is in the annual
operating margin. Regarding the operating margin, it was noted that a positive operating
margin is desirable for providing capital for upgrades and growth and for maintaining the
outstanding bond ratings. It also reinforces financial security and long-term stability as
well as resources for transfers to the academic and research programs. Certain important
responsibilities of the Health System put downward pressure on the operating margin:
maintaining a broad array of patients for education and research; accepting patients from
the poorest payers, especially Medicaid; accepting patients from payers who do not
include payments for graduate medical education, including M-Care; and investing in
efforts to enhance quality, safety, patient satisfaction, and staff and faculty satisfaction.
Among the steps that have been taken to increase the operating margin are being
more selective about the payer mix and being proactive about payment rates. Executive
Vice President Omenn commented that a lot of negotiation takes place between UMHHS
personnel and third party payers about reimbursement issues.
Regent Newman observed that, according to the chart on page one, both revenues
and expenses have been increasing each year, and she asked what is being done to control
expenses. Executive Vice President Omenn responded that expenses have been contained
very substantially by net cost reductions and by spreading fixed costs over more volume.
The question was raised as to whether inpatient capacity needs to be increased in order
to increase volume, and if so, what areas should be targeted for growth.
Regent Newman observed that so far the hospital has done well, but that almost
everything possible has already been done to decrease expenses and increase volume,
leaving the situation stagnant. Thus, the issue is how the institution can continue to
increase revenue in the future while maintaining current assets. She commented that the
areas that produce the most revenue are those in which there is no more capacity for
growth, and unless this is addressed now, it will be difficult to grow in the future.
Regent McGowan called attention to the "Patient Activity Trends" chart and noted
that there are a number of areas, including adult cardiovascular, cancer care, and organ
transplants, in which lack of growth is a concern. She noted that the issue of expanding
facilities for cardiovascular care has been on the table for years but never seems to move
beyond the discussion stage. She expressed frustration at the complications that appear to
stymie building projects necessary for expansion of revenue-producing clinical facilities
such as cardiovascular care and cancer care.
Interim President White responded that these issues of expanding capacity are
currently under discussion by the UMHHC Executive Board. Regents Newman and
McGowan pointed out that such discussions have been underway for a number of years


290




April Meeting, 2002


but don't seem to get resolved, and now is the time to plan for future growth if deficits are
to be avoided.
Regarding the Cardiovascular Center, Regent McGowan asked whether a timetable
has been set for bringing this proposal to the board and urged that it be planned as a
clinical facility without associated research and office space. Executive Vice President
Omenn responded that the Cardiovascular Center's proposal for a clinical facility has
been developed with a number of departments to be the equivalent of a "heart hospital."
It is to be located at the "Old Main" site and would connect to the Cancer Center and the
Main Hospital and have 216,000 square feet devoted to clinical services.
Interim President White proposed that the previous plan for discussion of health
system financial issues be revised and that at the May meeting the Regents could be
presented with the current plans for new clinical facilities. It was noted that issues
involving faculty office space and laboratory space have slowed progress somewhat on
advancing these plans. Regent McGowan suggested that office space and laboratory
space be considered on a different track from clinical facilities so that development of the
revenue-producing aspect —the clinical facilities —can be accelerated.
Regent Deitch agreed that if the market analysis shows that construction of such a
facility will be a profitable venture, then it should proceed. He pointed out, however,
that as a teaching and research institution, the University of Michigan also needs to be
concerned with the entire spectrum of diseases, some of which may not be profitable.
Regent Newman reiterated that the concern is that planning for the future is critical to
ensuring that the hospital remains in a healthy financial position.
Discussion then followed about how the Certificate of Need process affects
facilities planning. It was noted that Michigan is one of 15 states that require every
additional hospital bed, procedure room, operating room, imaging facility, etc., to be
approved at the state level. Although there has been discussion about eliminating this
process, it has been improved in recent years and does have positive aspects.
Executive Vice President Omenn commented that the core model of the health
system has historically been to integrate clinical, research, and patient care activities.
Nevertheless, the most recent thinking about the Cardiovascular Center building is that
serious consideration needs to be given to construction of two separate facilities, one for
clinical use and one for non-clinical needs. This approach would enable the clinical
facility to get underway much sooner.
Regent McGowan commented that the Regents' concerns stem from past discussions
of these issues with UMHS officials, so that they are now convinced that the
revenue-producing clinical facilities are essential for maintaining the health of the
institution. Regent Newman suggested that there be an examination of trends to establish
possible future directions for the hospital and continued review of efforts being made to
control costs.
Regent Newman raised the issue of how the University's liability for health benefits
for retirees impacts the hospitals and asked whether that has been factored in to future
expense calculations. It was noted that this liability is about $650 million and is
nonfunded.  Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that national accounting
standards may require that this liability be funded in the future.


291




April Meeting, 2002


Regent Newman asked whether the funding for retirement benefits of new employees
should be raised as an item for discussion.
Regent Deitch observed that the reason that no university that has a hospital
associated with it would ever receive a AAA bond rating from S&P is because these are
large institutions with slim margins and a lot of risk. He noted that the sense of urgency in
this discussion is based not on the current healthy financial situation, but on the desire to
remain ahead of the curve and plan for the future. The operating margin is important
because it creates reserves and financial strength, and he agreed that it is important to
move forward from the current position of strength. He noted that this was central to the
reasoning behind creating the position of executive vice president and chief financial
officer six years ago. The issue of ensuring that the hospital retains its ability to
contribute to the Medical School was also raised.
Executive Vice President Kasdin reiterated that the University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers have an extraordinarily strong balance sheet and recurring,
although admittedly thin, positive operating margins, thanks to the leadership of Executive
Vice President Omenn and his staff, and it is important to view this discussion in that
context.
For future discussions, Regent Maynard said it will be important to spend time
considering the five most important areas confronting the UMHHC, as originally
proposed, because there may be other issues beyond those raised today that deserve
consideration.
Executive Vice President Omenn commented that additional beds have been opened
in the past five years and the hospital is actually licensed for more beds than are staffed.
There was discussion of what is being done to solve the nursing shortage; the Regents
expressed an interest in learning more about that issue.
Executive Vice President Omenn noted that existing inpatient and outpatient services
have been expanding. Additional beds have been opened in the Emergency Room, and
inpatient-related medical services have been expanded. In the area of cancer treatment,
he explained that the reason that the number of discharges is flat is because there has been
an enormous increase in cancer care done on an outpatient basis. He pointed out that
$120 million per year is being spent on capital investment.
Regent McGowan inquired about the array of services offered for cardiac care.
Executive Vice President Omenn responded that there is a preventive cardiology program
in place. However, the vast majority of the outpatients have serious congestive heart
failure, previous myocardial infarction, high-risk-factor cardiovascular disease, or are
undergoing  procedures  such  as  echocardiography,  electrocardiography,  and
electrophysiology. A very significant amount of cardiac surgery is also being performed,
including the most complex referral cases. He pointed out that the market share for
cardiac care and cardiac surgery care is very diffused in the state of Michigan; there is
likely to be a gradual concentration of procedures over the next several years as people
recognize that the centers with the most volume and best outcomes are the most desirable
places to choose to receive care, which will favor the planned expansion of the current
Cardiovascular Center programs.


292




Apri Nleeting, 2002


Regarding transplants, he noted that, although they result in a positive margin, there
is a shortage of donors. In addition, they involve more than just surgical cases, as many
very ill patients with complex diseases must be taken care of for every one that becomes
a transplant recipient. Thus, the contribution to margin provided by transplants needs to
be considered against the base of all of the potential transplant patient population. The
health system has analyzed the transplant issue and has concluded that, even though it is
less profitable than generally believed, it is still desirable to undertake because of the
cutting edge procedures involved.
Regarding cancer treatment, Executive Vice President Omenn stated that the margin
is currently quite attractive for many procedures, but this fact has also been recognized by
the payers, who are now attempting to sharply reduce reimbursement rates.
In summary, he pointed out that the Health System has done advance planning on the
Cardiovascular Center, psychiatry consolidation and the Depression Research Center,
expansion of the Kellogg Eye Center, and a replacement facility for the Children's and
Women's Hospitals.
In response to a question about poor payment rates for the care of children, he
responded that the University's Center for Women's Health is nationally prominent and
the obstetric service has been greatly enhanced and expanded in recent years, yet these
services provide little or no margin. However, over the long term they are important for
building the University's reputation with families for future health care needs. Women
are the key decision-makers, he said. In general, primary care is a money-losing
proposition. The theory is that a well-run, highly efficient, patient-friendly, primary care
service cannot be expected to cover all of its cost, but the system gets benefits
downstream from ancillary services and from complex conditions that lead to specialty
services that are better reimbursed. He pointed out that hospital officials themselves are
asking the same questions as the Regents: how do we manage to meet all of these needs
and all of these complexities while ensuring that all is being done to justify the higher
paying services without neglecting the other areas?
Executive Vice President Kasdin pointed out that the integrated structure among
UMHS officials and central administration, along with oversight by the Board of Regents,
is important to the rating agencies.
Regent McGowan reiterated that the message that should be taken to UMHHS
officials from today's discussion should be that "whatever it is we're choosing, let's get
going on it, let's figure out how we're going to do it, and let's remove the ancillary,
non-revenue-related items from the discussion," so they don't get in the way of making
progress.
Interim President White thanked the Regents and Executive Vice President Omenn
for the thoughtful discussion and said that plans for the future will be presented at the next
session scheduled for these matters.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics indicated:
Ken Stewart and Stephen Rassi, students, on United Way solicitation at the University; Jeff
Irwin, alumnus, on the student fee proposal for the Ann Arbor Tenants Union; Cedric de


293




April Meeting, 2002


Leon, student, on the Graduate Employees Organization labor negotiations; and David
Boyle, student, on democracy on the Board of Regents and at the University.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:50 p.m. The next
meeting will take place May 18-19, 2002.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary caf the University


294




APRIL MEETING, 2002
APPENDIX - RESIDENCY CLASSIFICATION GUIDELINES
The University of Michigan enrolls students from 50 states and more than 120 countries. Residency
Classification Guidelines have been developed to ensure that decisions about whether a student pays
in-state or out-of-state tuition are fair and equitable and that all applicants for admission or enrolled
students, even those who believe they are Michigan residents, understand they may be asked to
complete an Application for Resident Classification and provide additional information to document
their residency status. We realize at the outcome of a residency determinate of ion is a critical factor for
many students in their enrollment dcision. Please read thessse guidelines carefully so you understand
how a residency determination is made and how to verify your eligibility for resident classification.
YOU MAY STILL NEED TO FILE A RESIDENCY AlPLICATIO
If you believe you are a Michigan resident and any of the following circumstances apply, you
must file an Application for Resident Classification and be approved to qualify for in-state
tuition:
*   you currently live outside the state of Michigan for any purpose, including, but not limited to,
education, volunteer activities, military service, travel, employment.
*   you have attended or graduated from a college outside the state of Michigan.
*   you have been employed or domiciled outside the state of Michigan within the last three years.
*   you are not a U.S. citizen or Permanent Resident Alien (if you're a Permanent Resident Alien,
you must have a Permanent Resident Alien card).
*   your spouse, partner, or parent is in Michigan as a nonresident student, medical resident,
fellow, or for military assignment or other temporary employment.
*   you are 24 years of age or younger and a parent lives outside the state of Michigan.
*   you are 24 years of age or younger and have attended or graduated from a high school outside
the state of Michigan.
*   you have attended or graduated from an out-of-state high school and have been involved in
educational pursuits for the majority of time since high school graduation.
*   you previously attended any U-M campus (Ann Arbor, Dearborn, or Flint) as a nonresident.
Other circumstances may also require you to file a residency application.
IHOW AND WHERE.t DO I FILE A RESIDENCY AP3PLICATION?
Residency applications and in-person assistance are available at the Residency Classification Office,
1514 LSA Bldg., 500 South State Street, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1382, phone
(734) 764-1400. Business hours are 8 a.m.-5 p.m. weekdays.
FILING DEADLINES
September 30 for Fall Term
January 31 for Winter Term
July 31 for Spring, Spring/Summer, and Summer Terms
Applications must be received in the Residency Classification Office by 5 p.m. on the deadline date.
If the deadline falls on a weekend, it will be extended to the next business day. The deadline date is


295




April Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A - Residency Classification Guidelines


always after the first day of classes of the term in which you are enrolling and seeking residency.
These deadlines apply to all U-M schools, colleges, and campuses. For the On-Job/On-Campus
program only, filing deadlines are 30 calendar days after the first scheduled day of classes of the term
applied for. You may apply for resident classification for any term in which you are enrolled or intend
to enroll.
Late applications will be assessed a nonrefundable $300 late fee and will be accepted up to the last
published day of classes of the term for which you are applying. Late applications received after the
last day of classes will be processed for the following term. In all cases, decisions will be based only
on those facts that are in place by the original filing deadline for the term under consideration.
WHAlT D3     MENTSDO 1301 NEED TO FILE FOR RESIDENT CLASSIFCATlION?
Along with the completed Application for Resident Classification form, you must provide the
following:
*  for all applicants: copies of your driver's license and the license(s) of the person or persons
upon whom you are basing your claim to resident eligibility.
*  for all applicants: copies of the front and signature pages of the most recent year's federal
and state income tax returns and W2 forms for you and the person or persons upon whom you
are basing your claim to resident eligibility.
*  for applicants born outside the U.S.: verification of U.S. citizenship or visa status.
*  for applicants who are dependents (see Residency Classification Guideline B-l below):
copies of the front and signature pages of your parents' most recent year's federal and state
income tax returns with accompanying W2 forms.
*  for applicants whose claim to eligibility for resident classification is based on permanent,
full-time employment for themselves, a spouse, partner, or parent: a letter from the
employer, written on letterhead (including phone number), stating the position, status, and dates
of employment. In addition to the letter, provide a copy of the most recent pay stub showing
Michigan taxes being withheld.
* for all applicants: any other documentation that supports your claim to resident eligibility.
The Residency Classification Office may request additional documentation. All information will be
kept confidential to the extent permitted by law.
In making residency determinations, the University considers all information provided in or with an
application. Decisions to approve a residency application are made when the applicant has presented
clear and convincing evidence that a permanent domicile in the state of Michigan has been established.
Because each of Michigan's public universities has autonomous authority to establish residency
guidelines for admission and tuition purposes, guidelines vary by school and are independent of
regulations used by other state authorities to determine iesidency for such purposes as income and
property tax liability, driving, and voting.  The University of Michigan's current Residency
Classification Guidelines were approved by its Board of Regents to take effect Spring Term 2002 and to
apply to students at all campuses.
The Board of Regents has authorized the Residency Classification Office in the Office of the Registrar
on the Ann Arbor campus to administer the University's residency guidelines. If your activities and
circumstances as documented to the Residency Classification Office demonstrate establishment of a
permanent domicile in Michigan, you will be classified as a resident once your eligibility has been


296




April Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A - Residency Classification Guidelines


confirmed. If your presence in the state is based on activities or circumstances that are determined to
be temporary or indeterminate, you will be classified as a nonresident.
Our Residency Classification Guidelines explain how you can document establishment of a permanent
domicile in Michigan. To overcome a presumption of nonresident status, you must file a residency
application and document that a Michigan domicile has been established. Eligibility criteria are
explained in more detail in sections A and B of this document. Meeting the criteria to be placed in an
"eligible" category doesn't guarantee that you will automatically be classified a resident. If you have had
any out-of-state activities or ties, or if the University otherwise questions your residency status, you
will need to confirm your eligibility to be classified as a resident by filing an Application for Resident
Classification in a timely manner and by providing clear and convincing evidence that you are eligible
for resident classification under the following Guidelines.
A. GENERAL GUIDELINES
1. CIRCUMSTANCES THAT MAYDEMONSTRATE PERMANENT DOMICILE
The following circumstances and activities, though not conclusive or exhaustive, may lend support to a
claim to eligibility for resident classification if other applicable Guidelines (see section B) are met:
*  both parents (in the case of divorce, one parent) permanently domiciled in Michigan as
demonstrated by permanent employment, establishment of a household, and severance of
out-of-state ties.
*   applicant employed in Michigan in a full-time, permanent position, provided that the applicant's
employment is the primary purpose for his or her presence in the state and that out-of-state ties
have been severed. If the applicant is married or has a partner, the employment must be the
primary purpose for the family's presence in Michigan.
*   spouse or partner employed in Michigan in a full-time, permanent position, provided that the
employment of the spouse or partner is the primary purpose for the family's presence in the
state, and that out-of-state ties have been severed.
2. CIRCUMSTANCES THAT DO NOT DEMONSTRATE PERMANENT DOMICILE
The circumstances and activities listed below are temporary or indeterminate and do not demonstrate
permanent domicile:
*   enrollment in high school, community college, or university.
*  participation in a medical residency program, fellowship, or internship.
*   employment that is temporary or short-term or of the type usually considered an internship or
apprenticeship.
*   employment of the spouse or partner of an individual who is in Michigan for temporary
pursuits.
*   employment in a position normally held by a student.
*   military assignment in Michigan for the applicant or the applicant's spouse, partner, or parent
(see section C for special military provision).
*  payment of Michigan income tax and/or filing of Michigan resident income tax returns.
*  presence of relatives (other than parents).
* ownership of property or payment of Michigan property taxes.
*  possession of a Michigan driver's license.


297




April Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A - Residency Classification Guidelines


*  voter registration in Michigan.
*  possession of a Permanent Resident Alien visa.
*  continuous physical presence for one year or more.
*   statement of intent to be domiciled in Michigan.
B. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR RESIDENCY
Even if one or more of the following circumstances applies to you, you may still need to file an
application for resident classification. If you have had any out-of-state activity or have any out-of-state
ties, you must submit an Application for Resident Classification by the filing deadline to request
resident classification and confirm your eligibility. You must document that you meet all of the
following applicable criteria to be eligible for resident classification and payment of in-state tuition.
1. DEPENDENT STUDENTS
For U-M residency classification purposes, you are presumed to be a dependent of your parents if you
are 24 years of age or younger and (1) have been primarily involved in educational pursuits, or (2) have
not been financially self-supporting through employment.
a. Residents
i. Dependent Student - Parents in Michigan If your parents are domiciled in Michigan as
defined by University Residency Classification Guidelines, you are presumed to be eligible for
resident classification as long as you have not taken steps to establish a domicile outside of
Michigan or any other action inconsistent with maintaining a domicile in Michigan.
ii. Dependent Student of Divorced Parents - One Parent in Michigan If your parents are
divorced, you are presumed to be eligible for resident classification if one parent is domiciled
in Michigan as defined by University Residency Classification Guidelines, and if you have not
taken steps to establish an independent domicile outside of Michigan or any other action
inconsistent with maintaining a domicile in Michigan.
iii. Dependent Resident Student Whose Parents Leave Michigan. If you are a student living
in Michigan and permanently domiciled in the state as defined by University Residency
Classification Guidelines, you are presumed to retain resident status eligibility if your parents
leave the state provided: (1) you have completed at least your junior year of high school prior
to your parents' departure, (2) you remain in Michigan, enrolled full-time in high school or an
institution of higher education, and (3) you have not taken steps to establish a domicile outside
Michigan or any other action inconsistent with maintaining a domicile in Michigan.
b. Nonresidents
The University presumes you are a nonresident if you are a dependent student and your parents are
domiciled outside the state of Michigan.
2. MICHIGAN RESIDENTS AND ABSENCES FROM THE STATE
You may be able to retain your eligibility for resident classification under the conditions listed below if
you are domiciled in Michigan as defined by University Residency Classification Guidelines and leave
the state for certain types of activities. However, if you have been absent from the state, you must file
an Application for Resident Classification by the appropriate filing deadline to request resident
classification and demonstrate your eligibility.
a. Absence for Active Duty Military Service (U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines, Coast
Guard, Officers in the Public Health Service), Non-Administrative Missionary Work, Peace
Corps, AmeriCorps, or Similar Philanthropic Work


298




April Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A - Residency Classification Guidelines


If you are domiciled in Michigan at the time of entry into active military duty, missionary work,
Peace Corps, or similar service, you are presumed to retain your eligibility for resident
classification as long as you are on continuous active duty or in continuous service and
continuously claim Michigan as the state of legal residence for income tax purposes. If you are a
dependent child of such an individual, you are presumed to be eligible for resident classification
provided: (1) you are coming to the U-M directly from high school or have been continuously
enrolled in college since graduating from high school, and (2) you have not claimed residency for
tuition purposes elsewhere.
b. Absence for Education or Training
If you are domiciled in Michigan immediately preceding an absence from the state for full-time
enrollment at a college or university or for a formal, full-time medical residency program, medical
internship or fellowship, you are presumed to retain your eligibility for resident classification
provided: (1) you have maintained significant ties to the state during your absence (e.g., your
parents remain domiciled in Michigan, you continue to maintain for personal family use the home
that was previously your principal residence in Michigan, etc.), (2) you sever out-of-state ties upon
returning to Michigan, and (3) you have not claimed residency for tuition purposes elsewhere.
c. Absence for Employment and Personal Development to Enhance Qualifications for a
Degree Program
The University recognizes the vital role of nonacademic and work experience in your education, and
many graduate programs require or recommend that you have up to three years of relevant work
experience before applying. If you were domiciled in Michigan immediately preceding an absence
from the state of three years or less, and the absence was for employment or personal development
activities undertaken for the purpose of enhancing qualifications for a degree program, you may
return to the University as a resident for admission and tuition purposes provided: (1) you have
maintained significant ties to the state during your absence (e.g., your parents remain domiciled in
Michigan, you continue to maintain for personal family use the home that was previously your
principal residence in Michigan, etc.), (2) you sever out-of-state ties upon returning to Michigan,
and (3) you have not claimed residency for tuition purposes elsewhere.
d. Temporary Absence of Less Than One Year
If you have been domiciled in Michigan immediately preceding other absences from the state and
you return within one year, you are presumed to retain eligibility for resident classification
provided: (1) you have maintained significant ties to the state during your absence (e.g., your
parents remain domiciled in Michigan, you continue to maintain for personal family use the home
that was previously your principal residence in Michigan, etc.), (2) you sever out-of-state ties upon
returning to Michigan, and (3) you have not claimed residency for tuition purposes elsewhere.
3. IMMIGRANTS AND ALIENS
You must be entitled to reside permanently in the United States to be eligible for resident classification
at the University. However, like U.S. citizens, you must also show you have established a Michigan
domicile as defined in these Guidelines. The Residency Classification Office will review Applications
for Resident Classification if you are in one of the following immigrant categories:
*  Permanent Resident Aliens (Must be fully processed and possess Permanent Resident Alien
card or stamp in a passport verifying final approval by filing deadline for applicable term.)
*   Refugees (1-94 card must designate "Refugee.")
*  A, E (primary), G and I visa holders (Based upon current law, these nonimmigrant visa
classifications are the only ones that permit the visa holder to establish a domicile in the
United States.)
4. ONE YEAR CONTINUOUS PHYSICAL PRESENCE


299




April Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A - Residency Classification Guidelines


If you are unable to demonstrate establishment of a domicile in Michigan as defined by the University's
Guidelines, you will be required to document one year of continuous physical presence in the state as
part of your efforts to demonstrate eligibility for resident classification in any subsequent application.
The year to be documented will be the year immediately preceding the first day of classes of the term
for which residency is sought.
The year of continuous physical presence in the state is never the only criterion for determining
eligibility for resident classification and, in itself, will not qualify you for resident status (see sections
A 1 and B 1, 2, and 3 for additional eligibility criteria).
If there is a significant change in the circumstances regarding your presence in Michigan and you can
clearly demonstrate that you have established a permanent Michigan domicile, you may be eligible for
resident classification prior to the passage of one year of physical presence in the state and are
encouraged to submit an Application for Resident Classification for any subsequent term in accordance
with the applicable filing deadline.
To demonstrate the year of continuous presence in Michigan, you will need to document actual physical
presence through enrollment, employment, in-person financial transactions, etc.
Having a lease or a permanent address in the state does not, in itself, qualify as physical presence. Short
absences (summer vacation of 21 days or less, spring break, and the break between fall and winter term)
nature will e assessed to determine whether it is contrary to an intent to be domiciled in Michigan. If
you are absent from the state for periods of time other than those mentioned above or fail to document
your presence at the beginning and end of the year, you will not meet the criteria for the one-year
continuous physical presence requirement.
C SPECIAL PROVISION FOR ACTIVE DUTY MILITARY PERSONNEL
ASSIGNED TO MICHIGAN
Active duty military personnel who are on assignment in Michigan, as well as their accompanying
spouses and dependent children, will be allowed to pay in-state tuition while they attend the University
of Michigan, even though they will not be eligible to be classified as residents under the Residency
Classification Guidelines. This provision applies to persons in the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force, Marines
and Coast Guard, and to officers in the Public Health Service. In order to request this special
consideration, the student must submit a residency application by the applicable filing deadline and
provide documentation demonstrating eligibility.
D. HOW CAN I APPEAL?
If you filed an Application for Resident Classification and were denied by the Residency
Classification Office, you have recourse to an appeal process by filing a written appeal within
30 calendar days of the denial.
The Board of Regents established the Residency Appeal Committee to review decisions made by the
Residency Classification Office. The Appeal Committee is chaired by the Vice President and Secretary
of the University and includes two other University administrators, a faculty member, and a student. The
Residency Coordinator and other staff members in the Residency Classification Office are not part of
the Appeal Committee.
Appeals, which must be in writing, should be submitted to the Residency Classification Office.
Please note that the written appeal must be received by the Residency Classification Office
within 30 calendar days of the date on the denial letter.
If the deadline falls on a weekend or University holiday, it will be extended to the next business day. If
there is additional information you would like the Residency Appeal Committee to consider beyond the


300




April Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A - Residency Classification Guidelines


materials you already have submitted, you should submit that additional information, in writing, with
appropriate supporting documentation, when you submit your written appeal. Your request and any
additional information and documentation you provide will be forwarded to the Residency Appeal
Committee with your original file.
All communications to the Residency Appeal Committee must be in writing. Personal contact with a
member of the Committee could disqualify the member from participating in the decision regarding
your residency. The Residency Appeal Committee does not meet in person with students, and
appearances on behalf of students are not permitted at appeal meetings.
After the Appeal Committee has completed its deliberations, you will receive the Committee's final
decision in writing. This will conclude the appeal process for the term covered by the application. The
University will not conduct any further review of the decision.
Warning: Misrepresentation or Falsification of Information Can be Costly
Individuals who provide false or misleading information or omit relevant information
in an application for admission or for resident classification, or any other document
related to residency eligibility, may be subject to legal or disciplinary measures.
Students who are improperly classified as residents based on such information will
have their residency classification changed and may be retroactively charged
nonresident tuition for the period of time they were improperly classified. The
University also reserves the right to audit prospective or enrolled students at any time
regarding eligibility for resident classification and to reclassify students who are
classified incorrectly.


301




April Meeting, 2002 - Appendix A - Residency Classification Guidelines


302




MAY MEETING, 2002


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 16. 2002
The Regents convened at 2:45 p.m. in the Professional Education Center on the
campus of the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Present were Interim President White
and Regents Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, and Taylor. Also present
were Interim Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Vice President and General
Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Little, Chancellor Mestas, Interim Chief Financial Officer
Slottow, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice
President Wilbanks. Regents Brandon and White were absent, as were Executive Vice
President Omenn and Vice President Rudgers.
President's Opening Remarks
Interim President White called the meeting to order. He thanked Chancellor Little and
members of the Dearborn campus community for hosting the meeting.
Interim President White commented on the recent decision by the U.S. 6th Circuit
Court of Appeals upholding the University of Michigan Law School's affirmative action
admissions policy. He noted that the court had upheld the University's research-based
findings of the vital importance of a diverse student body in achieving educational
excellence for all students. He pointed out that more than 100 organizations had
supported the University's policy in the case, including corporations, other educational
institutions, unions, and non-profit organizations. He thanked everyone at the University
who had contributed to the University's efforts on this case.
Interim President White commented on notable events and achievements of
University faculty, staff, and students from the Ann Arbor and Dearborn campuses during
the past month.
Interim President White reported that prior to the start of the meeting, the Regents
had toured the Ford Training and Development Center, located proximal to the Dearborn
Campus, and that discussions have taken place regarding the possible acquisition of the
facility by the University of Michigan-Dearborn. He called on Regent Deitch.
Regent Deitch observed that the facility was very impressive but also very large and
would be a major addition to the campus. He noted that all of the ramifications of its
possible acquisition would need to be considered before any decisions can be made. He
requested that the administration undertake further study and analysis of the proposition,
and then consult with the Board of Regents.
Regent Deitch further commented that the Regents had established a new internal
governance structure several months ago that included a chair, a vice chair, and two
committees. He stated that he would be proposing suggestions for vice chair and
committee memberships at the next meeting. Once the committees have been named, each
will develop a suggested charter, function, and structure in conjunction with the
administration. He observed that a major project such as acquisition of the Ford facility


303




May Meeting, 2002


is just the type of proposition that would be suitable for study by such a Regental
committee.
Interim President White said that extensive due diligence is being performed in
conjunction with the Ford facility, and that all understand that the Regents are the sole
final authority on all property matters involving the University of Michigan.
University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Education Initiatives
John Poster, dean of the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Education,
described the school's Master of Arts in Teaching program, which is designed for
individuals who have a bachelor's degree and are employed in a field other than teaching.
As part of this program, students can serve as full-time substitute teachers to satisfy the
student teaching requirement. He called on Professor Gail Luera, who gave a presentation
on the capstone course to integrate science and sustain professional development in
elementary science education, and Professor Mesut Duran, who presented information
about the Michigan Teachers' Technology Education Network (MITTEN), which prepares
educators to integrate information technology in their professional practice.
Annual Recommendations for Promotion to the Ranks of Professor and Associate
Professor
Am Arbor Camp. Interim Provost Courant reviewed the process for faculty
promotion and tenure at the University and noted that it is an extremely thorough, arduous,
and comprehensive process that is done as carefully and seriously as possible because of
its impact on the current and future intellectual quality of the University. As an example of
the range and breadth of the faculty, he highlighted the accomplishments of several faculty
members recommended for promotion: Meigan Aronson, associate professor of physics;
Scott J. Hollister, associate professor of biomedical engineering, without tenure, associate
professor of mechanical engineering and applied mechanics, without tenure, and associate
professor of surgery, with tenure; John E. Kuhn, assistant professor of surgery; Howard
Markel, associate professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases, with tenure and
associate professor of history, without tenure; Erle S. Robertson, assistant professor of
microbiology and immunology; Mieko Yoshihama, assistant professor of social work; and
Alford A. Young, Jr., assistant professor of sociology and assistant professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies.
Flint Capus. Chancellor Mestas observed that much is expected of faculty at the
University of Michigan-Flint. Although the mission emphasizes teaching, research is not
neglected, and there is a high expectation of service on the part of the Flint community.
He highlighted the dossier of Carolyn M. Gillespie, associate professor of theatre.
Dearborn Camlpus.    Chancellor Little reported that the tenure review  and
evaluation process is rigorous at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. He highlighted
the cases of Stephane Spoiden, assistant professor of French; and Mary Donegan,
assistant professor of education.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Horning, the Regents
unanimously approved the annual promotions to the ranks of professor and associate
professor.


304




May Meeting, 2002


Report of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF) - Ann Arbor
Campus
Interim President White called on Professor Fred Askari, chair of the CESF on the
Ann Arbor campus. Referring to the CESF report in the agenda book, Professor Askari
noted that the report is based on published data that has not previously been aggregated.
The data were obtained with the cooperation of the provost's office. The goal is to have
salary information available for policy decisions, not to provide conclusions or policy
recommendations.
Among the results of the study are that there are differences between aggregate
salaries by gender and that the use of unpublished salary supplements is common in most
units, with the magnitude of unpublished salary rates greatest in the Medical School.
Some of the key issues resulting from the report are whether serving for a long time in the
same position subjects individuals to a "loyalty tax;" whether pay is transparent; issues of
incentive pay, optimal pay, and equitable pay; and whether previously endorsed
compensation guidelines are being implemented.
Professor Askari commented that CESF is soliciting feedback for future objectives
and has requested data for nontenured faculty and unpublished salary data. It will be
important to see whether trends in faculty compensation over time change or remain the
same.
Regent Maynard suggested that the Ann Arbor CESF work in conjunction with the
parallel committees on the Dearborn and Flint campuses so that the data they present will
use the same methodology. This approach would allow the Regents to make comparisons
across all three campuses. Interim President White concurred that it would be useful for
data to be displayed in the same format for all three campuses.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the April 18,
2002 meeting.
Reports. Interim Chief Financial Officer Slottow submitted reports of Investment
and Plant Extension. Interim Provost Courant submitted the Human Resources and
Affirmative Action Report and noted that AFSCME had recently voted to approve its
contract.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for the period of March 28 - April 3, 2002.
University of Michigan Health System. Interim President White reported, in the
absence of Executive Vice President Omenn, that through April 30, the operating margin
is $10.4 million (1.3%), which is slightly under the $11.2 million budget. He also
reported that in July the Health System would be presenting a budget with a 2% operating
margin. He commented that the ongoing discussions of the Health System issues would
resume at the June meeting with presentation of plans for the cardiovascular center
facility; an analysis of margin by service line; and quality, access, and satisfaction data.
The FY 03 operating budget will be presented in July, along with plans for the psychiatry


305




May Meeting, 2002


and depression center facility and the ophthalmology/Kellogg Eye Center and early
planning for the replacement children's and women's hospitals.
Regent Maynard noted that Executive Vice President Omenn had previously stated
that there are five major issues confronting the Health System, and she would like those to
be included in the discussion.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper had no additional report.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little gave a presentation about the
Rouge Gateway Greenways Project, which will provide access to the campus for
nonmotorized traffic. The project will serve as the first link in a network of Southeast
Michigan greenways and will continue the campus's tradition of environmental
leadership.  The Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan created the
Greenways Initiative and in 2001 awarded $381,750 to the University in support of the
project. He noted that the total projected cost of the project is $1.35 million; no
University funds will be used. The project will be submitted for action by the Board of
Regents at the June or July meeting.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas noted that the dedication of the
William S. White Building will take place on Wednesday, June 5.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. MSA president Sarah Boot commented that
MSA was "thrilled" at the outcome of the Law School affirmative action court case and
noted that "MSA has long held a commitment to the valuable learning experience that our
diverse student body provides." She thanked the Regents and administration, on behalf
of MSA, for making the commitment to preserve the diversity of the campus.
Ms. Boot noted that the MSA report includes a list of upcoming projects from each
of MSA's five committees and 13 commissions, which represents the first step in creating
a vision for the future of MSA. The assembly has developed three broad themes to guide
its work for the coming year: maximizing efficiency by developing action plans for
achievement of goals; making campus improvements such as advocating for installation of
wireless web access in all schools and colleges; and building and improving
relationships among the student body. MSA will hold a retreat in the fall during which it
will prioritize its main goals and define standards of success.
Voluntary Support. Interim Vice President Wilbanks submitted the Report of
Voluntary Support for April 2002.
Ann and Carman Adams Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration............................. $ 108,000
Alpha Advertising, Inc., Middleton, Wisconsin
for WUOM................................................................... 10,044
A.L.S. Association, Woodland Hills, California
for research in the Medical S c h o    o   l............................................... 14,286
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 103,888
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School, the Schools of Nursing and Public Health,
the Division of Kinesiology, and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts.......................................................... 230,879
Fred Anderegg Estate
for the Kelsey Museum  of Archaeology........................................... 35,000
Annenberg Foundation, St. Davids, Pennsylvania
for the Walter H. Annenberg Professor of Education Policy Endowment in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................................... 1,000,000


306




May Meeting, 2002


Anonymous Donor
for research in the School of N u rsing............................................. 50,000
Anonymous Donor
400 shares of Pharmacia Corporation common stock
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  18,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  14,583
Aspen Institute, Queenstown, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 15,000
Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Association, Zug, Switzerland
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 34,985
Ruth Hickman Baker, Wilmington, De aware
530 shares of E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Frank Baker Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.............. 25,000
Baker & Hostetler Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Richard and Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship in the Law School............ 10,000
Robert P. Bavosi Estate
for support of the University of Michigan.........................................  69,655
Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas
for emergency medicine support in the Medical School.............................. 25,000
BMW AG, Muenchen, Germany
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 14,980
Jeffrey G. Bork, Denver, Colorado
244,628 shares of Channel Point, Inc., common stock
for gifts pending  designation...................................................  244,628
Barbara M. Brandenburg, Dearborn
for the Center for Heritage Landscape Fund at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................. 20,000
Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 249,800
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
508 shares of Viacom, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for support ofthe Law   School...................................................  25,182
Mary Lincoln Campbell, Ann Arbor
for the Women's Leadership Council Scholarship Endowed Fund in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 25,000
Campbell Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Lincoln Campbell Endowment in the School of Business Administration... 170,000
CaP Cure, Santa Monica, California
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 75,000
Janet E. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Viacom, Inc., common stock
for the Hill Auditorium  Restoration Fund.......................................... 10,004
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Women's Leadership Council Scholarship Endowed Fund in
the School of Business Administration and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  14,350
Ralph Cotton Estate
for the Ralph F. and Elsie G. Colton Scholarship................................. 1,000,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Auburn Hills
for scholarships in the School of Engineering, at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.... 14,000
Charles A. Dana Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 100,000
Delphi Foundation, Troy
for support in the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering..... 64,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for support in  the  School of Dentistry............................................  30,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering.................. 20,720
Samuel Diener Estate
for the Samuel Diener, M.D. Endowment in the Medical School...................... 100,000
Ecolab Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration................. 10,000
EDS, Plano, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Epker-Percival Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration........... 25,000


307




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


Edsel B. Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 10,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for support in the Medical School and at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......... 231,330
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center,
for research in the College of Engineering, and
for minority fellowships in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................ 97,700
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 10,000
Four Friends Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Robert K. Shaye Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 155,000
GE Power Systems, Greenville, South Carolina
for research in the College of Engineering.........................................75,000
Wilma S. Gilhula Estate
for undergraduate  student aid.................................................... 25,000
John F. Greene & Company, Silverthorne, Colorado
for the Graduate Fellowship in Geological Sciences Endowment in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  50,000
Carroll J. Haas Foundation, Mendon
for the Carroll Haas Research Fund in the Medical School.......................... 100,000
William and Valerie Hall Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 25,000
Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 30,000
James A. Hiller, Franklin
2,600 shares of Adobe Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in  the M edical School............................................... 102,882
Sidney M. Hiller, Franklin
2,304 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 98,579
Hiller Charitable Foundation, Southfield
for support in the Medical School in memory of Harriet Hiller........................ 49,900
Adele L. Huebner, Grosse Pointe Farms
200 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for the M artha Cook  Building Fund............................................... 12,500
Gertrude V. Huebner Trust, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Pharmacy and
for the M artha Cook Building Fund............................................... 60,000
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School........ 10,000
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 20,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 12,500
J. W. and Ida Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 40,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and the School of Public Health and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...................................................  191,945
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  13,750
Kapnick Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Harvey Kapnick Endowed Scholarship and the Ruth and Gilbert R.
Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the School of Business Administration.............. 90,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the Medical School and the Schools of Public Health and Social Work and
for the University  Children's Center............................................. 262,500
Ronald C. Kessler, Newton, Massachusetts
for research in the Institute for Social Research.................................... 25,000
Lannquist Hamilton Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston Massachusetts
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................ 15,000
Elizabeth D. Lee Estate
for the Kenneth E. Vance Scholarship in the School of Information.................... 83,479
Edward T. Leonard Estate
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 18,584


308




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 55,750
Hiram Levy II, New Hope, Pennsylvania
300 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Lois Zook Levy Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................... 12,707
Eli Lill and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
or the Depression Center Fund in the Medical School.............................. 25,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award Fund for Young Journalists in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.................................. 40,625
Lockheed Martin Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the College of Engineering.................................. 15,000
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
for the Robert H. Lurie Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Lutheran Community Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Rodney C. Johnson Scholarship in the School of Music........................ 10,332
A. H. Magnus, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration...................................   25,000
Manitoba Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 150,000
Matria Healthcare, Inc., Marietta, Georgia
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Francianne D. Means Estate
for the Martha Cook Building Fund and the Elbel Louis Student Aid Fund............... 10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., West Point, Pennsylvania
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering and
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 32,500
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the Mel Barclay Medical Student Scholarship in the Medical School................ 10,000
Nathan Milstein, Indianapolis, Indiana
1,200 shares of Bank One Corporation common stock
for the Nathan and Rose Milstein Endowment in the Medical School................... 50,046
Ministry of Culture, Athens, Greece
for the Kelsey M useum  of Archaeolog y........................................... 10,106
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for employee  m atching   gifts....................................................  13,995
National Alliance for Autism Research, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 29,062
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in  the M edical School................................................ 12,500
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  14,870
James 0. Osburn Charitable Remainder Annuity Trust
for support in  the Alumni Association............................................  20,503
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for support in the Schools of Public Health and Natural Resources and Environment...... 90,620
Erika 0. Parker, Evanston, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 20,000
Joseph A. Parry, Naples, Florida
1,930 shares of Coca-Cola Company common stock
for the Joseph Parry Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the History Department in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 100,978
Ralph R. Peachman Estate
for the Captain Ralph R. and Florence M. Peachman Endowed Fund in
the College of Engineering...................................................... 25,000
PepsiAmericas Foundation, Rolting Meadows, Illinois
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,000
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Pfizer Fellowship in Pharmaceutics in the College of Pharmacy,
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  61,000
Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturer' s of America, Washington, DC
for research  in  the M edical School...............................................  10,000
Polo Fields Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Polo Fields Foundation Wellness Fund in the Medical School.................. 50,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  11,800


309




May Meeting, 2002


PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 15,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, New York, New York
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  37,208
Christopher Reeve Paralysis oundation, Springfield, New Jersey
for research in the Division  of Kinesiology........................................ 37,500
Renault, Cedex, France
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.................... 14,975
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 40,000
David M. Roebuck, Bryan, Ohio
for the Yost Arena Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................... 10,000
Mary Romig-deYoung Estate
for the Mary R. Romig-deYoung Music Appreciation Endowment in
the  University  M usical Society.................................................  846,711
Rosenstiel Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the Law   School...................................................  10,000
Alma Ruppenthal, Troy
2,031 shares of various corporate common stock and
1,118 units of Investment Company of America mutual fund
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School................. 75,158
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  13,970
Barry and Esther Sherman Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Community Endowment Fund,
San Francisco, California
for the Stefan S. Fajans Professorship in the Medical School......................... 51,000
Edward Simmons Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts in memory
of H arold  O sterw eil...........................................................  10,000
Solutia, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................  10,000
Sprint Foundation, Westwood, Kansas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.................. 20,000
Subaru Research & Development, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 20,000
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Palo Alto, California
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................  15,000
Jack D. Sweet, Richardson, Texas
for the Ralph W. Aigler Professorship in the Law School........................... 300,000
John P. Talbot, Ann Arbor
for support of the University of Michigan.........................................  20,000
Joyce Root Tedlow, Waban, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 10,000
Telcordia Technologies, Morristown, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000
W. Paul Tippett, Jr. Trust, Ann Arbor
for support of the University of M ichigan.........................................  20,000
John R. and Georgene M. Tozzi Foundation, Ross, California
for the Tozzi Center building fund in the School of Business Administration........... 500,000
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
for the Frank S. Moran Lectureship Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......... 10,000
Unova Foundation, Woodland Hills, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  10,000
Visteon Automotive System, Dearborn
for special events support at the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
the  University  of M ichigan-Dearborn............................................. 10,000
Harvey A. Wagner, Dearborn
350 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock
for the Harvey A. and Eleanor M. Wagner Fellowship in the College of Engineering...... 10,567
Michael P. Wellman, Ann Arbor
6,714 shares of Ariba, Inc., common stock
for the Wellman Endowment in the College of Engineering.......................... 26,359
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation, Federal Way, Washington
for the Weyerhaeuser Student Research Fellowships Fund in the School of
Natural Resources and Environment.............................................. 22,500
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 19,660
Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Arts of Citizenship  Program..............................................  10,000


310




May Meeting, 2002


Zenkel Foundation, White Plains, New York
for the Zenkel Minority Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 67,500
Roy H. Ziegler Trust
for endowment support in the Department of Athletics..............................  10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Alcoa Mill Products, Southfield
sheet metal for the Michigan Mars Rover Project
Maia lone Bergman, Westland
books for the University Library
Bold Furniture, Spring Lake
furniture for the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Wanda K. Capps, Ann Arbor
two photographs for the Museum of Art
Arthur Cohen, Beverly Hills, California
a painting by Lawrence Carroll for the Museum of Art
Margaret H. Coudron, Ypsilanti
74 works of African Art for the Museum of Art
Marvin Eisenberg, Ann Arbor
art work for the Museum of Art
John Humphrey, Portsmouth, Rhode Island
books and journals for the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
12 computers with software for the Center for the Education of Women
Paul L. Keyes, Ann Arbor
journal issues in medicine for the University Library
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
books for the Department of Classical Studies
Gerald Lotenberg, New York, New York
four photographs for the Museum of Art
Jean C. Lutterman, Potomac, Maryland
books and journals in social work for the University Library
Nora A. Maloy, Ann Arbor
books and journal issues for the University Library
Frederick and Nina Mayer, Ann Arbor
a sofa designed by Charles Eames for the Museum of Art
Russell Moy, Ann Arbor
periodical volumes for the Frances Willson Thompson Library
Laura B. G. Nathan, Ann Arbor
books of literature and sciences for the University Library
Ernestine Ruben, Princeton, New Jersey
8 photographs by Ernestine Ruben for the Museum of Art
Rebecca K. Ryan, Evanston, Illinois
a painting by Albert H. Krehbiel for the Museum of Art
Sybil L. Stokes, Princeton, New Jersey
a painting by Gerome Kamrowski for the Museum of Art
John N. Woodford, Ann Arbor
books, periodicals issues and other printed items for the University Library
Michaela Zint, Howell
books and periodicals issues in business and economics for the University Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
William R. Alexander, Ann Arbor             Steven Legel, Lincoln Park
Douglas D. Davies, Kalamazoo                Roselyn Leonard, Flint
Paola Davoli, Reggio Emilia, Italy          Robert E. Lewis, Ann Arbor
Elizabeth Donovan, Ann Arbor                Bruce Mannheim, Ann Arbor
Jennifer Gates, Atlanta, Georgia            Christopher Millio, Adrian
Edie N. Goldenberg, Ann Arbor               Motorola, Northville
William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor               Betty J. Murray, West Bloomfield
Lawrence A. Hirschfeld, Ann Arbor           Gerald E. Ottenbreit, Jr., Southgate
Sally Pyne Kennedy, Ann Arbor               Jeffrey W. Pearson, Berkley
Peter Lacovara, Atlanta, Georgia            Martin Powers, Ann Arbor


311




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


Personnel Actions. Interim Provost Courant submitted the personnel action items.
He noted that there are recommendations for three distinguished University professors,
which is the highest honor the University bestows on its faculty. He also called attention
to the appointment of Terrence McDonald as interim dean of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts. He will replace Dean Shirley Neuman, who has been appointed
provost at the University of Toronto.
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF PROFESSOR
AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 2002
A, _Afred Taubman College o Architecture and Urban Planning
Scobey, David M., from Associate Professor of Architecture, without tenure, to Associate Professor,
with tenure
School of Art and esign
Jackson, W. Shaun, from Associate Professor of Art, without tenure, to Associate Professor, with
tenure
Miller, Dennis, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, with tenure
Rodemer, C. Michael, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, with tenure
School of   siness Aministration
Lee, Fiona, from Assistant Professor of Business Administration to Associate Professor of
Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, with tenure
Shumway, Tyler, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure
School ofentistry
Giannobile, William V., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Ma, Peter X., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Wang, Cun-Yu, from Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, to Associate Professor, with
tenure
Wang, Hom-Lay, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Woolfolk, Marilyn, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
College oLfEngineering
Boyd, lain D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
Burns, Mark A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure
Hollister, Scott J., from Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure
Hu, Shixin Jack, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
Hulbert, Gregory M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
Jagadish, Hosagrahar V., from Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without
tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Jamin, Sugih, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure
Kieras, David E., from Associate Professor to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, and from Associate Professor to Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Michalowski, Radoslaw L., from Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, without tenure, to
Professor, with tenure
Pan, Xiaoqing, from Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, to
Associate Professor, with tenure
Scheeres, Daniel J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering,
without tenure
Sick, Volker, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, to Associate
Professor, with tenure
Wooldridge, Margaret S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
with tenure


312




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


Drabenstott, Karen M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Information, with tenure
Edwards, Paul N., from Associate Professor of Information, without tenure, to Associate Professor, with
tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Alcock, Susan E., from Associate Professor to Professor of Classical Archaeology and Classics, with
tenure
Aronson, Meigan C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, with tenure
Babayan, Kathryn, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Iranian History and Culture, with
tenure
Boccaccini, Gabriele, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Early Christianity, with
tenure
Carroll, Mary Anne, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, without tenure
Coppola, Brian, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Davies, Peter Ho, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature,
with tenure
Duan, Cunming, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and
Developmental Biology, with tenure
Epstein, Samuel David, from Associate Professor to Professor of Linguistics, with tenure
Franzese, Robert J., Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with
tenure
Gehring, William J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Gerdes, David W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Gutierrez, Lorraine M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, without tenure
Hayes, Jarrod, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of French, with tenure
Keizer, Arlene R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature,
with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, with tenure
Kennedy, Michael David, from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Kilian, Lutz, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure
Mannheim, Bruce, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
Maren, Stephen A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Martin, Karin A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and from
Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure
Mitani, John C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
Park, Albert, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure
Porter, David, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Comparative Literature, without
tenure
Puff, Helmut, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures,
with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure
Raithel, Georg A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Ramamoorthy, Ayyalusamy, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Renne, Elisha, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and from
Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure
Reuter-Lorenz, Patricia Ann, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Ruff, Larry J., from Associate Professor to Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure
Sellers, Robert M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Shryock, Andrew, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
Squatriti, Paolo, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and from
Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure
Tesar, Linda, from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, with tenure
Van Keken, Peter E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with
tenure
Verdesio, Gustavo, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure
Widner, Jennifer, from Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Young, Alford A., Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and
from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, with
tenure
Zimmerman, Marc A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, without tenure


313




May Meeting, 2002


Medical School
Anderson, Robert M., from Professor of Medical Education, without tenure, to Professor, with tenure
Baiter, James M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure
Biermann, Janet S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Brosius, Frank C., III, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
from Associate Professor to Professor of Physiology, without tenure
Cho, Kathleen R., from Associate Professor to Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure
Christman, Gregory M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, with tenure
Curtis, Jeffrey L., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
DiRita, Victor Joseph, from Associate Professor to Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with
tenure, Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, and from Associate Professor to Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, Department of Microbiology and Immunology
Elder, James T., from Associate Professor to Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of Radiation Oncology, without tenure
Farley, Frances A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Fink, John K., from Associate Professor to Professor of Neurology, with tenure
Glaser, Thomas M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure
Gumucio, Deborah L., from Associate Professor to Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with
tenure
Hogikyan, Norman D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with
tenure, Medical School, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, without
tenure, School of Music
Huffnagle, Gary B., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, to Associate
Professor, with tenure
Hurvitz, Edward A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, with tenure
Johnson, Mark W., from Associate Professor to Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with
tenure
Kuhn, John E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Lam, Kwok Leung, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, without
tenure
Lesperance, Marci M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with
tenure
MacDougald, Ormond A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure
Markel, Howard, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
with tenure, Medical School, and from Associate Professor to Professor of History, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Markovitz, David M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Martinez, Fernando J., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
McDonagh, Kevin T., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
Meador-Woodruff, James H., from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Pearlman, Mark D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure,
and from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, without tenure
Richardson, James K., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, with tenure
Robertson, Erle S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
with tenure
Ross, Brian D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiological Sciences, with tenure
Sagher, Oren, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, without tenure, and
from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, without tenure
Saint, Sanjay K., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Smith, Gary D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
without tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physiology, without
tenure
Soong, H. Kaz, from Associate Professor to Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with
tenure
Stern, David T., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Stuenkel, Edward L., from Associate Professor to Professor of Physiology, with tenure
Su, Grace L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Supiano, Mark A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure


314




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


Swanson, Michele S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, with tenure
Swaroop, Anand, from Associate Professor to Professor of Genetics, without tenure
Tate, Denise G., from Associate Professor to Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, with
tenure
Uhler, Michael D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure
Wechsler, Daniel, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure
Werner, Robert A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
with tenure, Medical School, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Environmental and
Industrial Health, without tenure, School of Public Health
Zubieta, Jon Kar, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and from
Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, without tenure
School of Music
Goodrich-Weng, Linda D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure
Mountain, Vincent A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, with
tenure
Nagel, Louis B., from Associate Professor to Professor of Music (Piano), with tenure
Petty, Wayne C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Music Theory), with
tenure
Walden, Donald, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Jazz Studies), with tenure
School of Natural Resources and Environment
Taylor, Dorceta E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Environmental Sociology, with
tenure, School of Natural Resources and Environment, and from Assistant Professor to Associate
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
School of Nir.ingg
Metzger, Bonnie L., From Associate Professor to Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Schwendeman, Steven P., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences,
with tenure
School of Public Health
Batterman, Stuart A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with
tenure
Lin, Xihong, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure
Lynch, John W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure
Murray, Susan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure
Parker, Edith A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health
Education, with tenure
Raghunathan, Trivellore, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure
Zellers, Edward T., from Associate Professor to Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with
tenure, School of Public Health, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Scoolo Social Wor
Hollingsworth, Leslie D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Yoshihama, Mieko, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure
UM-D e ar or Colle e    rtsScences, and Letters
Linker, Maureen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure
Spoiden, Stephane, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of French, with tenure
UM-Dearborn School o      cation
Donegan, Mary, from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Special Education,
with tenure
Killu, Kim, from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Special Education, with
tenure
Van Tiem, Darlene, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education, with tenure


315




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


UM-Dearborn School of Mnageent
Kocher, Claudia, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure
Steel, Robert, from Professor of Organizational Behavior, without tenure, to Professor, with tenure
UM-Flint College ofArts and Sciences
Barnes, Roy C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Gillespie, Carolyn M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Theatre, with tenure
Kietzman, Mary Jo, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, with tenure
Perry, Mark J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure
Ralston, Steven M., from Associate Professor of Communication, without tenure, to Associate
Professor, with tenure
Sucic, Joseph F., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
UlM-Fint School of Magement
Waddington, Barbara A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure
NEW, APPOINTMENTS ANID PROMO1(TIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RALNKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Chadiha, Letha, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, September 1, 2002
Larsen-Freeman, Diane, Ph.D., Professor of Education, School of Engineering, May 1, 2002
Wood, David P., Jr., M.D., Professor of Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2002
REAPPOINTM1ENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEvMIC ADMlINISTRATNI STAFF
Effective on the date indicated
Mosberg, Henry I., Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Education, College of Pharmacy,
April 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
JOINT APPOINTMENTS AOR TRANSFRS OF             REGULAR ASOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective on the dates indicated
Blum, Joel D., John D. MacArthur Professor of Geological Sciences and Professor of Geological
Sciences, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2009
Ceccio, Steven L., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, June 1, 2002-May 31, 2007
Dey, Eric L., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean, School of
Education, August 1, 2001-July 31, 2004
Gutek, Barbara A., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Women' s Studies, with
tenure, also appointed Director, Institute for Research on Women and Gender, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1, 2002-April 30, 2007
McDonald, Terrence J., Professor of History, with tenure, and Interim Chair, Department of History,
also appointed Interim Dean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002
Mirel, Jeffrey E., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of History,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Associate Dean,
School of Education, August 1, 2002-July 31, 2005
Roush, William R., Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Chemistry,
with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2007
Schultz, William W., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
June 1, 2002-May 31, 2007
Wallach, Willam K., Associate Director also appointed Acting Director, Bentley Historical Library,
May 1, 2002-August 31, 2003


316




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


Yaeger, Patricia S., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of English Language
and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
LEAVE OF ABSENCES FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTlED ACADEMIC AD1MINISTRATIVE STAFF.
Effective on the dates indicated
Caron, David, Associate Professor of French, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave extended, September 1-December 31, 2002
Chick, Stephen E., Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College
of Engineering, duty off campus extended, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2003
Kleiner, Bruce A., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus extended, September 1-December 31, 2002
Moy, Allen, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave extended, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2003
Stanton, Domna C., Elizabeth M. Douvan Collegiate Professor and Professor of Romance Languages
and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave
extended, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2003
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming Existing Collegiate Professorships
John H. D'Arms Collegiate Professorship in Classical Archaeology and Classics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, June 1, 2002
Margaret Davis Collegiate Professorship in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, June 1, 2002
Natalie Zemon Davis Collegiate Professorship in Sociology and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 1, 2002
Fred Newton Scott Collegiate Professorship in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1, 2002
Victor Weisskopf Collegiate Professorship in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1, 2002
John Jacob Abel Collegiate Professorship in the Life Sciences, Life Sciences Institute, June 1, 2002
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New.Appointments to Endowed Proessorships
Campbell, Darrell A., Jr., Henry King Ransom Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
June 1, 2002-May 31, 2007
Fenner,Dee E., Harold A. Furlong Professor of Women's Health, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30,
2007
Hart, Mitchell B., Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-April 30, 2003
New Appointments toDistituished Profesoshs
Saltiel, Alan R., John Jacob Abel Collegiate Professor in the Life Sciences, Life Sciences Institute,
June 1, 2002-May 31, 2007
Savageau, Michael A., Nicolas Rashevsky Distinguished University Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, Medical School, September 1, 2002
Sklar, Lawrence, Carl G. Hempel and William K. Frankena Distinguished University Professor of
Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002
Wise, Kensall E., Willam Gould Dow Distinguished University Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, College of Engineering, September 1, 2002
Reappointment to Established Professorship
Deardorff, Alan V., John W. Sweetland Professor of International Economics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2007


317




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


Other Transactions
Eley, Geoffrey H., Acting Director, Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2002
Herbert, Sharon C., Director, Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2002-June 30, 2007
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Advisory Board for Intercollegiate Athletics
Johnson, Stephanie, Student Representative, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003, vice Rebecca H. Kozlik, term
expired
Mandel, Maya, Student Representative, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004, vice Andrew D. Matthews, term
expired
Committee on Hqonorrry'Dg^ees
Brown, Tania G., Student Representative, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2004, vice Meghan M. Cherry,
term expired
Distinguished Aluni Servce Awad Selection Comittee
Peterson, Robert V., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003, vice J. Stephen Marshall, term expired
Gerald R. Ford Schol ofPublic Polic Executive ommittee
Gerber, Elisabeth, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004, vice Edie N. Goldenberg, term expired
Hines, James R., Jr., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004, vice Robert Axelrod, term expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Faller, Kathleen C., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Shirley A. Lockery, term expired
Ingersoll-Dayton, Berit, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Sandra K. Danziger, term expired
University o[fMichigan-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Economy, Stephen T., reappointed, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2006
Pepper, Jon, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2006, vice Yousif Ghafari, term expired
O'Brien, Timothy J., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2006, vice Geraldine Beldsoe Ford, term expired
Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Courant submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY A        tPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF tREGULAR INSTRUll      CTI )NAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Kenneth W., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30,
2003
Cronin, Paul P., B.A., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, April 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Daida, Jason M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Education, School of Education, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Desjardins, Benoit, Ph.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Javidan-Nejad, Javid, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Kim, Edsel U., M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Letcher, Abby S., M. D., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, January 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
McAllister-Lucas, Linda, Ph.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Nees, Alexis V., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30,
2003
Reischl, Catherine H., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education,
June 1, 2002-May 31, 2005
Seifman, Brian D., M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Soldes, Oliver S., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30,
2003
Wagner, Thomas W., M.S., Lecturer in Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, January 1-April 30, 2002


318




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


ADRMINISTRATIVEY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Davis, Matthew M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
March 1, 2002-February 28, 2003
Fischbach, Peter S., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases also appointed
Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School, February 1, 2002-January 31, 2003
Garton, Hugh J. L., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, Medical School,
April 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Hartmann, Joseph H., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
April 1, 2002-March 31, 2003
Lebovic, Dan, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
April 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
McIntosh, P. Elaine, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1,
2002
ADMINISTRATIVFLY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Efjfctive on the dates indicated
Brandwin, Marvin A., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, July 1, 2002
Lenaghan, Robert T., Professor Emeritus of English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2002
Margolis, Philip M., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPLRVE
LEAVES OF ABSEINCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alfred, Richard L., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Bernal, Luis P., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Boehnke, Michael L., Pharmacia and Upjohn Foundation Research Professor of Biostatistics and
Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Cain, Charles A., Richard A. Auhll Professor of Engineering, Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
with tenure, and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Cullen, Julianne B., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Dixon, Travis L., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
Eisbruch, Avraham, Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, March 1-August 31, 2002
Fleisher, David, Associate Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences, with tenure, College of Pharmacy,
duty off campus, May 1-August 31, 2002
Gano-Phillips, Susan K., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2002
Goldstein, Richard A., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, research leave, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2003
Helling, Robert B., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002, and retirement
furlough, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2003
Hsu, Jenny N., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, childcare leave,
April 29-May 31, 2002
Isom, Lori L., Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2001-August 31, 2002


319




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


Kieras, David E., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Kovalak, William P., Lecturer in Biology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
personal leave, May 1, 2002-April 30, 2003
Lempert, Lora B., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, scholarly activity leave, January 1-April 30, 2002
Martel, Mary K., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, July 1-December 31, 2000
Nooden, Larry D, Professor of Botany, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002, and retirement furlough, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2003
Oakley, Bruce, Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2002, and duty off campus January 1-May 31, 2003
Pierre, Christophe, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2001
Samra, Satwant K., Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 2002
Sowers, MaryFran R., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor
of Internal Medicine, without tenure, and Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without
tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Ulsoy, Galip, William Clay Ford Professor of Manufacturing and Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2002
Vaillant, Derek W., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2002
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Akers-Jordan, Cathy M., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 1, 2002
DeGroot, Frederick A., Lecturer in Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Art and Sciences,
May 1, 2002
Fessell, David P., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, April 6, 2002
Finn, Janet L., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, May 31, 2002
Hom, Darren B., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, April 30, 2002
Leicht, Leslie B., Clinical Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, April 30, 2002
Park, Jee-Hyun, Lecturer II in Korean, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2002
Platz, Stephanie S., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2002
Werns, Steven W., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, March 31,
2002
Retired
Axsom, Richard H., Professor of Art History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, April 30, 2002
Brown, Wesley M., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, and
Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2002
Finch, Jay S., Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure. College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 31, 2002
Gray, Walter S., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2002
Heidelberger, Kathleen P., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, April 30, 2002
Meyer, John F., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2002
Oakley, Deborah J., Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, May 31, 2002
Term Coimpee
Bowen, Eugene J., Lecturer in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31,
2001
Kittay, Michael J., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, March 2, 2002


320




May Meeting, 2002


Teichroew, Daniel, Professor Emeritus of Industrial Engineering, College of Engineering, December 31,
2001
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for 24 retiring
faculty members, including former deans Robert Beckley and Paul Boylan.
Richard H. Axsom, Ph.D., professor of art history in the College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status
on April 30, 2002.
Professor Axsom received his B.A. degree in French literature (1965), his M.A.
degree in the history of art (1969), and his Ph.D. degree in the history of art (1974), all
from the University of Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty
as an instructor of art history in 1973. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1975,
associate professor in 1980, and professor in 1986.
Professor Axsom has published extensively in modern and contemporary art. He
is the author of eight definitive books on the prints of several artists of this genre,
including Frank Stella, Ellsworth Kelly, and Claes Oldenburg. Professor Axsom has
organized exhibitions in major museums of art, including the Whitney Museum of Art and
the Tretiakov State Gallery in Moscow. In 1998, he organized a retrospective exhibition
of the prints of the American pop artist, Claes Oldenburg, at the Detroit Institute of Arts.
Professor Axsom's book for this show, Printed Stuff: Prints, Posters, and Ephemera by
Claes Oldenburg, A Catalogue Raissone, 1958-1996, co-authored with David Platzker,
won the George Wittenborn Memorial Book Award.
In 1992, the Seniors Program awarded Professor Axsom the Distinguished
Teaching Award. He is also a professional art advisor for private collectors and for
corporations, including Domino's Pizza, Royal Maccabees Life Insurance Company, and
American Airlines.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Richard H. Axsom
professor emeritus of art history.
Robert M. Beckley, professor of architecture and urban planning and former dean
of the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Professor Beckley received a B.S. degree in architecture from the University of
Cincinnati in 1959 and an M.A. degree in architecture from Harvard University in 1961. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1963 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1965.  Professor Beckley joined the University of Wisconsin,
Milwaukee faculty in 1968 and returned to the University of Michigan in 1987 as professor
of architecture and urban planning and dean of the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning. He served as dean until 1997.
Under his leadership, the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning expanded its presence across the globe. International programs, research, and
scholarly contributions grew in their diversity, and the student body broadened to include
individuals from nearly every continent. Professor Beckley has done research for the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development, the U.S. Department of Transportation, and
the National Endowment for the Arts. He also conducted research for Milwaukee's economic
development department and was a consultant to other civic and corporate organizations,
including Ann Arbor's State Street redevelopment project. Professor Beckley was president
of the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture, a member of the executive
committee of the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) executive committee,


321




May Meeting, 2002


and represented the NAAB at more than 20 architectural program reviews and conferences
setting educational standards. He also served on the University of Michigan Advisory
Committee on Campus Planning from 1997-99 and the White House Council on Design from
1997-2000.
Professor Beckley was elected to the College of Fellows of the American Institute of
Architects in 1985 and the Urban Design Institute in 1990. His architectural firm has won a
number of awards and won a national competition for design of a downtown park for the City
of Bellevue, Washington.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Robert M. Beckley
professor emeritus of architecture and urban planning and dean emeritus of the A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.
Paul C. Boylan, Ph.D., professor of music and former dean of the School of Music,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Born in Portage, Wisconsin, Professor Boylan received his B.Mus. and M.Mus.
degrees from the University of Wisconsin in 1961 and 1962, respectively, and his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Michigan in 1968. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an instructor in 1965 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1969,
associate professor in 1972, and professor in 1977. He also served as director of the
University Division of the National Music Camp at Interlochen from 1971-75, associate
dean of the School of Music from 1974-79, and dean of the School of Music from
1979-2000. He was appointed vice provost for the arts in 1993, a position he held until
2000.
In addition to his teaching and leadership roles within the School of Music and the
University, Professor Boylan was active in a number of professional associations,
including the American Federation of Music Clubs, American Musicological Society,
International Council of Fine Arts Deans, Michigan Music Teachers Association, Music
Educators National Conference, Music Teachers National Association, National
Association of Schools of Music, and Society for Music Theory. He served as a
consultant to state boards of higher education in Louisiana, New York, Ohio, Texas,
Wisconsin, and 27 sister institutions of higher education.
Professor Boylan is a visionary thinker who has served the University of Michigan
with loyalty and distinction. He was an avid supporter and promoter of the development
of faculty members as artists, teachers, and scholars. Through his tireless efforts and
total dedication, the School of Music was able to attract the most talented and committed
students and to establish endowments for gifted students who otherwise would not have
been able to enjoy the advantages of a University of Michigan education.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Paul C. Boylan dean
emeritus and professor emeritus of music.
Wesley M. Brown, Ph.D., professor of molecular, cellular, and developmental
biology and professor of ecology and evolutionary biology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
A native of Denver, Colorado, Professor Brown received his B.A. (1963) and M.A.
(1967) degrees from the University of Colorado and his Ph.D. degree in 1976 from the
California Institute of Technology. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1980
as a visiting assistant professor of biology. He was promoted to associate professor in
1983 and professor in 1989. Professor Brown also served as associate curator (1983-89)


322




May Meeting, 2002


and curator (1989-98) of the Museum of Zoology and associate chair (1989-91) and chair
(1991-96) of the biology department.
Professor Brown was a founding member of the research field that uses DNA to
identify individuals and infer relationships between individuals and species. In 1974,
while still in graduate school, he published a seminal paper that led to a revolution
whose ramifications are still being realized today. Professor Brown subsequently went
on to use his own innovation to make many substantial discoveries in the field of
evolution and systematics.
Professor Brown was elected president of the Society of Molecular Biology and
Evolution in 1995. He has also served on numerous scientific committees and editorial
boards.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Wesley M. Brown
professor emeritus of molecular, cellular, and developmental biology and professor
emeritus of ecology and evolutionary biology.
Edna A. Coffin, Ph.D., professor of modern Hebrew in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and research scientist in the Center for Research on Learning and
Teaching, will retire from active faculty service on May 31, 2002.
Born in Haifa, Israel, Professor Coffin began her early years of education at the
HaRe'ali school in Haifa. She received her B.A. degree from the University of
in 1970 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1971, associate professor in 1976,
and professor in 1983. In 1987, Professor Coffin was appointed research scientist in the
Center for Research on Learning and Teaching. She was the director of the Program in
Judaic Studies from 1983-87 and held an Arthur H. Thurnau Professorship from 1988-91.
Professor Coffin is a scholar of great creativity and industry. Her doctoral
dissertation was an analysis of the medieval Hebrew grammarian Ibn Janah, but she
taught modern Israeli language and literature. Her instructional activities ranged from
teaching courses in literary analysis to creating an interactive video program on modern
Hebrew  sponsored  by  IBM.    In  addition, Professor Coffin  produced  four
computer-assisted, language-learning instructional units for modern Hebrew that are
widely used in this country and abroad. She has also made valuable contributions to the
teaching of Hebrew language, literature, and culture through her five Hebrew language
textbooks and through numerous articles in academic journals.
Professor Coffin commands tremendous respect internationally as a true
teacher-scholar for her pioneering work in instructional technology and for her
development of numerous multimedia applications for foreign language instruction. By
collaborating with colleagues in multiple disciplines from around the world, she
embodies the traditional spirit of collegiality. Over the years she has been a support to
her colleagues in their academic endeavors inside and outside her department.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Edna A. Coffin professor
emerita of modern Hebrew and research scientist emerita.
Gwendolyn E. Davidge, associate librarian, retired from active faculty status on
January 11, 2002.
A native of Michigan, Ms. Davidge earned her B.A. degree from Ohio Wesleyan
University in 1963 and her M.A. and M.L.S. degrees from the University of Michigan in
1968 and 1970, respectively. From 1963-67 she taught in public schools. She joined the


323




May Meeting, 2002


University Library in 1970 as an assistant librarian and was promoted to associate
librarian in 1973.
From 1970-80, Ms. Davidge served as the undergraduate library acquisitions
librarian. In this role she provided reference service to both students and faculty and
selected books for addition to the collection. In 1981, Ms. Davidge was named the
graduate library coordinator of the reference department. At a time when on-line
databases were rapidly expanding, she successfully planned and implemented their
integration into the department. During this time, her contributions to the research
collection included selection of material in the areas of education and European history.
In 1986, Ms. Davidge assumed the role of head of serial services (formerly serial
services and records). She managed a service desk that provided access to current
periodicals and newspapers and check-in of serials. Ms. Davidge displayed a deep
sense of responsibility for maintaining the accurate and detailed holdings required of
records in serial services.
Through her dedication to professional excellence, her broad knowledge of the
library and its collections, her reference and selection roles, and her management of a
significant serial collection, holding, and records, Lyn Davidge contributed significantly
to the University Library and to the campus.
The Regents salute this distinguished librarian by naming Gwendolyn E. Davidge
associate librarian emerita.
Donald R. Deskins, Ph.D., professor of urban geography and sociology in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May
31, 2002.
A native of Brooklyn, New York, Professor Deskins earned his B.A., M.A., and
Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1960, 1963, and 1971, respectively. In
1968, Professor Deskins joined the University of Michigan as a lecturer. He was
promoted to assistant professor of geography in 1970, associate professor in 1973, and
professor in 1979. When the Department of Geography was discontinued in 1982,
Professor Deskins joined the Department of Sociology as professor of urban geography
and sociology. He served as associate chair (1973), acting chair (1974), and chair
(1975-79) of the geography department and as associate dean of the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies (1979-86). From 1988-92 he was director of the graduate
studies program for the sociology department.
In his highly productive career, Professor Deskins made important scholarly
contributions to our understanding of racial dynamics in American society. His research
spans such diverse topics as residential segregation, the construction of urban space,
racial factors in site location and employment patterns, economic restructuring and teen
pregnancy, and changing higher educational opportunities for minority graduate students.
In addition, Professor Deskins produced numerous reports on community and economic
development commissioned by the National Academy of Sciences and state and local
governments.
A demanding but compassionate mentor, Professor Deskins guided countless
doctoral students, many from historically under-represented backgrounds, to the
successful completion of their degrees. Furthermore, he continually injects the drama of
the human experience into his classroom. His undergraduate course on sports and
society, infused with his own life stories as an athlete, remains one of the sociology


324




May Meeting, 2002


department's most popular offerings. For his superior accomplishments, Professor
Deskins received numerous University and national awards and honors.
The Regents now salute this distinguished and multi-talented scholar, teacher, and
colleague by naming Donald R. Deskins professor emeritus of urban geography and
sociology.
Jay S. Finch, M.D., professor of anesthesiology in the Medical School, retired from
active faculty status on January 31, 2002.
Dr. Finch attended the University of Michigan as an undergraduate from 1954-57, at
which point he entered the University of Michigan Medical School, where he received
his M.D. degree in 1961. He served his internship and residency in general surgery at St.
Joseph Mercy Hospital in Ann Arbor from 1961-63 and his residency in anesthesiology
at the University of Michigan Hospital from 1963-65. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty in 1965 as an instructor in anesthesiology. He was promoted to assistant
professor in 1968, associate professor in 1971, and professor in 1975. Dr. Finch also
served as the interim chair (1986) and chair (1987-89) of the Department of
Anesthesiology.
Dr. Finch's research focused primarily on the areas of pulmonary physiology and
mechanical ventilation.  In 1982, he developed a medical student laboratory in
respiratory physiology to provide medical students with practical experience in
pulmonary and cardiovascular physiology during their rotation on the anesthesiology
service.   He  also  developed  anesthesiology  self-instructional slide-tape  and
videocassette programs for medical students to use during their anesthesia clinical
clerkship. Dr. Finch created and directed the respiratory therapy unit within the
University of Michigan's anesthesiology department and was instrumental in establishing
the first respiratory care fellowship, which became the current Critical Care Medicine
Fellowship.
Dr. Finch's expertise in the art of respiratory therapy was recognized nationally by
appointments to the editorial board of Respiratory Therapy and as a consultant panel
member of the National Board of Respiratory Care. He served on numerous Medical
School and hospital committees and chaired many involved in respiratory care issues. Dr.
Finch was instrumental in starting the School of Respiratory Therapy at Washtenaw
Community College and served as its assistant medical director and medical director.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health care educator by naming Jay S.
Finch professor emeritus of anesthesiology.
Walter S. Gray, Ph.D., associate professor of physics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Professor Gray received his B.S. (1958) and M.S. (1960) degrees from Oklahoma
State University and his Ph.D. degree (1964) from the University of Colorado. He joined
the University of Michigan Department of Physics in 1964 as a research associate and
was appointed instructor in 1965. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1966 and
associate professor in 1970.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, Professor Gray, together with Professors Tickle,
Bardwick and Parkinson, developed a high-resolution magnetic spectrometer for use with
the University of Michigan's 82-inch cyclotron using the so-called "dispersion-matching"
technique. This cyclotron was one of the few in the world capable of high-resolution
nuclear spectroscopy. Professor Gray and his students made a major improvement to the
spectrometer by developing a position-sensitive, silicon-diode, focal-plane detector array,


325




May Meeting, 2002


which permitted electronic acquisition and analysis. Several University of Michigan
doctoral students used this array to study in detail the characteristics of deformed nuclei,
verifying the "collective model" of nuclei proposed by Benjamin Mottelson and Aage Bohr.
Professor Gray served on the Rackham Divisional Board for the Physical Sciences
(1973-74) and the executive committee of the Indiana University Cyclotron Facility
users' group (1980-82). In 1978, he received a University of Michigan Rackham Faculty
Grant, and he was awarded the Literature, Science, and the Arts Ruth Sinclair Award for
Freshman-Sophomore Counseling in 1988. Most notably, he received the Literature,
Science, and the Arts Excellence in Education Award three years in a row (1992-1994).
The Regents salute this distinguished teacher and scholar by naming Walter S. Gray
associate professor emeritus of physics.
Lorna M. Haywood, professor of music (voice) in the School of Music, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Professor Haywood received an A.R.C.M. degree in 1959 from the Royal College
of Music in London and furthered her training at the Juilliard School of Music from
1961-65. Professor Haywood joined the faculty at the University of Michigan School of
Music in 1982 as professor of music.
On both sides of the Atlantic, critics have lavished their praise on the concert and
operatic appearances of Professor Haywood. She has sung with most of America's major
symphony orchestras, performed with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, London
Philharmonic Orchestra, and the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic, and appeared in numerous
summer festivals including Meadowbrook, Tanglewood, Cincinnati, Aldenburgh, and
Edinburgh. She also sang with the Handel Society in Washington, D.C., with Music of the
Baroque in Chicago, and she was soprano soloist with the Bach Aria Group for two years.
Professor Haywood performed with many major opera companies in the U.S. and in
Europe, including the Chicago Lyric Opera, the Dallas Civic Opera, the Royal Opera
House, and the English National Opera. Regarded as a leading interpreter of the operas of
Leos Janacek, she has sung this repertory around the globe.  Her recordings include
Wagner's Die Feen with the B.B.C. Symphony Orchestra, Mozart's Requiem with Amor
Atris, Paul Paray's Grammy-nominated Joan of Arc Mass with the Royal Scottish National
Symphony Orchestra and Chorus, and the Grammy-winning performance of Benjamin
Britten's War Requiem with Robert Shaw.
Professor Haywood has been conscientious, hard working, loyal, and dedicated to
making the University of Michigan a special place in which to study and learn, and she is
considered one of the leading vocal teachers here and abroad. Her students, colleagues,
and audiences have revered her with good cause.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Loma M. Haywood
professor emerita of music (voice).
Kathleen P. Heidelberger, M.D., professor of pathology in the Medical School,
retired from active status on April 30, 2002.
A native of New Jersey, Dr. Heidelberger received her B.S. degree (1961) from
College Misericordia in Pennsylvania and her M.D. degree (1965) from the Women's
Medical College of Pennsylvania. In 1970, Dr. Heidelberger joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan as an instructor. She was promoted to assistant professor in
1973, associate professor in 1976, and professor in 1979.
Dr. Heidelberger has demonstrated a commitment to excellence throughout her
career, especially in pediatric pathology and resident education within the pathology,


326




May Meeting, 2002


pediatrics, and surgery departments. She participated in the instruction of medical
students in the areas of pediatric pathology and general surgical pathology, in the training
of house officers and fellows in pediatric pathology, and in counseling fourth-year
students in clerkships in pathology. She represented the pathology department on several
committees related to her expertise, including her ongoing affiliation with the
Mott/Women's/Holden executive committee. During her tenure, she was appointed as
director of the Clinical Immunology Laboratory (1970-75), a member of the University of
Michigan Cancer Center (1986), and a panelist on the Career Development Fund for
Women Faculty (1996).
Dr. Heidelberger has served on numerous committees as a member of the Society
for Pediatric Pathology. She was also a member of the United States and Canadian
Academy of Pathology, the Michigan Society of Pathologists, the College of American
Pathologists, and the American Association of Medical Colleges. She was honored by
being selected for membership in the Alpha Omega Alpha Medical Honor Society and by
receiving the Janet M. Glasgow Award of the American Medical Women's Association,
the George C. Wilkins Fellowship in Cancer Pathology, and the Mother Mary Catherine
McGann Alumni Achievement Award.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician and faculty member by naming
Kathleen P. Heidelberger professor emerita of pathology.
Alan B. Howes, Ph.D., professor of English language and literature in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31,
2002.
Professor Howes received his B.A. (1941) and M.A. (1943) degrees from
Middlebury College and his Ph.D. degree in 1955 from Yale University. He taught at
Middlebury College from 1943-45 and then served in the U.S. Army (1945-47) and the
U.S. Civil Service (1947-48) in Japan. From 1950-51, he taught at the University of
Connecticut in Hartford, and from 1951-53 he was a guest professor at the Yokohama
National University. Professor Howes joined the faculty of the faculty of the University of Michigan as
an instructor in 1955. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1958, associate
professor in 1964, and professor in 1969.
In his scholarly work and in his teaching, Professor Howes pursued two main
tracks: eighteenth-century fiction and pedagogy with a special focus on language and
composition. His major scholarly contributions in these areas include authoring Yorick
and the Critics: Laurence Sterne's Reputation in England, 1760-1868 and The Critical
Heritage Series: Laurence Sterne and co-editing The Norton Reader. Professor Howes'
commitment to pedagogy, in particular, is reflected in the courses and programs he
participated in: the Professional Semester, which is an intensive introduction to the
English concentration for aspiring high school teachers, and the New England literature
program, which he co-directed from 1975-90. Within the Department of English
Language and Literature, Professor Howes served as the undergraduate chair, director of
the Doctor of Arts program, and head of undergraduate counseling. He was deeply
involved with the undergraduate curriculum, first-year writing, and the joint program in
English and education.
Professor Howes served as a reader for college board examinations, wrote test
items for the Educational Testing Service, and was a consultant for Michigan high
schools and National Public Radio's "Performance Today." In 1977, he received the
University's Amoco Good Teaching Award.


327




May Meeting, 2002


The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Alan B. Howes
professor emeritus of English language and literature.
Jerold D. Lax, J.D., associate professor of urban planning in the A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 2002.
Professor Lax received his B.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1963
and his J.D. degree from Harvard Law School in 1966. He passed the bar in 1967 and
then returned to Michigan to practice law. From 1969-70 Professor Lax served as city
attorney for Ann Arbor, and in 1974 he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as
an assistant professor of urban planning. He was promoted to associate professor in
1977. Professor Lax is also a partner in the law firm of Bodman, Longley & Dahling.
Civil litigation, land use planning, municipal government, and employment law are
Professor Lax's areas of specialty. During his time at the University, Professor Lax has
taught many excellent courses in these areas, including: "Legal Aspects of the Planning
Process," a required course covering broad issues for students earning a master of urban
planning degree; "Contemporary Legal Developments," a seminar covering many specific
issues for planners such as dispute resolution and comparative planning law; and an
excellent course on legal aspects of urban planning that provides resources and knowledge
which students reference throughout their careers. His work in conflict resolution at the
state level and his law practice in Ann Arbor have made him a valuable asset to the
program at the University.
Professor Lax's highly visible commitment to public service is reflected in the long
list of organizations where he served as a board member: the Performance Network, the
Washtenaw Jewish Foundation, Temple Beth Emeth, and the public corporation law
section of the State Bar of Michigan. His professional activities include serving as a
mediator for the Washtenaw County Circuit Court and as an arbitrator for the American
Arbitration Association and the Michigan Employment Relations Commission. In
addition, he was chair of the Michigan Civil Service Commission's Employment
Relations Board and is a member of the Michigan State Bar's Attorney Discipline Board
Hearing Panel.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Jerold D. Lax
associate professor emeritus of urban planning.
James H. McIntosh, Ph.D., professor of English language and literature and
American culture in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Professor McIntosh received his B.A. degree from Harvard University in 1955 and
his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Yale University in 1959 and 1966, respectively.
Professor McIntosh taught at Tufts University from 1962-67 and at Yale University from
1967-75. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an associate professor in 1975
and was promoted to professor in 1989.
From the start, Professor McIntosh's scholarship was distinguished by an ambition
to focus on major writers of the American renaissance and to offer his own perspective
on a body of literature that had already received a good deal of attention. Based on his
research, Professor McIntosh wrote several rich and subtle essays on Emerson,
Hawthorne, and Melville and a major book, Thoreau as Romantic Naturalist: His
Shifting Stance Toward Nature. In 1987, Professor McIntosh edited the Norton Critical


328




May Meeting, 2002


edition of Nathaniel Hawthorne's Tales, and in 2000 his singularly original study,
Nimble Believing: Dickinson and the Unknown, was published.
Professor McIntosh steadfastly demonstrated his willingness to place his intellectual
skills and conscientious judgment at the service of both the English department and the
Program in American Culture. During his tenure at the University of Michigan, he
pioneered courses in North/South American literatures, and he served the Program in
American Culture as one of its most distinguished and longest-serving directors from
1984-91. In those years, Professor McIntosh helped to lay the foundations for the
Latino/a Studies Program, which later achieved national stature. Professor McIntosh also
served on the graduate admissions committee and many hiring and tenure committees for
the Program in American Culture.
Professor McIntosh' s appreciation of and respect for English literature and for
world culture is much admired and appreciated by his students and colleagues. He has
been a valued and superb mentor to all who brought him their questions and their
manuscripts.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming James H. McIntosh
professor emeritus of English language and literature and American culture.
Frances K. McSparran, Ph.D., associate professor of English language and literature
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 2002.
Professor McSparran received her B.A. degree with honors in English language and
literature from the Queen's University of Belfast in 1958. From 1962-67 she taught at the
Queen's University of Belfast, and she earned her B.Litt. degree from Oxford University
in 1965. In 1968, Professor McSparran joined the University of Michigan as a lecturer
and as an assistant editor of the Middle English Dictionary. She was promoted to
research editor of the Middle English Dictionary in 1971, earned her Ph.D. degree from
the Queen's University in 1973, and was promoted to associate professor at the
University of Michigan in 1974.
In her career at the University, Professor McSparran made truly extraordinary
service contributions in directing the summer program at Oxford University and in her
administrative and academic contributions to the completion of the Middle English
Dictionary. Her scholarship is characterized by painstaking primary research with the
manuscripts of the Middle English period, her care and penetrating analysis as
lexicographer and editor, and her innovative work in producing the electronically-based
Middle English Compendium.
She is internationally well known as a preeminent scholar of Middle English, and she
published the highly regarded Octovian Imperator and Octovian. Professor McSparran
commands the respect, admiration, and affection of the many undergraduate and graduate
students with whom she shared her love of Old and Middle English. Her rigor and
enthusiasm made her a most distinguished teacher.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Frances K. McSparran
associate professor emerita of English language and literature.
John F. Meyer, Ph.D., professor of electrical engineering and computer science in
the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Professor Meyer received his B.S. degree from the University of Michigan (1957),
his M.S. degree from Stanford University (1958), and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan (1967). He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1967 as


329




May Meeting, 2002


assistant professor of electrical engineering, College of Engineering, and in 1968 was
also appointed assistant professor of communication sciences, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts. He was promoted to associate professor of computer engineering
and associate professor of computer and communication sciences in 1971 and professor
in both departments in 1976. In 1984, his title changed to professor of electrical
engineering and computer science, College of Engineering.
Professor Meyer's research focused on fault-tolerant computing. He is best known
for his introduction of the concept of performability, which has since become an
important measure of the quality of fault-tolerant systems. He was named a fellow of the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) in 1985 for his contributions to
the theory of fault-tolerant computing. Professor Meyer was also director of the
University's Systems Engineering Laboratory (1971-72 and 1980-81) and Computing
Research Laboratory (1984-89).
Among Professor Meyer's honors are a NASA Inventions and Contributions Award
(1964), the 1938E Distinguished Service Award (1973), the Meritorius Service Award
(1985), the Certificate of Appreciation (1995), and Golden Core membership (1996)
from the IEEE Computer Society. He served two terms on the IEEE Computer Society's
Board of Governors and was chair of its technical committee on fault-tolerant computing.
He was active in the International Federation for Information Processing (IFIP) and
received the Silver Core Award from its general assembly for his service to IFIP
Working Group 10.4 (Dependable Computing and Fault Tolerance). He has one United
States patent and one international patent disclosure.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming John F. Meyer professor
emeritus of electrical engineering and computer science.
Deborah J. Oakley, Ph.D., professor of nursing in the School of Nursing, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Professor Oakley received her B.A. degree (1958) from Swarthmore College, her
M.A. degree (1960) from Brown University, and her M.P.H. (1969) and Ph.D. (1977)
degrees from the University of Michigan. She served as a research assistant from
1964-77 before joining the faculty in 1977 as an assistant professor of community health
in the School of Public Health and faculty associate in the East Asian Studies Center. She
moved to the School of Nursing as assistant professor of nursing in 1979 and was
promoted to associate professor in 1981 and professor in 1989.
Professor Oakley introduced research-relevant information technology into course
activities; developed and taught doctoral seminars on nursing and health policy,
globalization, culture, and women's health; and was a major contributor to improving the
quality of undergraduate research at the University. She worked with colleagues to
introduce more accurate measurement methods into the study of oral contraceptive use
and to study maternity care, and she made a persuasive case for more sophisticated
analytic techniques in this field. Within the University, Professor Oakley has served as a
member of the Institutional Review Board, the research committee for the UMHS Center
of Excellence in Women's Health, the University Health Service Periodic Health
Appraisal Unit, and the School of Nursing Executive Committee. More broadly, she has
chaired the population and family planning section of the American Public Health
Association and served as interim director of the Center for Nursing Research. She has
also held visiting faculty positions at The Johns Hopkins University, University of
California-San Francisco, and Peking University in Beijing, China.


330




May Meeting, 2002


The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Deborah J. Oakley professor
emerita of nursing.
Donald R. Peacor, Ph.D., professor of geological sciences in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Professor Peacor completed his B.Sc. degree at Tufts University in 1958 and his
Ph.D. at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1962. Professor Peacor was hired as a
lecturer in the Department of Mineralogy at the University of Michigan in 1963, and he
was promoted to associate professor in 1967. In 1974, he received an appointment to
professor.
Professor Peacor' s early research focused on the crystallography of rock-forming
minerals. He designed and built a device for structure refinements of crystals at high
temperature and evaluated phase transitions in situ for important compounds such as
anorthite and cristobalite. Professor Peacor also described a very large number of new
minerals over the years, and he has been deeply involved with research using
transmission electron microscopy. Working with graduate students, he completed many
important studies on the structures, textures, and reaction histories of low-temperature
minerals, principally clay minerals, oxides, and carbonates. Professor Peacor also
examined the structural and chemical changes in magnetic oxides from sea floor basalts to
gain a deeper understanding of the causes of ocean floor magnetic anomalies. From
the University of Michigan. Under his leadership this facility grew markedly both in
usage and the breadth of instrumental capabilities.
Professor Peacor is well remembered to generations of geology majors for his
engaging teaching style, especially in his Mineralogy 231 class, and for famous field trips
each fall to mineral collecting localities in Ontario.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Donald R. Peacor
professor emeritus of geological sciences.
John Griffiths Pedley, Ph.D., professor of classical archaeology and Greek in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May
31, 2002.
Professor Pedley received his B.A. degree and his M.A. degree from Cambridge
University in 1954 and 1959, respectively. In 1965, after spending a year as a fellow at
the American School of Classical Studies in Athens, Professor Pedley earned his Ph.D.
degree from Harvard University. He then came to the University of Michigan as assistant
professor in 1965. He was promoted to associate professor in 1968 and to professor in
1974.
Professor Pedley's scholarship centers mainly on Greek art and architecture during
the archaic and classical periods. His work is very tightly connected with his extensive
excavations in various Greek or Greco-Roman sites: Sardis in Turkey, Apollonia in
Libya, Carthage in Tunisia, and Paestum in southern Italy. These excavations provided
him with a basis for the original observations that illuminate his important and frequently
translated book on Greek art and archaeology and his forthcoming book on sanctuaries
and sacred ritual in Greece. Professor Pedley also wrote and co-wrote nine other books
of a more specialized character and many articles and reviews.
Professor Pedley was acting chair of the Department of Classical Studies from
1971-72, and he served as chair of the graduate program in classical art and archaeology
from  1971-82 and as director of the Kelsey Museum   of Ancient and Medieval


331




May Meeting, 2002


Archaeology from 1973-86. Professor Pedley is the recipient of numerous honors,
including several grants from the National Endowments for the Arts and for the
Humanities. He received the University's Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in
1978, the Julia Lockwood Award in 1994, and the Warner G. Rice Humanities Award as
distinguished senior lecturer in 1996-97.  He was an associate of Clare Hall at
Cambridge University in 1980 and a visiting scholar in 1986; he was also a resident in
archaeology at the American Academy in Rome in 1990 and a visiting scholar there in
1995.
The Regents salute this faculty member by naming John Griffiths Pedley professor
emeritus of classical archaeology and Greek.
Friedrich K. Port, M.D., professor of internal medicine in the Medical School and
professor of epidemiology in the School of Public Health, retired from active faculty
status on February 28, 2002.
A native of Heidelberg, West Germany, Dr. Port received his Physikum (1961)
and M.D. (1964) degrees from the University of Erlangen-Nurnberg in West Germany,
and his M.S. degree from the University of Minnesota in 1975. He pursued training as
an intern and resident from 1964-70 and completed a fellowship in nephrology at the
Mayo Graduate School in 1972. From 1973-74, he headed the dialysis unit at the
University of Mainz in West Germany. He joined the University of Michigan as assistant
professor of internal medicine and chief of the hemodialysis unit at the Veterans
Administration Medical Center in 1974 and was promoted to associate professor in
1978 and professor in 1987. He received the additional appointment of professor of
epidemiology in the School of Public Health in 1989.
Dr. Port is a prominent member of the renal research community with a national and
international reputation for outcomes research. His contributions include the comparative
assessment of mortality risk for dialysis patients versus transplant recipients.  His
groundbreaking studies minimized patient selection bias and time-to-treatment bias while
describing the changing mortality risk over time after transplantation. His work was also
instrumental in evaluating mortality risk by various treatment factors. The research efforts
of his team at the University of Michigan Kidney Epidemiology and Cost Center influenced
the practice in end-stage renal disease and led to a measurable improvement in patient care
and survival in the U.S.
Dr. Port served as the director of the Michigan Kidney Registry and the medical
director of the U.S. Renal Data Systems (USRDS) Coordinating Center, and he is
currently vice president of the International Federation of Renal Registries. He led the
clinical design of the USRDS special studies and the questionnaires for each of these
studies. He has received the Best Physician in America award, the Best Teacher in
Nephrology award, and the Donald W. Seldin award.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician, researcher, and educator for
his dedicated service by naming Friedrich K. Port professor emeritus of internal
medicine and professor emeritus of epidemiology.
H. Robert Reynolds, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, director of University bands and
professor of conducting in the School of Music, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 2002.
Professor Reynolds received his B.M.E. and M.M. degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1956 and 1958, respectively.  He taught music at California State
University-Long Beach, from 1962-68, and from 1968-75 he was professor of music and


332




May Meeting, 2002


director of bands at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. Professor Reynolds joined
the University of Michigan faculty in 1975 as professor of music and director of
University bands. He was appointed the Arthur F. Thurnau Professor in 1999.
During his tenure at the University of Michigan, Professor Reynolds conducted the
Michigan bands in the premiere of an opera for La Scala Opera (Milan) and in concerts at
the Maggio Musicale (Florence), the Tonhalle (Zurich), and the Concertgebouw
(Amsterdam) as part of the 750th anniversary of the City of Berlin. He also served as a
lecturer in the School of Education, director of the Division of Instrumental Studies, chair
of the conducting department, and member of the School of Music Executive Committee.
For the past 20 years, Professor Reynolds has conducted the Detroit Chamber
Winds and Strings. He is also past president of the College Band Directors' National
Association and the Big Ten Band Directors' Association, and he has been a guest
conductor/clinician at leading universities and conferences concerning the conducting,
rehearsing, and analysis of masterpieces of band and wind ensemble repertoire
throughout the US. He was a featured lecturer and conductor at several international
conferences of the World Association of Symphonic Bands and Ensembles, conducted
recordings for Koch International Pro Arte, Caprice, and Deutsche Gammophone, and
was the first American to conduct the famed Kongelige Musikkorps Koncerfond (Royal
Danish Band) of Copenhagen. He received a special tribute from the State of Michigan
for his contributions and a national award from the American Association of Composers,
Authors, and Publishers for his dedication to the performance of American music.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming H. Robert Reynolds director
emeritus of University bands and professor emeritus of conducting.
David 0. Ross, Jr., Ph.D., professor of Greek and Latin in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Professor Ross received his B.A. degree from Yale University in 1958 and his M.A.
and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard in 1962 and 1966, respectively. His career began as
assistant professor in the department of classics at Yale in 1966, and in 1971 he was
promoted to associate professor. Professor Ross joined the University of Michigan's
department of classical studies as a visiting associate professor of Greek and Latin in
1974. The following year he started his appointment as associate professor at the
University of Michigan, and he was promoted to professor in 1980.
Professor Ross's scholarly interests were mainly in the area of Latin poetry,
especially of the period from the end of the Roman Republic to the early years of the
Empire. This was an exciting period in which Roman poets revolutionized verse by
introducing sophisticated, often introspective motifs drawn from Greek Hellenistic
poetry, while simultaneously drawing on one another for inspiration. Through his precise
analysis of surviving texts, Professor Ross firmly established the main lines of this poetic
revolution. His two major books concern the poetry of Catullus in relation to his
predecessors and the instrumental role of the poet Gallus in the development of Roman
elegy as a major literary form.
From 1964-66 Professor Ross was a Fellow of the American Academy in Rome,
and in 1970-71 he held the Morse Fellowship at Yale University. He also lectured
frequently at other institutions, including the University of Rome. By touching the lives of
his many students, Professor Ross profoundly influenced the development of Latin literary
studies in this country and beyond.


333




May Meeting, 2002


The Regents salute this faculty member by naming David 0. Ross, Jr., professor
emeritus of Greek and Latin.
Hermann F. Weiss, Ph.D., professor of German in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
Professor Weiss received his Staatsexamen in German and English from the
University of Bonn in 1963 and his Ph.D. degree from Princeton University in 1968. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1968 and was
promoted to associate professor in 1975 and professor in 1982.
As a scholar, Professor Weiss has long enjoyed international visibility and
recognition stemming from his book that documents and interprets much previously
unknown material on H. Von Kleist and that will unquestionably remain a cornerstone of
research on this much admired and timely writer. Professor Weiss is equally well known
for his definitive editions of letters written by A. Von Arnim and of von Arnim's critical
writings. Professor Weiss's renown rests as well on the quantity, patent quality, and
remarkable diversity of his 77 shorter publications, which were interdisciplinary in their
approach long before that method became popular. These shorter publications include a
considerable number of papers on Novalis, which are based on extensive archival
research.
Professor Weiss continually taught demanding courses on advanced German
stylistics with outstanding success and excellent student evaluations, and he was no less
popular in his advanced literature courses on romanticism and leading authors of the
nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. In addition to teaching and research, Professor
Weiss also served as the book review editor of Michigan Germanic Studies from
1991-2001 and markedly increased the journal's prestige and authority.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Hermann F. Weiss
professor emeritus of German.
Ernest P. Young, Ph.D., professor of history in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2002.
In 1954, Professor Young received his A.B. degree from Harvard College. He then
earned his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1958 and 1965,
respectively. From 1954-56, Professor Young was an instructor in English at Kumamoto
University, Japan, and from 1965-68 he served as an assistant professor at Dartmouth
College. Professor Young joined the faculty at the University of Michigan as an associate
professor in 1968. He was promoted to professor in 1974. Professor Young served as
associate chair of the history department from 1993-95, and he was appointed the
Richard Hudson Professor of History in 1998. From 1998 to 2000, Professor Young
served as the director of the Center for Chinese Studies.
As a historian of Chinese history, Professor Young published numerous articles on
nationalism, reform, and revolution in early twentieth century China. This focus was
exemplified in his book published by the University of Michigan Press, The Presidency
of Yuan Shih-k'ai: Liberalism and Dictatorship in Early Republican China. More
recently, Professor Young began exploring Catholicism in nineteenth and twentieth
century China through an examination of an institution-the French Religious
Protectorate. This project elucidates how the French Religious Protectorate operated in
China and analyzes the protectorates role in shaping Sino-foreign relations at state and
local levels during this period.


334




May Meeting, 2002


The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Ernest P. Young professor
emeritus of history.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for Nancy
Foran, associate professor of accounting at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the
death on February 25, 2002, of Nancy Foran, Ph.D., associate professor of accounting at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Professor Foran joined the Uliversity of Mchigan-Dearborn faculty in 2000, after
serving as a faculty member at Wichita State University for more than 20 years. Professor
Foran earned a Bachelor of Science degree (with highest honors) in accounting from the
University of California at Los Angeles in 1965, a Master of Science in accounting from
Wichita State University in 1967, and a Ph.D. in Business Administration from Oklahoma
State University in 1985.
Her academic and professional honors were numerous including Beta Gamma Sigma,
Phi Beta Kappa, Golden Key, Phi Kappa Phi and the Elijah Watt Sell award. She held
public accounting certification from the State of Kansas.
Professor Foran was an outstanding teacher. She had been nominated on numerous
occasions for Wichita State University's Board of Trustees Excellence in Teaching Award
and the Barton School of Business Teaching Award, of which she was a finalist. She had a
profound impact on her students during the brief time she was on the University of
Michigan-Dearborn faculty and was often described by students as "one of the best
professors I've ever had."
Professor Foran was an outstanding scholar. Her research was considered to be at
the forefront of her field of taxation. Colleagues were impressed by both the quality and
quantity of her work. Professor Foran's publication record earned her the reputation as a
leading academic in tax research.
Her contributions to professional organizations were significant, including
membership and leadership roles in the Academy of International Business, American
Accounting Association, American Taxation Association, American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants, Beta Alpha Psi, and Institute of Internal Auditors.
Professor Foran is survived by her husband Michael Foran, who is also a professor
of accounting at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and seven children and
stepchildren. She left an enduring legacy to her students, colleagues and her profession.
As we celebrate the life of this distinguished scholar and teacher, our condolences go to
her husband Michael, and their family.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda.   On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Six-Month Report on University Audits
Interim Chief Fianacial Officer Slottow submitted the Six-Month Report on University
Audits.


335




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


WFUM-TV and WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM              Statements of Support, Revenue and
Expenditures for the Year Ended June 30, 2001
Interim Chief Financial Officer Slottow submitted for information the WFUM-TV and
WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM Statements of Support, Revenue and Expenditures for the Year
Ended June 30, 2001.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2001
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously   approved   adoption   of  the   audited   financial  reports  for
WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2001.
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $15.0 million to Lumina Ventures, L.P., a
venture capital fund that will invest in the life sciences and medical technology sectors.
Lapeer Street Annex Building, Flint, Michigan
Chancellor Mestas pointed out that this property is not located on the Flint campus and
that all instructional activities currently taking place in this building will be relocated to the
new William S. White facility. On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent
Newman, the Regents unanimously approved offering the Lapeer Street Annex Building for
sale and selling it at or above the value determined by the appraisal.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Med Inn Guest
Elevators Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents unanimously
approved the UMHHC Med Inn Guest Elevators Replacement Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
Purchasing Contract with Michigan Aerospace Corporation
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Michigan Aerospace Corporation.
Because the owner of Michigan Aerospace Corporation, Lennard A. Fisk, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences, and Michigan Aerospace
Corporation.
2.   The service to be provided is a lead engineer for the Fast Imaging Plasma
Spectrometer project, from March 1, 2002 through November 31, 2002, at a total
cost of $125,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Lennard A. Fisk, a University of
Michigan employee, is a principal owner of Michigan Aerospace Corporation.


336




Mlay M/eeting, 20)02


Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and LivingText, LLC
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and
LivingText, LLC. Because Perry Samson and Deborah Gibson are both University of
Michigan employees and owners and/or employees of LivingText, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and LivingText, LLC.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The project
entitled Solar Wind Structure in the Inner Heliosphere:  Rationale for the
Location of the Sentinel Missions, will be directed by Thomas Zurbuchen of the
Space Physics Research Laboratory at an estimated cost of $80,150, incrementally
funded over a three year period.
3.   Professor Sampson's and Ms. Gibson's pecuniary interest arises from their status as
owners and/or employees of LivingText.
Proposed Reassignment Agreement between the University of Michigan and Olga
Makarova, Benjamin Margolis, and Emmanuel Kamberov
On a motion by Regent Horning, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents unanimously
approved a reassignment agreement with Olga Makarova, Benjamin Margolis, and
Point Mutation, Kilobasea-size Delention, Insertion or Replacement within a DNA
Molecule." Because Ms. Makarova, Mr. Margolis, and Mr. Kamberov are also University
of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Contract. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Olga
Makarova, Benjamin Margolis, and Emmanuel Kamberov.
2.   Reassignment agreement terms include 1) the inventors will be responsible for paying
all expenses to protect the copyright in the program; 2) the inventors will provide an
annual report of all activities related to the program; 3) the University will maintain a
royalty-free license to use the program for research and academic purposes; and 4) the
University will obtain a 15% share of any income received by the inventors.
3.   The inventors' pecuniary interest arises from their ownership of the technology.
Proposed Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan
and Nephros Therapeutics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved an amendment to the license agreement with Nephros Therapeutics,
Inc. Because H. David Humes is a University of Michigan employee who also holds an
equity interest in Nephros Therapeutics, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and H. David Humes.
2.   Contract terms include:
Addition of File Numbers 469, 1621, 1936, 2175, and 2305 to the existing license
agreement. All other terms of the license will remain unchanged.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   David Humes' pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Nephros. He
has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University from the company.


337




May Meeting, 2002


Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Datametrics
Research, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and
Datametrics Research, Inc. Because Dr. Rodney Little is both a University of Michigan
employee and vice president and 50% owner of Datametrics, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Datametrics Research,
Inc. ("Datametrics").
2.   The terms of the task orders to be issued under this agreement are acceptable and
conform to University policy (the prior written approval of publications has been
approved by the vice president for research). The amount of the agreement with the
University is unknown at this time. The period of performance is five years.
3.   Dr. Little's income from Datametrics for the current calendar year (2002) will be
less than $10,000. In prior years it has been both under and over $10,000.
Consulting Agreement between the University of Michigan and James Lee
On a motion by Regent Homing, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a consulting agreement between the University of Michigan and
James Lee to analyze data and prepare technical reports and publications. Because James
Lee is an adjunct research investigator at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and James Lee.
2.   Under the agreement, the University of Michigan will issue a consulting agreement to
James Lee in the amount of $8,000 for the period January 1, 2002 through June 30,
2002. The terms of the proposed consulting agreement are acceptable and conform
to University policy.
3.  James Lee's appointment at the University of Michigan runs through June 30, 2003
and is without compensation.
Appointments to the Board of Directors of the Washtenaw Community Health
Organization
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Homing, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointments of Mr. Saul Cooper and Dr. A.C. Elkins to the
Washtenaw Community Health Organization (WCHO) for a term from April 1, 2002 -
March 31, 2005.
A five-minute break followed, from 4:10-4:15 p.m.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics indicated:
Gary Hayden, citizen and treasurer of the Ann Arbor Tenants Union (AATU), on funding of
the AATU; David Boyle, student, on post-affirmative action victory University policies;
Stephen Rassi, student, on continuing University support of the United Way.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:35 p.m. The next
meeting will take place June 20-21, 2002.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


338




SPECIAL MEETING, MAY 2002


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 29, 2002
The Regents convened at 9:10 a.m. in the Kuenzel Room at the Michigan Union.
Present were Interim President White and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, McGowan,
Newman, Taylor, and White. Regent Maynard participated by telephone.
Interim President White called the meeting to order, and announced that the purpose
of the meeting was to elect the University's 13th president. He welcomed special guests
who were seated in the audience and turned the proceedings over to Regent Deitch, chair
of the Board of Regents.
Regent Deitch made the following comments:
"As chair of the Presidential Search Committee and the Board of Regents,
I am pleased to announce that we have completed the search process, have
identified one finalist, and I am prepared, in a few minutes, to nominate that
finalist for election as the 13th president of the University of Michigan.
However, before I do that, I would like to go over the chronology of events that
has led us to this day and offer my appreciation to a number of people who
have contributed to the success of this process.
On October 8, 2001, Lee Bollinger was appointed president of Columbia
University. On October 19, 2001, the Regents appointed B. Joseph White as
interim president of the University, effective January 1, 2002. On November 15,
2001, we outlined the search process for the community. I was elected chair of
the Presidential Search Committee; Regent Dan Horning was elected vice
chair. We created a 16 person Presidential Search Advisory Committee. Its
function was to review nominations and develop a pool of candidates for
consideration by the Regents sitting as the Presidential Search Committee. The
advisory committee was conceived of as a broad based group of committed and
wise University citizens...and that it was. Including its chair, 10 of its 16
members are faculty in Ann Arbor, Flint, and Dearborn. The other members
represent students, staff, and alumni. Also, on November 15, the Regents named
Dr. Earl Lewis, dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, as
chair of the advisory committee. On November 30, 2001, the Presidential
Search Committee selected Shelly Weiss Storbeck of A. T. Kearney as our search
consultant. On December 13, 2001, the Regents announced the members of the
advisory committee.
They are, in addition to Dean Lewis, Patricia Gurin, Nicholas del Banco,
William Roush, Susan Alcock, Larry Root, John Greden, Tressa Pollock,
Paulette Cebulski, Rashmi Luthra, Lisa Jackson, Matt Nolan, Ted Spencer,
Anocha Cornell, Saul Green, and Michael Jandernoa.


339




SP ecial Meeting May 2002


On January 9, 2002, the advisory committee held its first meeting. On
January 17, 2002, the advisory committee met with the Regents to receive its
charge. In the ensuing 5 months, the advisory committee met formally 15 times
and put in countless additional hours of research and study... a truly
extraordinary commitment by 16 people with very busy lives. Dean Lewis met
individually with the Regents on 4 occasions. Dean Lewis and I had
innumerable telephone conversations. In fact, it's fair to say that we were in
constant contact. The Regents, sitting as the Presidential Search Committee,
also had many meetings and devoted many additional hours of study to this
task.
We believe that our search was focused, thorough and thoughtful. The
work was, in my judgment, done in a professional and dispassionate way. The
pool of candidates was superb. In my judgment, that fact is reflective of both
Michigan's unique place in higher education and the efficient and highly
confidential process which we put in place. I can, today, confidently assert,
based on empirical evidence, that every person involved was motivated by only
one goal: namely, to find and recruit the very best person available to lead this
great University. Each of the Regents will, I hope, speak individually. Speaking
as one person, I can tell you that we took this enormous responsibility as
seriously as one can undertake any endeavor. By the Michigan Constitution,
the job of electing the president ultimately belongs to the Regents alone. Bar
none, this is the Regents' most important responsibility. I say that because the
University is owned by the people of Michigan and we 8 elected Regents are
their proxy. Given that fact, this is the one moment when we most definitively
act on our commitment to be good stewards for the University's future. As you
will see shortly, I am very proud to say that we 8 very diverse people acted
cohesively and well in making this choice.
Now, before I nominate our next president, some thank yous are in order,
as I said at the beginning of my remarks.
First and foremost, I want to thank the University's interim president, Joe
White. I also want to thank Joe's spouse, Mary D. White. Both Joe and Mary
are great citizens of this University and esteemed longtime members of the Ann
Arbor community. From the date that we asked Joe to assume the presidency on
an interim basis, he and Mary have poured their hearts and souls into the
myriad responsibilities that are the president's job. Joe not only kept the
University running but enabled it to move forward with impressive momentum.
He has been a wise counselor to me as the Board's first chair and I am grateful
for that. For the rest of my life, when I think of Joe White, I will think of the old
expression "You can never go wrong by doing the right thing." Joe's instincts
have always been to do the right thing for the University. Joe dedicated his
service as interim president to the 17 Michigan alumni who died at the World
Trade Center on September 11. Joe, you did them proud. We are in your debt.
[Standing Ovation] Prior to the completion of his tenure, we will offer more
formal recognition to Joe and Mary White.
I also want to thank Earl Lewis and the advisory committee. Earl is a
notably effective leader. Calm. Thoughtful. Strategic. Unflappable. The Regents


340




Special Meeting, May 2002


knew that we wanted a dean to chair the advisory committee. As we all know,
we as a university benefit from wise and competent decanal leadership across
the board and picking that one leader from a group of extraordinary people
was difficult. The advisory committee's performance was excellent and proved
that we made both a wise and fortuitous choice. Thank you, Dr. Lewis.
I also want to thank the various members of the advisory committee.
Around here, people often glibly speak of their "love" for the institution. These
16 men and women proved it by their self-sacrifice and dispassionate,
thoughtful, wise counsel. Similar thanks go to our talented and dedicated staff
without whom we could not have completed our work in such exemplary
fashion. First among these people is Barbara Wagner. Thank you, Barbara.
Now, with that prelude complete, I have the honor of informing you that
Dr. Mary Sue Coleman is the finalist in the Presidential Search Committee's
search to appoint the next president of the University of Michigan.
Currently, Dr. Coleman is president, professor of biochemistry and
professor of biological sciences at the University of Iowa. She has served with
distinction as president of that great public research university since 1995. We
believe she will prove to be one of the great leaders in Michigan's history. She
was quite simply the best candidate in an extraordinary field and we will be
fortunate to have her. We are very impressed with her breadth of experience
and superb credentials and trust that the community will be, as well.
Dr. Coleman is a distinguished scientist. As a cancer researcher, her work
focused on the immune system and malignancies. Her laboratories were
continuously funded by the National Institutes of Health for over 20 years. Dr.
Coleman is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of
Sciences, a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science
and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
She is a national leader in higher education. Please allow me to give you
just a few examples:
* She co-chairs the Institute of Medicine's Committee on the Consequences
of Uninsurance
* She serves on the board of trustees of the Universities Research
Association, as well as on:
^ the American Counsel on Education Board of Directors, Task Force on
Teacher Education and the Commission on Minorities in Higher
Education;
* the board of trustees of Grinnell College;
e the Association of American Universities Executive Committee and the
Task Force on Research Accountability;
* the President's Leadership Group of the Higher Education Center for
Alcohol and Other Drug Prevention; and
* the NCAA board of directors. Previously, she served on the Knight
Commission.


341




Special Meeting, May 2002


After earning her bachelor's degree in chemistry from Grinnell College
and her Ph.D. in biochemistry from the University of North Carolina, she
conducted postdoctoral work at North Carolina and at the University of Texas,
Austin. She is married to Dr. Kenneth Coleman, a political scientist
specializing in Latin America. They have one son, Jonathan, who is a portfolio
manager for the Janus Capital Corporation in Denver, Colorado. Ken and
Jonathan are here with us today to join in this happy occasion. Unfortunately,
Jonathan's new wife, of a little over 2 weeks, couldn't be with us today. We
welcome the entire Coleman family to our extended University of Michigan
family.
I could go on and on. However, my friend, Regent Taylor, will want me to
stop now. Therefore, it is my privilege to offer the following resolution:
Nomination of President
I present the finalist and hereby nominate, Dr. Mary Sue
Coleman, for the position of thirteenth president of the University of
Michigan.
I propose that Dr. Coleman be appointed br a term of five years
efJfctive August 1, 2002.   She will assume all the duties and
responsibilities of the presidency and will receive all the usual and
custom ay benefits associated with the office.  I further propose that
her salary be $475,000for the upcoming academic year. In addition, I
propose that she be provided with deferred compensation of $75,000
per year fiull vesting at the end of five years and a retention bonus of
$500,000 if she is still president of the Universit of Michigan at the
end of her initialfive-year term.
We have discussed these terms preliminarily with Dr. Coleman
and I now seek the Board's approval of this formal offer to her. Subject
to the Board's approval at the June Regents' meeting, we will finalize a
complete contract with Dr. Coleman.
Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Regent McGowan made the following comments:
"So many people who cherish this university have helped it -- and us --
over these many months.
For members of the Presidential Search Advisory Committee, theirs, too,
was a labor of love. But they had the responsibility of providing the Board of
Regents with a thorough and frank assessment of the University's options.
Their efforts in fulfilling this responsibility were truly magnificent. They
brought representative democracy, together with their collective sagacity, to
show a full understanding of how the University of Michigan graces public
higher education morally, intellectually, and through its leadership.  The
contributions of the people of this committee will be reflected in our every
success ahead.
Our own conversations with President-designate Coleman have been
exciting, forward-looking and yet, somehow, reassuringly familiar. She will


342




S ecial Meeting May 2002


talk to you, too, about why it is critical that one of the great research
universities be a public university, about what defines an educated person. She
will express her commitment to building diverse intellectual communities as
one practiced in the effort, convinced of its rightness, and proud, as president
of another Big Ten university, of this University's strong defense of its
admissions policies. And shortly, she 'll speak for herself. She will be a strong,
creative, experienced, thoughtful and successful president of the University of
Michigan. The job of this Board now becomes one of supporting her as she
leads in extending the University's reach through advancements in many fields
of knowledge.
And let it be said again and again! -- Girls can do math and science!
We all look forward to welcoming the Colemans to Ann Arbor, to
Michigan, and to this University on August 1.
Joe and Mary White stepped nimbly into the interim leadership of this
community on January 1; Joe's able leadership enabled each of us to be free to
pursue our own responsibilities at Michigan during what could have been an
awkward period. I admire them greatly for how they have met the challenges of
leadership."
Regent Horning stated that he associated himself with Regent Deitch's and Regent
McGowan's comments and said to Interim President White, "Joe, I can't thank you
enough for the way you've handled the leadership and stewardship of this university these
past few months. You and Mary have been and will always be integral parts of the
Michigan family and the Michigan puzzle, and from the bottom of my heart, I can't thank
you enough." To the Coleman family, he said, "Welcome to Ann Arbor. It is a
remarkable, special place —the world's greatest public institution —and I can only think
that your arrival here today will make it greater." He also thanked the search advisory
committee, commenting, "It worked. People said it couldn't be done and it was done."
Regent Taylor thanked Joe and Mary White, noting that being an interim president
"is no easy job." "You did a magnificent job, Joe," he stated, "and to you and Mary we
will always be indebted." Regarding the search advisory committee, he commented that
they had done an amazing job, putting in many hours of work. He observed that Dean
Lewis had said that the advisory committee' s job was "to make our job hard, and they did
that." He also expressed the University's gratitude for the advisory committee's efforts.
Regent Taylor observed that the search process had been "fun" and "exciting," and
that the Regents had met "a whole host of magnificent people." "In President Coleman,"
he concluded, "I think we've hit a home run." He congratulated her and her family and
said he looked forward to their moving to Ann Arbor.
Regent Brandon thanked everyone involved in the process and observed that he had
learned a lot. "I need to say today," he commented, "that the only job that may be more
challenging than that of president of the University of Michigan is to be interim president
of the University of Michigan. Joe did a fantastic job, and I am personally grateful for all
that you did." He said he was excited by Dr. Coleman's imminent arrival and welcomed
her and her family. "You are the best of the best," he noted, "and we're pleased that
you're here."


343




Special Meeting, May 2002


Regent Brandon also commented out that the whole process had been well run,
effective, and efficient, and that the confidentiality that was so important to attracting a
terrific group of candidates had been maintained. He thanked Regent Deitch for his
efforts and commitment to advancing the process and seeing that it concluded ahead of
schedule.
Regent Maynard commented that "we can all be proud of the Presidential Search
Advisory Committee and of the Regents acting as the Presidential Search Committee."
She thanked Regents Deitch and Horning for the extra time and effort they had expended
on the search effort.
She commented, "It is with great enthusiasm that I support the election of Dr. Mary
Sue Coleman to the presidency of the University of Michigan. She will bring wise and
energetic leadership to this great public institution, and I look forward to serving as a
Regent during her presidency." Regent Maynard also thanked Interim President Joe
White and his wife, Mary, "for their outstanding contributions to the University over the
past six months, noting that "Joe's commitment and his dedication to Michigan has
inspired all of us. So now I join with all of you as we commit ourselves to moving the
University of Michigan to its next step of greatness."
Regent White recognized "the extraordinary commitment President White and Mary
White have had to the University over the years," and thanked them for their devoted
service. She also thanked Dean Lewis and the search advisory committee for having
come up with such "phenomenal" candidates for the Regents' consideration. Finally, she
welcomed Dr. Coleman and her family to the University of Michigan. She noted how
fortunate the University is to have her here and said that she looked forward very much to
working with her.
Regent Newman associated herself with the other Regents' remarks, thanked Joe and
Mary White for their service, and welcomed the Coleman family to Michigan.
The vote was then taken on Regent Deitch's motion nominating Mary Sue Coleman
as president, and it was approved unanimously. Regent Deitch then introduced Dr.
Coleman to the assembly, and there was a standing ovation.
Dr. Coleman observed that "this is the thrill of a lifetime." She noted that her
88-year-old mother, who had cried when she learned the news, had understood what it
meant to be named president of the University of Michigan -- "one of the very greatest
public universities in the country."
Dr. Coleman thanked Interim President White for his offer of help and counsel
during the transition period. She thanked Dean Lewis and the Presidential Search
Advisory Committee, observing what an exciting experience it had been to meet with
such an "intellectually challenging and alive group" with whom she felt immediately at
home.
Dr. Coleman commented that her first meeting with the Board of Regents had also
been exciting because they were "a group of very intellectually combative people" who
don't always agree on everything. But she noted that they were unanimous in their love of
Michigan, and commented that "it warms the heart of a potential president to know that
the Regents are there to defend the University of Michigan over all else. I'll tell you, it
means everything. And it particularly means everything in a great public university. I'm


344




S ecial Meeting May 2002


passionate about public university education, and that's why it is such a great thrill for me
to be at the best public university in the country."
Dr. Coleman displayed some gifts she had been given to illustrate cultural and
corporate icons associated with the state of Michigan, including Sanders dessert topping,
a toy automobile, Vernors soda, a Motown CD, and a novel by Detroit native Elmore
Leonard. She again stated how thrilled she was. "This is going to be the experience of a
lifetime. It is going to be a wonderful journey, and I'm going to need all of you at the
University to help us make the University better. I look forward to your wise counsel and
your advice, and I'm thrilled as can be to be part of this wonderful community. Thank
you very much."
A standing ovation followed.
Regent Deitch thanked Vice President Tedesco for her counsel and assistance during
the search process. "I think what is called for as I call to adjourn the meeting now are
hugs, congratulations, more happiness and laughter, as we go forward into the future with
our new president. Thank you all for being here."
The meeting was adjourned at 9:40 p.m. A press conference ensued from 10:15 -
11:15 a.m.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary oj the University


345




Special Meeting Ma20


346




JUNE MEETING, 2002


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thu rsday, June 20. 2002
The Regents convened at 1:30 p.m. in the Regents' Room Present were Interim
President White and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Horning, Maynard, McGowan, Newman,
and White. Also present were Interim Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Vice
President and General Counsel Krislov, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President
Omenn, Vice President Rudgers, Interim Chief Financial Officer Slottow, Vice President
and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent
Taylor was absent, as was Chancellor Little.
President's Opening Remarks
Interim President White called the meeting to order. He commented on notable events
and achievements of University faculty, staff, and students during the past month, and he
called attention to the recent deaths of emeritus and active faculty members.
Comments from Regent Deitch
Board Organization and Structure. Regent Deitch noted that it had been announced
at the May meeting that the structural organization of the Board would be completed at this
meeting. He said that within the next several months the Regents would work with
President-Elect Coleman and Vice President Tedesco to determine charters and scope of
activity for board committees.
Regent Deitch nominated Regent Andrea Fischer Newman as vice chair of the
Board. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent Deitch announced the appointment of Regents Brandon, McGowan, and
Taylor to the Finance Committee, with Regent Brandon serving as chair. He appointed
Regents Maynard, Horning, and White to the Personnel Committee, with Regent Maynard
as chair.
Contract for President-Elect Coleman. Regent Deitch stated that the contract for
President Elect Coleman was not quite finalized yet. He noted that the parties are in
fundamental agreement on everything; there are technical issues related to deferred
compensation that need to be resolved. He stated he had recently spoken with President
Elect Coleman, and she was comfortable with the contract being finalized within the next
couple of weeks.
Residence Hall Safety and Security
Vice President Harper observed that there had been a series of incidents of home
evasion and "peeping toms" in the residence halls during the past academic year which had
led to a renewed scrutiny of the Housing Division's security protocol, staffing patterns,
structure, and equipment. This was done while attempting to balance the desire to ensure
the highest safety possible for students while making sure that the residence hall experience
would encourage openness and interaction among the residents.


347




June Meeting, 2002


Vice President Harper enumerated the steps that had been taken in conjunction with
the Department of Public Safety (DPS), including institution of 24-hour controlled access
to all residence halls, expanding daytime patrols and coverage in selected halls, and
stepping up educational efforts aimed at students. She introduced Bill Bess, director of
DPS.
Mr. Bess described efforts that are being taken to enhance general security in the
residence halls and to specifically address personal and property security in all halls so
as to reduce opportunities for home invasions, thefts, peeping tom cases, and other
intrusions by uninvited persons. The major focus of the current efforts is on changing
student behavior since previous crime prevention efforts had failed to do so. This can be
explained by the fact that 95% of students feel safe or very safe in residence halls.
Mr. Bess listed some of the steps that have already been implemented for residence
halls:  extra patrols and police visibility; 24-hour controlled access at hall entrances;
weekly meetings for summer camping program personnel to make sure that safety and
security issues are addressed; and expansion of the crime prevention program (more
posters, floor meetings, written communications). In addition, automatic door-locking
devices that will require the use of student ID cards to activate will be installed in all
residence hall rooms.
Mr. Bess noted that cameras will be used at the main access entrances of the halls.
These will not be actively monitored all of the time but will be used primarily for
investigative purposes. DPS has worked with the new student orientation program to
improve its presentations at these sessions. In addition, security has been tightened at the
summer camps that utilize residence halls. DPS has also sponsored a "crime prevention
through environmental design" program, which will train staff to become more familiar
with things that can be done in the design process to reduce the opportunities for the
commission of crime.
In summary, Mr. Bess stated that the department is very pleased with the progress
that has been made so far in all of the targeted areas. A discussion then followed in
which Mr. Bess and Vice President Harper responded to questions and suggestions from
the Regents about specific aspects of the residence hall safety program.
Interim President White praised Mr. Bess for the highly professional, sensitive
manner in which he carries out his duties.
University of Michigan Health System Topics
Executive Vice President Omenn gave a presentation continuing previous discussions
on issues related to the University of Michigan Health System. He observed that the
overriding challenge facing the Health System is to provide world-class medical care
while educating the next generation of physicians, contributing substantially to the advance
of medical knowledge, technologies, and care models, and remaining financially sound.
The five key elements of this challenge for the Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) are
quality, faculty development, operating margin, productivity, and supply chain management.
Quality: Executive Vice President Omenn stated that the Health System's goal is to
stay at the leading edge in technology development, implementation of innovations in
care, and improvement of service quality. The institution believes that "there is a
business case for quality."


348




June Meeting, 2002


Faculty Development:  The Health System's goal in this area is to work
continuously to enhance recruitment, retention, and multi-stage career development of
outstanding faculty in a wide variety of fields, with similar efforts for staff.
Operating Margin (Financial Performance): The Health System desires to continue
to grow, increasing volumes and revenues, and achieving a 2% operating margin while
managing capacity constraints. He noted that the 2% margin is a substantial challenge and
a worthy goal and aiming for a larger margin would lead to problems in meeting the other
elements of the institution's mission. Regarding capacity constraints, he commented that
over the past few years, many specific actions have been initiated that taken together have
enhanced the use of existing physical assets and created additional assets. These include
converting general care beds to cardiac monitoring beds; re-opening certain closed
inpatient units in such areas as cardiology and cardiac surgery; addition of operating
rooms; substantial expansion of the emergency department; and development of new
outpatient clinical facilities. Year-to-date for FY 2002, he reported, the operating margin
is $11.6 million (1.3 percent). Figures for revenues, expenses, clinic visits, and hospital
admissions are all very close to budget for FY 2002.
Productivity: In this area, the Health System emphasizes work redesign, training,
benchmarking, capital investment, and building positive attitudes. He observed that
engaging people in the design of their work gives people a sense of pride and improves
productivity.
Executive Vice President Omenn responded to a question from Regent McGowan
about the effect that new guidelines limiting the number of work hours per week for
medical residents will have on their education and on hospital finances, capacity, and
operation. He noted that there is debate about how the 80 hours per week work schedule
maximum is to be calculated, how emergencies are to be handled, and other matters, such
as the fact that residents may moonlight at other hospitals. Executive Vice President
Omenn commented that, in certain major specialty areas, the guidelines are close to being
met already and the guidelines do not present a material financial problem.
Educationally, this is a challenging, sensitive issue with respect to ensuring that residents
are exposed to sufficient numbers of cases in their field.
Supply chain management: Executive Vice President Omenn observed that great
strides have been made in inventory management, but persuading physicians to
standardize their practices with respect to prescription medication and utilization of
supplies is a challenge.
Regent Brandon observed that the target operating margin is 2%, but currently the
health system is achieving 1.3%. He asked whether any peer institutions are doing better
than the UM Health System in terms of operating margin. Executive Vice President
Omenn responded that the University's performance with respect to operating margin is
on a par with that of top performing academic centers, and that small differences
year-to-year in volume can make a big difference in margin. He said that the FY 2003
budget calls for capturing certain reimbursable costs that have not been captured in the
past, and this should contribute to the operating margin. Conversely, certain expenses
have been classified as operating expense, rather than equity transfer, which reduces the
operating margin.


349




June Meeting, 2002


Interim President White commented that for the near term, the focus of the Health
System needs to be on controlling costs and noted that costs have been continuing to grow
despite aggressive cost management efforts.
Nursing shortage: Executive Vice President Omenn then turned to efforts being
made to overcome the nursing shortage by focusing on recruitment and retention. He
described some of the initiatives undertaken in these areas and noted the result was 204
new hires in the first five months of 2002 compared to 118 during the same period the
previous year. It was noted that the most frequent reason cited for why nurses quit their
jobs is personal. He also pointed out that these jobs require high skill levels and are
physically demanding. Both factors contribute to difficulties in recruitment and retention.
Regent Deitch observed that the major factor affecting quality in the minds of the
patient is nursing care. Executive Vice President Omenn noted that the Health System is
very competitive on such factors as salaries, benefits, child care options, etc. He
explained that nursing staffing difficulties are due more to the burden of the work than
salary and benefits concerns, and steps are being taken to alleviate this by increasing the
number of hours of nursing care per patient, which would add additional nurses to care
for the same number of patients. This should also lead to improvements in quality.
Regent Maynard raised the issue of the shortage of qualified faculty to teach in
nursing schools. It was noted that this is a recognized problem nationwide and innovative
solutions are being pursued.
Executive Vice President Omenn commented that workplace redesign has been
focusing on garnering respect for and empowering nurses by creating nurse-physician
dyads in every unit. The goals of the dyads are to recognize and empower physician and
nurse leaders, foster communication and partnerships, and jointly redesign work
processes and manage budgets. This innovation has had positive results.
Executive Vice President Omenn then turned to statistics that serve as measures of
quality care, which include ratings of patient access to ambulatory care (time it takes to
get an appointment and clinic waiting time) and satisfaction rating on care received;
physician referral services; patient self-referral services; emergency department access
and satisfaction; and willingness of patients to recommend Health System services.
Executive Vice President Omenn then reviewed "dashboard indicators" that
represent measures of clinical performance, which include rate of births by Cesarean
section; rate of compliance with advance directive procedure; rate of bloodstream
infection; rate of delinquent medical records; mortality rate for coronary artery bypass
surgery; pediatric mortality rate; employee satisfaction; and lost workday injury-illness
rate among employees.
Regarding M-Care, Executive Vice President Omenn noted that past problems and
deficits have largely been alleviated, and it is being very well run with a current
operating margin of $1.0 million.
Regent Brandon raised the issue of the anxiety experienced by patients during the
time lag between when a patient is told that a problem is suspected and when laboratory
test results are disclosed, and he asked whether these measures are tracked. He noted
that even though test results are often actually available shortly after the test is conducted,


350




June Meeting, 2002


patients are often told that results will not be revealed for up to seven days. The Regents
urged that this concern be addressed.
Executive Vice President Omenn summarized that overall, prospects are bright for
the UM Health System due to its outstanding and rising reputation; substantial investments
in people, buildings, clinical research, infrastructure, and clinical expansions; and
progressive commitment across the Health System units (Medical School, Hospitals and
Health Centers, and M-Care) to the health system concept.
Regent Deitch thanked Executive Vice President Omenn, commenting that "we all
take great pride in the Medical Center and its people," and that discussions such as just
occurred are pursued only to maintain the focus on making it better. He observed that
when he concludes his service as Regent, he will look back on the decision made by the
Board to create the position of executive vice president for medical affairs as the correct
decision, and he praised Dr. Omenn's performance as the first person to hold that
position.
A five-minute break followed, from 3:10 to 3:15 p.m.
Interim President White recognized Francis Blouin, director of the Bentley
Historical Library, who was present in the audience. He also announced that Vice
President Rudgers had recently raised money for a nonprofit organization for children
affected by AIDS, Camp Greenbear, by completing a half-marathon race.
Report of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty - Dearborn Campus
Interim President White called on Professor Marlene Gordon, chair of the Dearborn
Campus Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF). Professor Gordon
reported that the committee had reviewed changes in revenue and expenditures from
1992-2001. There were modest increases in some categories and significant funding
increases in other categories.  Comparisons were also made with other Class IIA
universities. She noted that during the past year, the administration had made a significant
effort to address the issue of salary parity for tenure-track and tenured faculty. Committee
recommendations include continuing current steps to increase salaries for adjunct
professors; continuing the commitment to raise faculty salaries overall; raising the salaries
of underpaid faculty; and including non-instructional faculty in all comparisons.
Professor Gordon noted that in the fall the committee would be meeting with its
counterparts on the Ann Arbor and Flint campuses to coordinate reporting data.
Report of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty - Flint Campus
Professor Steve Myers presented the CESF report for the Flint campus. The primary
focus of the committee has been the affect of inflation on UM-Flint faculty salaries; whether
there is significant salary compression within faculty ranks; and how UM-Flint faculty
salaries compare to peer institutions. The committee found that there had been substantial
loss in faculty buying power relative to the early 1970s, but in more recent years, the
University has mostly kept pace with inflation. It also found substantial salary compression
at the assistant and associate professor levels and at the lecturer and full professor levels.
In addition, the committee also concluded that UM-Flint has maintained its average ranking
among peers, with some modest improvement with respect to average assistant professor
salaries.


351




June M/eeting, 20022


Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the May 16,
2002 regular meeting and the May 29, 2002 special meeting.
Reports. Interim Chief Financial Officer Slottow submitted reports of Investment
and Plant Extension.
Interim Provost Courant submitted the Human Resources and Affirmative Action
Report. He called attention to the report's description of a three-stage project that is
underway to develop a new classification system for non-academic, non-union staff.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.    Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established for the period of May 1-May 31, 2002. He also submitted the report on
Implementation of Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and Agreements, for
FY 2001. He noted that six contracts out of about 5,000 total had been accepted with
special restrictions.  For these contracts, the funding agency is allowed to place
restrictions on the dissemination of information for a restricted period of time.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Omenn had no
additional report.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper had no additional report.
University of Michigan-Dearborn     There was no report from the Dearborn
campus.
University of Michigan-Flint.    Chancellor Mestas reported that Professor
Jacqueline Zeff had received the 2002 "Distinguished Woman in Higher Education
Leadership Award" from the American Council on Education last week. He also
commented on the recently held dedication ceremony for the new William S. White
Building.
Faculty Governance Report. Regents Deitch and Newman made note of the very
complimentary report submitted by the chair of SACUA, Dr. Koopmann.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. There was no additional MSA report.
Voluntary Support. Interim Vice President Wilbanks submitted the Report of
Voluntary Support for May 2002.
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. $103,888
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 102,269
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School............................................... 96,236
Anonymous Donor
a charitable gift annuity
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Education.................................  25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Institute for Social Research, the Medical School, and
the  School of Public  Health....................................................  102,076
AT&T Foundation, Stuart, Florida
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................  41,565


352




JunEe M~eetinug, 2002


Attenuon, L.L.C., New York, New York
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Medical School.............. 20,000
Francois-Xavier Bagnoud, Zug, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship Fund in the College of Engineering....... 151,329
H. Lewis Batts, Jr., Estate
for the Biological Station, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.  20,000
Thomas J. Beaver, Dripping Springs, Texas
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 20,000
Isadore Binzer Trust
for the President's Fund........................................................ 25,000
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust
for WFUM................................................................... 33,300
Alan R. Blackburn Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 60,000
Janette E. Blackburn Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..          60,000
Camilla A. Boden Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 439,929
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................... 25,000
Boston Scientific Corporation, Natick, Massachusetts
for support in the Medical School............................................... 20,000
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
100,000 shares of SRA International, Inc., common stock
for the William and Delores Brehm Funds in the Medical School................... 19100,000
Martin B. Breighner, Harbor Springs
3,000 shares of Greater Bay Bancorp common stock
for the Martin I. and Nancy Breighner Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the John Reed Scholarship in the Law School..                             100,290
Brentlinger Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Paul S. Brentlinger Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 20,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 42,000
Raymond L. Curran, Whittier, California
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School................................ 15,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for the Pediatric Dentistry Fund and other support in the School of Dentistry............ 68,261
Ann Wehner Deutsch, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
1,701 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Ann Deutsch Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Department of Physics and Hill Auditorium................................... 100,000
Bill and Molly Dobson Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation
for the Mary Hunter Dobson Scholarship Fund at the Center for the Education of Women and
for support in the School of Business Administration, the Medical School,
the Department of Athletics, the University Musical Society, and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................... 1-5,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
for scholarships and research in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 93,765
Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 224,956
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration and
the Co- ege of Engineering at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 168,61-0
Ford Motor Company Fund
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for employee matching gifts................................................... 171,446
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research in the Medical School............................................... 75,000
Stanley & Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the Judiac Studies Director's Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 22,500
Helen L. Gehring Estate
for the Harold and Helen Gehring Endowed Funds in the Medical School............ 3,000,000
General Motors Foundation, Ann Arbor
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 15,185


353




June Meeting, 2002


John I. Getz, Durham, North Carolina
for the John and Elizabeth Getz Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................  100,000
Leona M. Geyer Trust
for the Roby M. Burley Scholarship Fund......................................... 34,672
Harry P. Hawkins, Ann Arbor
450 shares of W.M. Wrigley Jr. Co., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 25,526
Hugh E. Henshaw, Harbor Springs
for the Wandalie Henshaw Scholarship in the School of Music........................ 70,000
James and Lynelle Holden Fund, Detroit
for support in  the Law   School...................................................  10,000
May W. Huber, Peoria, Arizona
for  the  President's  Fund.......................................................  64,704
Hughes 1995 Living Trust
for support in the School of Business Administration............................... 50,000
Hughes Network Systems, Germantown, Maryland
for research in the College of Engineering........................................ 37,500
Ideation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics....................................  10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research  in the College of Engineering......................................... 35,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health....................................... 949,536
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.............................................. 352,353
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
G raduate  Studies.............................................................  140,000
Rhea K. Kish Trust
for support in the Institute for Social Research..................................... 15,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the  University  Hospitals.....................................................  14,852
Kojaian Ventures, LLC, Bloomfield Hills
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 50,000
Ton Koot, Montfoot, Netherlands
for University Outreach Community support at the University of Michigan-Flint......... 10,000
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts....................................................  10,597
William G. Kring, Ann Arbor
for the William G. Kring Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Rinderknecht Memorial Scholarship Fund in the School of Music.................. 25,000
Marylyn Lake Estate
2,704 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in  the School of Education............................................. 71,143
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................ 120,000
Eli Lilly and Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Engineering and
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering....................... 55,000
Gillson Longenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................................  185,000
Henry Luce Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 30,000
John H. and Anne L. Mahler Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Henry J. Meyer Fellowship in the School of Social Work...................... 10,000
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for gifts pending designation and
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  62,500
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
350 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration..... 10,754
Manoogian Simone Foundation, New York, New York
for the Armenian-Turkish Studies Initiative Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and  the  A rts...........................................................  15,000


354




June M/eeting, 20022


Maplehurst, Inc., Kewadin
for the Ryan Cohn Memorial Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............. 10,000
Marsal Family Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Marsal Family Foundation Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........... 20,000
Masterfoods, Rogers, Arizona
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Mellor Family Foundation, Laguna Beach, California
for the Class of 1952 Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering.................. 10,000
Mid West Financial Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............................ 10,800
Robert J. Miller, Bingham Farms
500 shares of Huntington Bancshares common stock
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the School of Dentistry............ 10,315
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for research in the College of Engineering and the Transportation Research Institute..... 30,000
Marian Jordan Molander, Naples, Florida
3,550 shares of MASCO Corporate common stock
for the Marian Molander Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................  102,382
C. Barry Montgomery, Chicago, Illinois
for support in  the Law   School...................................................  10,000
J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York
for MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 15,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research at the University of Michigan-Flint................................... 171,600
MSX International, Inc., Auburn Hills
for research in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 30,000
Werner and Ruth Nartel Foundation, Flint
for the Werner Nartel Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint............. 25,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 15,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School............................................... 45,500
Robert E. Nederlander Foundation, New York, New York
for support in  the  Law  School...................................................  30,000
Marvin A. Oleshansky, Silver Spring, Maryland.
for the Richard Wilt Memorial Fund in the School of Art and Design................... 12,000
Steven W. Percy, Akron, Ohio
for the McGraw Foundation Fellowships Matching Fund and other support in
the School of Business Administration............................................ 15,500
Pharmacia, Kalamazoo
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 22,000
Pharmacia Foundation, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for employee  matching  gifts....................................................  14,235
Phillips Research, Briarcliff Manor, New York
for research in the College of Engineering......................................... 50,000
Presser Foundation, Haverford, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Musical Scholarship in the School of Music.......................... 11,700
Proctor and Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Public Health,
the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for other support at the University of Michigan.................................... 103,000
Pryor Foundation, Windsor, Connecticut
for the W aterman Group Scholarship Fund......................................... 10,000
Douglas P. Rearick, Brighton
190 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock
for graduate student support in the School of Education.............................. 10,151
RER Corporation - A Michigan Corporation, New York, New York
for support in  the Law   School...................................................  70,000
Jeffrey A. Rich, Dallas, Texas
1,400 shares of Affiliated Computer Service, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration................................ 75,733
Roy H. Roberts, Naples, Florida
for the Roy H. Roberts Pre-Clinical Laboratory Fund in the School of Dentistry...... 1,000,000
Edwin A. Roth Estate
for support in the College of Engineering.........................................  25,364
Sallie Mae Student Loan Marketing Association, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee  m atching  gifts....................................................  23,484


355




JunEe M~eetinug, 2002


Schnall Family Trust
for the Dorothy and Blaine Schnall Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy............. 10,000
Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC, Phoenix, Arizona
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................ 25,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Women's Gymnastics Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics........ 300,000
Frederic C. Sherriff, Kenilworth, Illinois
for the May L. Lafever Scholarship in the College of Engineering..................... 1-1,500
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 120,000
Jeffrey and Susan Stern Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the Jeffrey and Susan Kahn Stern Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................ 12,500
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 40,000
Robert P. Tiernan, Diablo, California
135 shares of Bank of America Corporation common stock
for the Robert P. Tiernan Faculty Endowment Fund in the Law School.................. 10,274
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 10,000
Harriett Turner Trust
for the Frank J. and Harriett Turner Endowment Funds in
the School of Business Administration and the Medical School...................... 450,000
Universal Credit Services, Inc., Brighton
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund...................... 10,800
Peter M. Wege, Grand Rapids
for the ransition for the Center of Sustainable Systems Fund in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment.................................. 25,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Ford Endowment for National Pollution Prevention Fund
in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 112,500
Edith Z. Weinberg, Harrison, New York
for the Edith Zickerman Weinberg Scholarship in the School of Music................. 25,000
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.................................... 20,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 69,222
John P. Williams, Leawood, Kansas
285 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Law School Alumni Scholarship Fund and other support in the Law School........ 10,382
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
for the Womer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education.........................................................25,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School.................................... 50,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Ernest Abel, West Bloomfield
a collection of American Civil War books for the Clements Library
Robert H. Bluestein, Bloomfield Hills
event hosting for the School of Business Administration
Martha B. Donovan, Venice, Florida
historical militar documents for the Clements Library
Daisy Lovain, Garden ity
a manuscript for the Clements Library
Richard E. McDonald, Mequon, Wisconsin
audio and video cassettes for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Nobel Biocare, Yorba Linda, California
computers for the School of Dentistry
John Nydegger, Dearborn
ocuments and books for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigan Library
William P. Tailyour, Norfolk, Connecticut
collection of letters and documents of the John Taylor (Tailyour) family for the Clements Library
David R. Taylor, Redwood City, California
books and other printed items for the Clements Library
Irma M. Wyman, Saint Paul, Minnesota
maps for the Clements Library


356




June Meeting, 2002


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Alichan A. Bairamian, Glendale, California
Elaine K. Gazda, Ann Arbor
William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor
Helen M. Graves, Ann Arbor
Louise Johnson, Ann Arbor
Knit A Round Yarn Shop, Ann Arbor
Evelyn J. Landgraf, Dearborn
Diane McColl, Saline
Elizabeth Musgrave, Port Huron
Dennis R. Papazian, Troy
Robert J. Starring, Ann Arbor
Hugo L. Vandersypen, Ann Arbor
Audrey Williams, Southfield
Personnel Actions. Interim Provost Courant submitted the following personnel
actions. He highlighted the reappointment of Paula Allen-Meares as dean of the School of
Social Work and George Kenyon as dean of the College of Pharmacy. He noted that the
Supplemental Agenda contains requests for approval of faculty appointments for
President-Elect Coleman.
Vice President Ulaby pointed out the recommnendation for the appointment of
Professor Anthony Francis as associate vice president for research.
NEWV AIPPOINTM\ENTS AND1 P:R(_)MOTIONS
FO1R REGULARt ASSOCIATE AND FULLI PROFESSOR RtANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Abel, Richard, Ph.D., Professor of International Film and Media, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2002
Coleman, Mary Sue, Ph.D., Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, and Professor of
Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2002
Futuyma, Douglas J., Ph.D., Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Chair, Department of
Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2002
Johnson, Lynn A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 25, 2002
Johnson, Valen, Ph.D., Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, September 1, 2002
Li, Hongzhe, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, September 1, 2002
Morgenstern, Lewis B., M.D., Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, Associate Professor of
Neurosurgery, without tenure, and Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, without tenure,
Medical School, July 1, 2002
Petruzzelli, Lilli M., M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2002
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, W;ITH3[1UET TENURJlE
Effective on the dates indicated
Baveja, Satinder Singh, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2002
Becker, Udo, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2002
Berick, Yehonatan, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Music (Violin), School of Music,
September 1, 2002-May 31, 2008
Renno, Nilton, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2002


357




June M/eeting, 20022


REfAPPOINTMENI   TS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRAT STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Allen-Meares, Paula, Dean, School of Social Work, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2008
Amrine, Frederick R., Interim Chair, Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002-July 31, 2002
Anderson, Donald F., Chair, Department of Social Sciences, University of Michigan-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Bernitsas, Michael M., Chair, Department of Navel Architecture and Marine Engineering, College of
Engineering, July, 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Ellsworth, Phoebe C., Robert B. Zajonc Collegiate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2007
Herrin, Gary D., Assistant Dean, College of Engineering, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2007
James, Sherman A., Chair, Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public
Health, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Kahn, Margaret F., Chair, Department of Political Science, University of Michigan-Flint College of
Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Kenyon, George L., Dean, College of Pharmacy, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
MacCormack, Sabine G., Mary Ann and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professor for the Study of Human
Understanding, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2007
McLaughlin, Renate, Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, University of Michigan-Flint,
July 1, 2002
Sears, Elizabeth L., Interim Chair, Department of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 2002
Solon, Gary R., Chair, Department of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Wall, Harriet, Chair, Department of Psychology, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Zitzewitz, Paul, Chair, Department of Natural Sciences, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFRS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Arora, Poonam, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Humanities, University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Barnes, Roy C., Assistant Professor of Sociology, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of
Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal Justice, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, April 16-June 30, 2002
Barnes, Roy C., Assistant Professor of Sociology, also appointed Chair, Department of Sociology,
Anthropology, and Criminal Justice, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 1 2002-June 30, 2005
Bernstein, Stephen, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
English, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Burns, Peggy, Assistant Dean for Communications and Marketing, also appointed Interim Assistant
Dean for Development and External Relations, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Interim Associate Vice President for Development, June 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Chatters, Linda M., Associate Professor of Public Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, also
appointed Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Francis, Anthony H., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
also appointed Associate Vice President for Research, Office of the Vice President for Research,
September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005
Hanashiro, Roy, Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of History,
University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, Carl W. Belser Collegiate Professor of Buddhist and
Tibetan Studies, Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Languages and Cultures, also appointed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 1, 2002-June 30, 2003


358




June M/eeting, 20022


Miller, Douglas, Associate Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair,
Department of Foreign Languages, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 1-June 30, 2002
Miller, Douglas, Associate Professor of Foreign Languages, with tenure, also appointed Chair,
Department of Foreign Languages, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Perry, Mark I., Assistant Professor of Economics, also appointed Chair, Department of Economics,
University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
Pichersky, Eran, Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Interim Chair, Department of Molecular,
Cellular and Developmental Biology, appointed Chair, Department of Molecular, Cellular, and
Developmental Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 1, 2002-August 31, 2003
Schoeni, Robert F., Associate Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, also appointed Associate Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2008
Stach, Robert, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, and Senior Advisor to the Chancellor, also
appointed Chair, Department of Chemistry, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Yates, J. Frank, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also
appointed Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2007
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Harold W. Cruse Collegiate Professorship in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2002
Ruth Tuttle Freeman Research Professorship in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 1, 2002
Carleton H. Griffin-Deloitte & Touche LLP Collegiate Professorship in Accounting, School of
Business Administration, July 1, 2002
David B. Hermelin Professorship in Business Administration, School of Business Administration,
July 1, 2002
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
New Administrative Positions Established
Assistant Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 1, 2002
Assistant Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2002
New Appointments o Collegiate Profssorhips
Alcock, Susan E., John H. D'Arms Collegiate Professor of Classical Architecture and Classics, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2007
Bailey, Richard W., Fred Newton Scott Collegiate Professor of English, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2007
New Appointments to Established Professorships
Hayes, John P., Claude E. Shannon Professor of Engineering Science, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2002-August 31, 2007
Sintas, Donald J., Earl V. Moore Professor of Music (Saxophone), School of Music,
September 1, 2002-August 31, 2007
Yang, Ralph T., Dwight F. Benton Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2002-August 31, 2007
Other Transactions
Duenyas, Izak, Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
Dziekan, Julie A., Associate Dean, University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Management,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
G6mez, Luis O., Acting Chair, Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2002-June 30, 2003


359




June M/eeting, 20022


Herwitz, Daniel, Mary Fair Croushore Professor and Director, Institute for the Humanities, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2002-July 31, 2007
Mercer, Graham I., Assistant Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
Reilly, Raymond R., Associate Dean in Executive Education, School of Business Administration,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
COMMITTEE AP3POINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Advisor Boad on Intercolleiate Athletics
We   __ofla          o      a     n
Fisher, Richard, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003, vice Charles F. Koopman, serving on Advisory Board as
Chair of SACUA
A. Aled rTubman Collee  oArch itecture and Urban Planning Executive Comminttee
Constant, Caroline B., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004, vice James A. Turner, term expired
Levine, Jonathan, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004, vice Robert W. Marans, term expired
LeCuyer, Annette W., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003, vice Hemalata C. Dandekar, resigned
School ofArt and Design Executive Committee
Porter, Marianetta, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2004, vice James A. Cogswell, term expired
Samuels, Allen J., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2004, vice Louis M. Marinaro, term expired
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Kinnear, Thomas C., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004, vice RajeevBatra, term expired
Lovejoy, William S., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003, vice Michael D. Gordon, unable to serve
Lundholm, Russell J., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004, vice Francine Lafontaine, term expired
Clements LibraryAssociates Boar of overnors
Axe, John, new appointment, May 7-September 30, 2002
Booth, John L., II, new appointment, May 7-September 30, 2002
Dennis, William C., new appointment, May 7-September 30, 2002
Erwin, Elizabeth C., new appointment, May 7-September 30, 2002
Fox, John L., new appointment, May 7-September 30, 2002
Hook, Keith B., new appointment, May 7-September 30, 2002
Mueller, Janet, new appointment, May 7-September 30, 2002
School o Dentistry Executive Committee
Krebsbach, Paul H., November 1, 2002-October 31, 2005, vice Daniel J. Chiego, Jr., term expired
Lopatin, Dennis E., November 1, 2002-October 31, 2005, vice Robert A. Bagramian, term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
Cohen, David K., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005, vice Stephen W. Raudenbush, term expired
Lawrence, Janet H., new appointment, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Moje, Elizabeth B., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005, vice Carla O'Connor, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Coppola, Brian P., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Ruth E. Dunkle, term expired
Marx, Ronald W., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Mary Anne Carroll, term expired
Schoenfeldt, Michael C., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Celeste A. Brusati, term expired
Schwartz, Jessica, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Caroline A. Gaither, term expired
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Ulrich, Dale A., reappointed, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
Watkins, Bruce A., reappointed, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004
Collese  of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Blass, Andreas R., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Charles F. Yocum, term expired
Darwall, Stephen L., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Carol Smith-Rosenberg, term expired
Medical School Executive Committee
Colletti, Lisa M., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Jeffrey S. Warren, term expired
Glover, Thomas W., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Jean E. Robillard, term expired
Lomax, Margaret I., new appointment, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005


360




June Meeting, 2002


Peggs, James F., new appointment, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2004
School o Music Executive Committee
Becker, Judith O., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005, vice H. Robert Reynolds, term expired
Shirley, George I., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2004, vice Steven Shipps, becoming ex-officio member
Sinta, Donald J., January 1-June 30, 2003, vice Freda A. Herseth, sabbatical leave
Snow, Sandra L., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005, vice Walter T. Everett, term expired
Sparling, Peter D., January 1-June 30, 2003, vice Ellen H. Rowe, sabbatical leave
Schoolfof Natural Resaoures  and Environment Executive Committee
Wiley, Michael J., June 1, 2002-May 31, 2004, vice Gloria E. Helfand, term expired
Wondolleck, Julia M., June 1, 2002-May 31, 2004, vice Barry G. Rabe, term expired
School oA Nursing Executive Committee
Boyd, Carol J., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005, vice Violet H. Barkauskas, term expired
Hagerty, Bonnie M., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005, vice Reg A. Williams, term expired
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Fleisher, David, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005, vice Duane M. Kirking, term expired
Gaither, Caroline A., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005, vice Victor C. M. Yang, term expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Foxman, Betsy, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Edward T. Zellers, term expired
Strecher, Victor J., September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005, vice Tom Hickey, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Bierbaum, Rosina M., August 1, 2002-July 31, 2005, vice Daniel E. Atkins III, term expired
Gerden, John F., August 1, 2002-July 31, 2005, vice Sheldon H. Danziger, term expired
Kelbaugh, Douglas S., August 1, 2002-July 31, 2005, vice Noreen M. Clark, term expired
McDonald, Terrence J., July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005, or pending his agreement or the appointment of his
designate
Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Courant submitted the following personnel
actions:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Asnes, Andrea G., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
October 1, 2001-June 30, 2002
Beel-Bates, Cynthia A., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing,
February 1, 2002-January 31, 2003
Bhadriraju, Srinivas, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Boyd, Melba J., D.A., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2002
Chang, Andrew C., M. D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Connor, Laurence D., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, May 20, 2002-May 31,
2004
Curry, Robin C., M.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 15-June 15, 2002
Degregorio, Scott D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1, 2002-April 30, 2003
Gartner, Elaina, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Hasen, David M., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2005
Hyzy, Robert C., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
May 1, 2002-April 30, 2004
Kartha, Ninith V., M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Kim, Dennis W., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Lim, David S., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1-September 30, 2002


361




June M/eeting, 20022


Morley, Thomas H., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
May 20, 2002-May 19, 2003
Nazir, Javed, M.A., Lecturer II in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1-June 30, 2002
Napper, Elizabeth S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 1-July 31, 2002
Powell, Lana D., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
August 1, 2002-July 31, 2003
Reznik, Joseph, B.S., Lecturer II in Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 15-August 17, 2002
See, Maria S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of English
Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2002-May 2005
Zemgulys, Andrea P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2002-August 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMiOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTM1ENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF IREGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Diehl, Kathleen M., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Jebson, Peter J. L., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery,
Medical School, April 9, 2002-June 30, 2003
Valentine, John B., from Lecturer in Dentistry, Department of Oral Medicine/Pathology Oncology and
Lecturer in Dentistry, Department of Cariology, to Clinical Assistant Professor of Cariology,
School of Dentistry, March 1, 2002-February 28, 2005
Worden, Francis P., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS OF
CLINICAL       UL FACULTY ND
PRIMAIRY RESEARCH SCIENTISTS
Effective on September 1, 2002
Alaniz, Cesar, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pharmacy, College
of Pharmacy
Balogh, Lajos, from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Bratton, Susan L., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Brock, Thomas G., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Charpie, John R., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
D'Errico, Celia M., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of
Anesthesiology, Medical School
DaFonseca, Marcio A., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry,
School of Dentistry
Dasika, Narasimham L., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of
Radiology, Medical School
Eby, David W., from Associate Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, University of
Michigan Transportation Research Institute
Hamilton, James C., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry,
School of Dentistry
Helman, Joseph I., from Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry and Clinical Associate Professor of
Oral Surgery to Clinical Professor of Dentistry and Clinical Associate Professor of Oral Surgery,
School of Dentistry
Hoban, Timothy F., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases and Clinical Associate Professor of Neurology, Medical School


362




June M/eeting, 20022


Hogikyan, Robert V., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Johnson, Richard A., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry
Kiningham, Robert B., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Family
Medicine, Medical School
Kraft, Michael D., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of
Pharmacy
Lam, Kwok L., from Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology and Assistant Research Scientist,
Radiation Oncology, to Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology and Senior Associate
Research Scientist, Radiation Oncology, Medical School
Lau, Wei C., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Anesthesiology,
Medical School
Levine, John E., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Levy, Loren, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Anesthesiology,
Medical School
Li, Ying, from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Lowe, Lori, from Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology and Clinical Assistant Professor of
Dermatology to Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology and Clinical Associate Professor of
Dermatology, Medical School
Lozon, Marie M., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Clinical Associate Professor of Emergency
Medicine, Medical School
Meador-Woodruff, James H., from Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Senior Associate Research
Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute, to Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Senior
Research Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute, Medical School
Nelson, Virginia S., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, Medical School
O'Reilly, Michael, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of
Anesthesiology, Medical School
Orbuch, Terri L., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Research Scientist, Institute for Research
on Women and Gender
Peggs, James F., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Family Medicine, Medical
School
Polley, Linda S., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Anesthesiology,
Medical School
Raghunathan, Trivellore E., from Associate Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health and
Senior Associate Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research to
Associate Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, and Senior Research Scientist,
Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research
Riba, Michelle B., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Psychiatry, Medical
School
Schultz, John S., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School
Shadigian, Elizabeth M., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Shore, Susan E., from Assistant Research Scientist to Senior Associate Research Scientist, Kresge
Hearing Research Institute, Medical School
Silver, Samuel M., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Spires, Mary C., from Clinical Assistant Professor of to Clinical Associate Professor of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School
Szocik, James F., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Anesthesiology,
Medical School
Turner, Dennis F., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry
Uhler, Michael D., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, also appointed Senior Associate
Research Scientist, Medical School
Zubieta, Jon K., from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Assistant Professor of Radiology, and
Assistant Research Scientist, Mental Health Research Institute to Assistant Professor of


363



