
Proceedings of the Board of Regents


July 1992


- June 1993


The University of Michigan




JULY MEETING, 1992


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 16, 1992
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, and Smith.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters was absent; Regent Varner arrived at about
1:20 P.M.
Chancellor, UM-Dearborn
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order, noting that this would be
Chancellor Blenda Wilson's last Regents' Meeting. He asked Chancellor Wilson
to introduce her successor. Chancellor Wilson introduced Professor Bernard
Klein, who will be serving as interim chancellor until a permanent chancellor is
named.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 13.11 (Board for Student Publications)
President Duderstadt observed that discussions had been ongoing for several years about how to restructure the oversight of student publications. He called
to the table Professor Gayl Ness and Mr. Noah Finkel, members of the Task
Force on the Future Governance of Student Publications. Professor Ness had
chaired the task force and Mr. Finkel is a former editor-in-chief of the Michigan
Daily.
Professor Ness reported that the task force had recognized the importance
of student control over student publications as well as the necessity for ensuring
the survival of the publications for future generations of students. The task force
had held two public hearings and had spoken to faculty committees, the current
board for student publications, the board's professional employees, and others,
and had collected information from other University publications.
Members of the task force came to the conclusion that the Board for Student Publications needs people who have both experience or technical expertise
in publications and a strong commitment to those publications. MSA and
SACUA selection of board members, as has been done in the past, do not
necessarily assure that kind of selection. The task force is proposing a selfnominating board as the best mechanism for obtaining the needed expertise and
commitment. The appointment authority would reside with the president, which
would provide a kind of check and balance to this procedure. He noted that in a
meeting with the task force in March, the current Board for Student Publications
had fully endorsed this proposal.




July Meeting, 1992


Following further comments, Professor Ness introduced Noah Finkel, a
1990 LSA graduate and current law student, who was editor of the Michigan
Daily in 1990 and was a member of the task force. Mr. Finkel observed that during his tenure on the Daily, the Board for Student Publications had constantly
interfered in the Daily's day-to-day operations, which hampered the students' independence and lessened the learning experience they could have gained. He also
explained the disadvantages of having board members who did not have personal
experience or interest in the Daily, and he noted that previous editorial staffs
had expressed the same opinions over the years. Mr. Finkel emphasized that the
type of self-perpetuating board now being proposed would assure the best educational experience for Daily staffers, while also assuring that final editorial control
would rest with the students.
Regent Power observed that he had been a Daily staff member when he was
a student at the University, and later had served on the Board for Student Publications. Two important things to consider are to avoid control of the Daily by
any group or ideology, and the question of journalistic quality as distinguished
from political ideology. He noted that about five years ago the Daily staff was
more interested in political ideology than the process of publishing a newspaper,
and that process almost caused the demise of the Daily's institutional credibility
on the campus.
Professor Ness recalled that after the Daily had been taken over by a group
with a certain political agenda, an opposing group had organized and retaken
control, shifting the orientation from political ideology to good journalism. He
viewed that as a good lesson for the students in the responsibility inherent in the
democratic process. The proposed board arangement would, in his view, facilitate this learning process, as it could guide the students toward exercising the
kind of leadership necessary to maintain professional journalistic values.
Regent Nielsen pointed out that the Daily has to be run as a business in
order for it to keep existing. In the past, the Daily's editorial content had gone
beyond what is acceptable in the normal news media. The boards in place during
those times were not effective in the educational process and the students were
not receptive to input from those boards. The current proposal is an attempt to
ensure accountability in both business and editorial matters. In response to concerns that action was being contemplated when students were away from campus, Regent Nielsen stated that University business cannot be dependent upon
when students are available. Regarding the concern that presidential appointments to the board would be used to control its political ideology, Regent Nielsen
stated that there has to be accountability. He suggested that perhaps having a
pool of potential board members involved in the newspaper business that the
president could choose from might avoid the appearance of the president trying
to "control" the board.
Regent Baker observed that some years ago, when the Daily was in precarious financial condition and was in danger of folding, the Regents arranged to
have people knowledgeable about the newspaper business work with the Daily to
solve its financial problems. If the Regents and administration had wanted to


2




July Meeting, 1992


"control" the Daily, they could have done so at that time; he reiterated that the
Regents have no desire or intention to do that.
Regent Brown agreed that in all the years of the Daily's existence, neither
the Regents nor administration have sought to control the Daily; the fear of this
is simply not realistic. He also noted that the bylaws could be changed at any
time to allow for this if the Regents so desired; however, it is also highly unlikely
that the administration and the Regents would ever be involved in running the
Daily in any way.
Regent Power spoke in favor of having Daily alumni as members of the
board, noting that they would be tougher than others would be and would cherish the institution. In addition, board members who are former Daily staffers
would have more credibility with students than would others who might have
been picked from a pool of nominees.
Regent Smith asked Professor Ness to elaborate on a statement he had
made that the proposed arrangement would help prevent control of the Daily's
being seized by the radical right or the radical left. He responded that the nine
individual board members would all have some expertise in and commitment to
student publications. They would therefore be committed to maintaining a board
with those characteristics, and would select people of that sort who are also willing to attend meetings. The self-nominating procedure provides the best mechanism for ensuring that board members will have the necessary competence and
commitment.
Regarding student input into the task force, Professor Ness noted that a
representative from MSA was on the task force last September, and that he and
other task force members had met with MSA's executive committee twice. On
March 25th, the task force's proposal was presented to MSA and all other interested parties; at that time, MSA was in complete accord with it.
Following further discussion, the president noted that action would be taken the following day, and turned to the next item of business.
Nontenure Track Clinical Appointment Sequences in the College of
Pharmacy and School of Dentistry
Provost Whitaker reported that the requests to establish nontenure clinical
appointment sequences in the College of Pharmacy and School of Dentistry had
in each case been recommended unanimously by the faculty and executive
committees of those schools. SACUA was in support of the College of Pharmacy
proposal but declined to endorse the School of Dentistry proposal because of
some members' concerns about the potential cumulative long-term impact of
these types of tracks. Provost Whitaker is in support of both proposals, but had
agreed to conduct a study of this issue to satisfy concerns that had been raised.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Provost Whitaker stated that
there would not be large numbers of people participating in the clinical track program. Following further discussion, Regent Varner moved, and Regent Nielsen
seconded, the establishment of nontenure track clinical appointment sequences


3




July Meeting, 1992


in the College of Pharmacy and the School of Dentistry. It was noted that approval of the motion would require subsequent revision of the Regents' Bylaws.
The vote was taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
1992-93 Ann Arbor General Fund Operating Budget
President Duderstadt called on Provost Whitaker to present the 1992-93
Ann Arbor General Fund Operating Budget.
Provost Whitaker reviewed the budget preparation process and timeline and
noted the four sources of General Fund revenue: state appropriation, tuition and
fees, indirect cost recovery, and investment income. The proposed 1992-93 General Fund Operating Budget calls for increases of $2.0 million in state appropriation, $25.8 in tuition and fees, and $3.4 million for the infrastructure
maintenance fee, and for estimated losses of about $3.0 million in indirect cost
recovery and about $3.3 million in the "other " category, which consists mainly
of investment income. The total recommended 1992-93 general fund operating
budget of $630.0 million represents an increase of $23.8 million (3.9 percent)
over the 1991-92 budget, and is one of the lowest increases in the past 30 years.
Provost Whitaker described the long-term goals of the budget as being to
enhance the quality of the institution by maintaining and enhancing access for
Michigan undergraduates, reducing the backlog of deferred infrastructure maintenance, enhancing the undergraduate educational experience, expanding the internationalization of programs, and providing reserves against potential
shortfalls in revenue. He described specific efforts underway to shift the locus of
responsibility and decision-making to the units as a means of encouraging the
efficient use of resources.
Provost Whitaker pointed out that the state appropriation currently supplies only about 41 percent of the General Fund, versus about 78 percent in the
1960s. He then reviewed the objectives for the 1992-93 budget, terming it a
"shared sacrifice". The incremental expenditures of $23.8 million include a general base budget reduction of 2 percent (-$12.8 million); fixed cost increases
($13.8 million); student financial aid ($12.0 million); minority faculty hiring program ($1.0 million), undergraduate initiatives ($2.3 million); international initiatives ($1.7 million), a special salary program for staff members making less than
$25,000 per year ($.8 million); other critical academic needs ($1.1 million); "passthrough" revenue ($0.8 million); a special adjustment in ICR accounts (-$1.1 million), and an infrastructure maintenance fee ($3.4 million). He noted that the
outcome of this shared sacrifice should be that budget goals will be met and
funds will be available for improved compensation in 1993-94.
Regarding the proposed increase in student tuition and fees, Provost Whitaker noted that the cost to a student attending the University is a combina- tion
of financial aid and tuition, and noted that financial aid is very important to a
large number of undergraduate students. He also pointed out that the cost to the
University of educating students is much higher than the actual amount of tuition. He reiterated the University's policy of meeting the demonstrated financial
need of all regularly-enrolled Michigan resident undergraduate students, and


4




July Meeting, 1992


pointed out that budgeted financial aid in the General Fund has steadily increased since 1981 in the face of decreasing federal support. He illustrated how
financial aid packages are configured for several typical students, and also
pointed out that public universities across the nation have had to implement
severe tuition and fee increases in 1991-92 and 1992-93 in the face of decreasing
state support.
Provost Whitaker gave other examples to illustrate the comparison of the
cost of education at the University of Michigan with that at peer institutions. He
announced a proposed tuition increase in most programs of 9.9 percent for resident undergraduates and 7.5 percent for nonresident undergraduates, along with
a registration fee increase of $20 per term and an additional infrastructur maintenance fee of $50 per term. Provost Whitaker also pointed out that steps are
being taken to lessen the gap between resident and nonresident tuition to eventually achieve a level of 35.0 percent.
Provost Whitaker responded to questions from Regent Baker about the
proposed use of the infrastructure maintenance fee. Regent Baker pointed out
that the increased student fees are necessary because state appropriations have
not been sufficient to meet the needs of the General Fund, and that in effect,
increasing portions of the costs of higher education have been transferred from
the state to students and families.
Provost Whitaker concluded his presentation by giving various comparisons
of the costs for Michigan first-year undergraduate students to attend the University of Michigan as opposed to other top universities. He observed that a 4.0
percent salary program would have required $16 million, which would require
either an additional across-the-board tuition increase of 7.2 percent or an additional 2.5-3.0 percent cut in unit budgets. The latter option would have led to
layoffs. He explained that the shared sacrifice notion was implemented instead,
which, combined with other measures being taken, should put the university in a
position to implement a salary program in the 1993-94 fiscal year.
President Duderstadt pointed out that even though the budget reflects a
zero increase in state appropriation, it is courageous, creative, and visionary,
because it continues to place the focus on enhancing access, enhancing the
educational experience provided students, maintaining the institution's infrastructure, and providing reserves to protect the institution against potential
shortfalls in revenue. He expressed regret over not being able to fund a salary
program, but said this "shared sacrifice" approach was thought to be preferable
to the alternative, which would have required major layoffs and would have been
much more painful in the long run.
Regent Nielsen observed that 20 to 30 percent of students' tuition goes
toward paying the financial aid for other students. He questioned the policy
ramifications of this.
President Duderstadt responded that no student pays the full cost of their
education; thus, none of the tuition dollars paid by parents are being used to
subsidize other students. The University is merely asking the families of those


5




July Meeting, 1992


students who have the capacity, to pay a larger portion of the fair share of the
cost of their education so that families with no capacity to pay can still have the
opportunity for higher education. Families who pay full tuition are not
subsidizing other families; higher education is subsidized through residents'
general tax obligations to the state.
Regent McFee pointed out that all of tuition money goes into one pot, the
General Fund, and is then taken out of that pot. She noted that education has
long been considered the key to upward mobility in our society, but neither the
state nor federal governments have been providing funds to provide this access.
Thus, more responsibility for this obligation is being left to individuals. Regent
McFee observed that the state is now at a crossroads in deciding how the University can continue as a public institution in the face of this reality.
President Duderstadt pointed out that the principle that the public should
support education through general tax revenues because it benefits all of society
has eroded over the past few decades. He noted that the state component of the
University's total operating budget for 1992-93 is only about 13 percent. To preserve the University's ability to serve the state's citizens in the future, it is necessary to take the budgetary measures that have been described.
Regent Varner noted that in the primary grades, some people don't pay
taxes but they still attend school, because of the national policy of providing public education to all, financed by property owners, some of whom pay far more
than others and don't receive additional benefit. Although nobody is pleased with
tuition increases, she believes that access is a priority and that people are concerned about the ability of their children to attend the University. A Michigan
education is a bargain compared with that provided by comparable institutions.
The University is asking families that are able to pay a higher portion of the tuition cost to do so; whereas families who are unable to pay are still benefiting
from being able to attend a public institution. She stated that it was unfair to
place the psychological burden on the less fortunate students that they are attending the University because someone else is paying part of their tuition.
Regent Brown observed that the state over the years has made the decision
to pay less and less of the cost of higher education at the University of Michigan.
Until the point is reached that tuition pays the entire cost of a resident education
and the state pays nothing, the argument cannot be made that one person's tuition is supporting another student He pointed out that one of the best things
about the University is its students' economic diversity, as well their ethnic diversity. The loss of students who could not afford to attend would lead to a poorer education for those who could afford to attend; the diversity is one reason for
the University's quality.
Regent Smith stated that she was concerned about middle class students,
and noted that the middle class student in the example in the Regents Communication had to take out a loan to finance her education, which constituted as
much of a burden to her family as to the economically deprived.


6




July Meeting, 1992


In response to a question from Regent Power, Provost Whitaker said that
the proportion of the tuition increase allocated to increases in financial aid is
about 46 percent, or $12 million, which is 8 percent of the General Fund. The entire financial aid budget is expended every year. Regent Power concluded that as
a public university, the University of Michigan has special obligations having to
do with access for all kinds of people, and it has demonstrated that it provides financial aid to middle class people, as well as people with very high and very low
incomes.
Regent Nielsen reiterated that loans taken out by middle income students
to pay their tuition are being used to subsidize financial aid for lower income people. Regent McFee pointed out that the issue is really an accounting problem; all
money comes from the General Fund, regardless of the particular stream of
money that has fed it. She suggested that it might be more forthright not to differentiate the various funding streams that make up the General Fund, as has
been the practice.
President Duderstadt pointed out that in private education, the dominant
cost is tuition, whereas in public education, housing, books, and other expenses
make up the dominant portion of the cost.
Provost Whitaker also noted that financial aid funding for the coming year
includes an increased proportion of gift aid, which decreases the proportion of
loan aid. He reiterated the University's determination to have all income classes
represented in the student body.
Regent Baker complimented Provost Whitaker on having devised a budget
that represents a rational solution to a difficult problem. Noting the central importance of faculty to the institution, he stated his concern that there will be no
increases in faculty salaries, and said he could support this situation for one year
only. Regent Baker asked for assurances that administration salaries would not
be increased either. President Duderstadt responded that they would not be. Provost Whitaker stated that the 1992-93 budget should provide a better opportunity
to increase salaries in the next fiscal year. President Duderstadt commented on
the outstanding contributions of all of the institution's employees, and noted the
University's obligation to provide them with a salary program which reflects
their efforts.
Following further comments, President Duderstadt called on Chancellor
Wilson to present the UM-Dearbom budget.
1992-93 UM-Dearborn General Fund Budget
Chancellor Wilson observed that the University of Michigan-Dearborn is affected by the fact that the level of state funding it receives is not comparable to
that of its peer institutions or to other Michigan public institutions, nor is its
funding level at all related to its enrollment. In addition, its tuition is high compared to that for other comprehensive regional institutions with which it must
compete, which is important because the majority of UM-Dearborn students do
not receive financial aid. She pointed out that over the past several years,


7




July Meeting, 1992


reallocation strategies have allowed modest salary enhancements, but the limit of
this technique has now been reached. The 1992-92 incremental budget of
$2,088,550 proposes no salary increases, except for lower paid staff and for faculty promotions, with the priority being to preserve jobs rather than to increase
salaries. The budget also calls for an infrastrucure fee of $10 per credit hour,
with a maximum of $60 per student The only increments in new personnel
(except for previous commitments in faculty appointments) will be in the area of
institutional advancement, given the importance of the campus' participating in
the capital campaign and ultimately increasing other funding sources.
1992-93 UM-Flint General Fund Budget
President Duderstadt called on Chancellor Jones to present the 1992-93
UM-Flint General Fund Budget.
Chancellor Jones noted that this is a very difficult budget, observing that
the UM-Flint could admit more students and better serve the community if more
funding were available. He also stated that because the campus had in past years
given the highest priority to access, it had increasingly relied on junior-level and
adjunct faculty, an option which has now been exhausted and must be addressed
in order to maintain quality. He credited the legislature and governor with having consistently given the Flint campus above-average increases in appropriation
over the past ten years; however, the decision had been made also during that
time to admit increasing numbers of students, which has created the current
budget situation.
Chancellor Jones reviewed the 1992-93 incremental General Fund budget of
$2,656,000. It calls for a state appropriation increase of $100,441, a tuition increase of 6.7 percent ($906,459), introduction of a $40 per semester infrastructure fee ($700,000), an enrollment increase ($350,000), and internal reallocation
of $600,000. Expenditures include a 3.2 percent salary program ($870,900), staff
benefits increases ($230,000), infrastructure maintenance ($400,000), student aid
($450,000), recharges ($50,000), and programmatic initiatives ($656,000).
The meeting recessed at 3:50 PM. and reconvened at 4:00 P.M. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Michelle Matelic, president of the UM Law Enforcement Association,
on labor relations; David Toland, president of the Graduate Employees Organization, on campus labor issues; Charles Tackett, citizen, on freedom of speech;
Judith Levy, bargaining chairperson of AFSCME Local 1583, on contract negotiations; Alice Hamele, citizen, on her problems with the School of Dentistry, Clair
H. Bell, assistant chief steward, and Stephen Jaynes, chief steward, UM Trades,
on contract negotiations; Jonathan I. Rose, alumnus, Matt Rennie, executive editor, Michigan Daily, and Andrew Long, summer editor in chief, Michigan Daily,
on the Michigan Daily and the Board for Student Publications.


8




July Meeting, 1992


Following Public Comments, the meeting recessed at 4:00 PM. until the following day.
Friday, July 17, 1992
The Regents met at 9:00 AM. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, Varner,
and Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and announced that the
University of Michigan Cybermotion K2A robot, "Carmel," had won the National Robotics Competition on July 16, 1992, in San Jose, California. The competition had been entered by an international team of undergraduate and graduate
students.
1992-93 Revenue Budgets and 1992-93 Student Fee Rates for All Three
Campuses
Regent Brown moved adoption of the 1992-93 revenue budgets and the
1992-93 student fee rates for the UM-Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses,
as described in the Regents Communications. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Provost Whitaker commented that the objective of this budget is to reposition the base budget towards our highest priorities. This budget proposes shared
sacrifices: reduced budgets to provide for reallocation, avoidance of layoffs with a
very modest salary program for only the lowest paid employees (except for union
wages, which are determined by contact negotiations), and higher tuition rates.
The budget allocation meets fixed costs, maintains and modestly improves access,
holds reserves against shortfalls in revenue predictions, and positions the year
1992-93 for the highest academic priorities and a decent compensation program.
Approval of the proposed tuition and fee increases will allow the University to
meet these budget projections.
Regent Baker commented that Provost Whitaker had done an admirable job
preparing the budget, and reiterated his comments from the previous day. He
stated that in the coming year he would point out things that he feels should be
examined for reductions in cost.
Regent Nielsen also complimented the provost and his staff, and again
expressed his concern about financial aid for low income families being
subsidized by middle income families with loans that need to be repaid, while
lower income families receive grants-in-aid, rather than loans. He expressed the
hope that the Board would examine this situation from a policy perspective in the
years to come.
Regent Power observed that this budget is a significant step forward because it begins to set in place a series of policy and managerial initiatives through


9




July Meeting, 1992


which the University can begin better to manage and understand both costs and
revenue.
Regent Varner commented that the budget shows that the University is not
getting adequate public support. In response to Regent Nielsen's comments, she
pointed out that Provost Whitaker's examples of actual financial aid packages
illustrated a low income student who accumulated loans higher than those of
middle and upper middle class students, which proves that middle class students
are not ending up with higher loans than the less advantaged students and that
most economically disadvantaged students leave the University with debt.
Regent Varner stated that middle class students pay a larger portion of their
share of the cost of their education, rather than supporting economically disadvantaged families. She pointed out that not many economically disadvantaged
students attend the University of Michigan; most of the recipients of financial aid
are middle class white students.
Regent Nielsen responded that the example provided of the low income student was not realistic, and stated his opinion that if no financial aid whatsoever
were offered, tuition would be reduced by 20 percent, which is a significant sum
of money to families striving to send their children to college.
Regent Varner commented that if there were no financial aid, the University of Michigan would be a school for only rich, white students. Without access as
an important goal, she would be unable to continue to support tuition increases.
She asserted that the issue is one of class, not race. Although more black students who attend the University may be in the economically disadvantaged class,
the bulk of financial aid goes to white students, because they make up the majority of students at the University. The University has an obligation and a mission
to educate all students in the state, regardless of their economic class, if they are
able to come here.
Further discussion ensued about the issue of access to the University of
Michigan.
Regent Brown agreed that the provost's examples do indicate the lowest income families having the highest loan payback obligation, with the majority of financial aid going to resident students. He pointed out that the University has
always had financial aid, which goes to those with the greatest need, and the
Board has taken the position that no student would be prohibited from going to
the University of Michigan because of financial need. If there were no financial
aid, there would be no students attending the University from lower economic
classes.
Regent Power noted that the financial aid budget makes up only eight percent of the General Fund. The issue is how the Board chooses to allocate the pool
of resources that comprise the General Fund. As a public university, the University has an obligation to all citizens, and especially those in the middle class who
are struggling to attend.


10




July Meeting, 1992


Regent Smith commended Provost Whitaker for his presentation, and
pointed out that families are sacrificing a great deal to put their students through
the University. She requested that the University's financial aid policy be communicated to middle class students; Provost Whitaker pointed out that all
students receive the same information about financial aid. He also noted that the
financial aid package is adjusted individually each year as costs and family financial situations change.
There was further discussion about the issue of financial aid. Regent Waters
commented that in the example provided for a low income student from a fourperson family with an income of $10,000, it is unconscionable that this student
should have to contribute $1,100 and also have to work and receive a loan. This
type of burden would lead to increased dropout ratios; he believes financial aid
should be increased to decrease the burden on lower income students. The president pointed out that a task force is investigating the impact of financial aid
packages on attrition.
Following further discussion on this issue, the vote was taken and the
1992-93 revenue budgets and student fee rates for all three campuses, as described in the Regents Communications, were approved unanimously.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 13.11 (Board for Student Publications)
Regent Power moved revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 13.11 (Board for
Student Publications) so as to change the composition of the Board for Student
Publications, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion.
Regent Smith said that students' input should be considered before action is
taken on matters that concern them. She moved that consideration of this matter
be tabled until September. Regent Baker seconded the motion.
President Duderstadt observed that this proposal has had extensive student
involvement over the past year. It is important for the matter to be resolved at
this meeting so that the new board can be appointed in time for the beginning of
the fall semester.
Regent Brown pointed out that a motion to table is not debatable; Regent
Smith withdrew her motion and Regent Baker withdrew his second.
Regent Power commented that there had been extensive discussion of this
matter for the past one and one-half years, so he saw no reason to delay action at
this time. In response to a question from Regent Smith about whether she
thought there had been sufficient student input, Vice President Hartford said
that the current president of MSA had not been involved with MSA last year, so
she wasn't aware of the extensive discussion that had occurred. She believes that
the students most affected by an issue should be most heavily involved in any decision regarding it, and in this case, students involved in student publications
were in agreement that the bylaw should be changed.


11




July Meeting, 1992


Regent Smith moved to table the item; Regent Baker seconded the motion.
This motion failed, with Regent Smith in favor and the other seven Regents opposed. The vote was then taken on Regent Power's motion to amend Regents'
Bylaw Section 13.11. It was approved, with Regents Baker, Brown, McFee,
Nielsen, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor, and Regent Smith abstaining. The
revised text of Bylaw Section 13.11 is as follows:
Sec. 13.11. The Board for Student Publications
The Board for Student Publications is an agency of the Board of Regents of the
University and as such has authority and control over all nontechnical newspapers,
magazines, periodicals, programs, and other publications edited, managed, or promoted by students or student organizations of the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
for local sale or circulation.
The Board for Student Publications shall have nine members. At least four members shall be selected from alumni of the University student publications, and at least
three members shall be selected from the University community, which includes students, faculty, and staff. Each member shall serve for three years. Members may serve
no more than two consecutive terms. The editors in chief and the business managers of
the governed publications shall serve ex-officio on the board without vote.
The president of the University shall appoint the nine members of the initial
board, three each for terms of one, two and three years. The president shall seek nominations widely from publications alumni, members of the University community and
members of the community at large for the initial board members. Thereafter, the
board shall choose three new members each year and present them as nominations to
the president, who shall have power of appointment.
Whenever a vacancy on the board occurs, it shall be announced, and calls for
nominations and applications for appointment shall be widely advertised. Appointment
shall be by the board. Such interim appointment shall expire at the end of the term of
office of the board member replaced
The officers of the board shall consist of a chair and a secretary/treasurer. The
chair shall be nominated by the board through an internal election. The board will
present its nomination to the president of the University for appointment; the secretary/reasurer shall be designated by the board
The Board for Student Publications shall have full authority with respect to the
assets, budget, financial, and legal affairs of the corporation. The board shall also have
the authority to consider its scope and to increase or decrease the number of publications over which it has authority. In all other matters, including editorial control, the
board shall act in an advisory capacity. The Daily staff shall consult with the board
with respect to the appointment of the senior editors. The details of the consultation
shall be devised jointly by the Daily and the board to the mutual satisfaction of both.
The board shall adopt written operating procedures for all of its functions and
responsibilities. These shal include the number of publications over which it exercses
control, the procedures for advertising vacant positions and selecting nominees, the
procedures for the election and term of the chair, the position descriptions and supervisory pr    res for professional emplyees, and the processes by which any of these procedures may be changed.
The bylaws of the Board for Student Publications shall provide that all surplus
funds above an amount sufficient for properly conducting the business of the board be
invested through the Investment Office of the University. Such securities and funds
derived therefrom shall constitute a trust fund for the general purposes connected with
student publications and shall be subject to the controof the Bard of Regents. All its
bylaws shall be consistent with the Bylaws of the Board of Regents.


12




July Meeting, 1992


Minutes
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of June 11, 1992.
Regent Nielsen left the meeting at this point, at 9:55 AM.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations, and Non-Competitive
Purchases over $2,000, and responded to questions from the Regents about several of the reports.
Vice President Kelly submitted reports on Projects Established-Research
and Other Activities, and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Voluntary Support
There was no report of voluntary support this month.
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1992
Brian H. Clarkson, Ph.D., Professor of Dentistry
Jacquelynne S. Eccles, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology
Manoussos Grillakis, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics
L. Rowell Huesmann, Ph.D., Professor of Communication
Arnold J. Sameroff, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology
David R. Williams, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Sociology
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
Mary A Carroll, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College
of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Thomas J. Kulik, M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 1, 1992
Yue-Ying Lau, Ph.D., Professor of Nuclear Engineering


13




July Meeting, 1992


Achiahu Ludomirksy, M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 1, 1992
Robert E. Megginson, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
Mathew Alpern, Professor Emeritus of Physiological Optics in the Departments of
Ophthalmology and Physiology and Professor Emeritus of Psychology, reappointed to
active status, one-year term
Isadore A Bernstein, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, and Professor
Emeritus of Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health, reappointed to
active status, one-year term
David F. Bohr, Professor Emeritus of Physiology, reappointed to active status, one-year term
John C. Dann, Director, William L. Clements Library of American History, and Adjunct
Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed Director,
William L. Clements Library of American History, five-year term, August 1, 1992
Sheila C. Feld, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, and Interim Associate Dean, School of
Social Work, appointment extended as Interim Associate Dean, School of Social Work,
one-year term
Samuel P. Hicks, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to active status, one-year term,
September 1, 1992
Leslie Kish, Professor Emeritus of Sociology and Research Scientist Emeritus, reappointed to
active status, one-year term, retroactive from January 1, 1992
Bert N. LaDu, Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, reappointed to active status, one-year term
John P. Langmore, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, Associate Research Biophysicist and Chair, Biophysics Research Division,
reappointed Chair, Biophysics Research Division, three-year term, September 1, 1992
Paul R. Lehman, Professor of Music, with tenure, and Senior Associate Dean, School of Music,
and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, reappointed Senior Associate Dean, School
of Music, three-year term, September 1, 1992
Edwin L. Miller, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School
of Business Administration, appointment extended as Associate Dean, School of Business
Administration, three-year term
Cecil G. Miskel, Professor of Education, with tenure, and Dean, School of Education, reappointed
Dean, School of Education, five-year term, September 1,1993
Glenda Radine, Interim Director, University of Michigan Extension Service, appointment
extended as Interim Director, University of Michigan Extension Service, one-year term
Maxwell 0. Reade, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to active status, university
year, September 1, 1992
Herbert Sloan, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, one-year term
William B. Taylor, Professor Emeritus of Dermatology, reappointed to active status, one-year
term
Kenneth E. Vance, Professor Emeritus of Library Science and Education, reappointed to active
status, fall term 1992
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1992, unless othewise indicated
Charles J. Krause, Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, and Senior Associate Dean,
Medical School, also appointed Chief of Clinical Affairs, three-year term
Stephen J. Milles, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, also
appointed Acting Chair, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn,
one-year term, September 1, 1992


14




July Meeting, 1992


L. Nathan Oaklander, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint, also appointed Chair,
Department of Philosophy, UM-Flint, three-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Suzanne F. Grefsheim, two-year term ending July 31, 1994, vice Gay A Delanghe, term expired
Larry D. Nooden, two-year term ending July 31, 1994, vice Joel D. Howell, term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Percy Bates, five-year term ending June 30, 1997, to succeed himself
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Stephen M. Pollock, four-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Robert I. Carr, term expired
Fawwaz T. Ulaby, one-year term ending June 30, 1993, vice N. Harris McClamroch, resigned
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Penny F. Pierce, three-year term ending June 30, 1995, vice Allen C. Brown, term expired
Richard D. Woods, three-year term ending June 30, 1995, vice Leon A Pastalan, term expired
University of Michigan Hosital Executive Board
Tadataka Yamada, four-year term ending June 30, 1996, to succeed himself
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Joseph G. Horonzy, four-year term ending June 30, 1996, new appointment
UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisory Board
Olive Beasley, three-year term ending May 31, 1995, to succeed herself
Al Cook, three-year term ending May 31, 1995, to succeed himself
James Granberry, three-year term ending May 31, 1995, to succeed himself
Carol Hinterman, three-year term ending May 31, 1995, to succeed herself
Jan Nieuwenhuis, three-year term ending May 31, 1995, to succeed herself
D. Maynard Phelps Collegiate Professor of Business Administration. The Regents approved the appointment of Thomas C. Kinnear as the D.
Maynard Phelps Collegiate Professor of Business Administration for a three-year
term, effective September 1, 1992.
Interim Director of Affirmative Action. The Regents approved the appointment of Jimmy A Myers as interim director of affirmative action, effective
July 1, 1992.
Interim Assistant Dean, School of Social Work. The Regent approved
the appointment of Clarita Mays as interim assistant dean of student and multicultural affairs in the School of Social Work, effective July 1,1992.
Leave of Absence Extension. The Regents approved extension of the
leave of absence for Richard W. Weber, M.D., associate professor of internal
medicine, through May 10, 1993.
Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professorship in Business Administration. The Regents approved the establishment of the Sanford R. Robertson
Assistant Professorship in Business Administration, in the School of Business
Administration, effective August 1, 1992.
Sylvia L. Thrupp Professorship of Anthropology and Women's
Studies. The Regents approved changing the name of the Sylvia L. Thrupp


15




July Meeting, 1992


Professorship in Anthropology to the Sylvia L. Thrupp Professorship of Anthropology and Women's Studies, effective September 1, 1992.
Theodore M. Newcomb Distinguished University Professor of
Psychology. The Regents approved the appointment of Richard E. Nisbett as
the Theodore M. Newcomb Distinguished University Professor of Psychology, effective September 1, 1992.
Joseph Edgar Maddy Distinguished University Professor of Music.
The Regents approved the appointment of George Shirley as the Joseph Edgar
Maddy Distinguished University Professor of Music, effective September 1, 1992.
Interim appointment approval. The Regents authorized the president
or the provost and vice president for academic affairs to make such interim appointments and/or changes as may become necessary from August 1-31, 1992, to
complete the staffing for the fall term 1992.
Associate Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students. The Regents approved a change in the title of E. Royster Harper to
associate vice president for student affairs and dean of students, effective August
1, 1992.
Associate Dean of Students, Activities and Programming Portfolio. The Regents approved the establishment of the position of associate dean of
students, activities and programming portfolio, effective August 1, 1992.
Associate Dean of Students, Counseling and Special Services Portfolio. The Regents approved the establishment of the position of associate dean
of students, counseling and special services portfolio, effective August 1, 1992.
Associate Dean of Students, Multicultural Portfolio. The Regents
approved the establishment of the position of associate dean of student, multicultural portfolio, effective August 1, 1992.
Vice President Hartford responded to questions from Regent Baker about
the newly established associate dean positions in the Office of the Vice President
for Student Affairs. Following some discussion, it was suggested that Vice President Hartford make a presentation to the Board in the near future about reorganization and other new initiatives occurring in her office.
Regent Waters left the meeting at this point, at 10:15 AM.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Shannon W. Anderson, AM., Lecturer in Accounting


16




July Meeting, 1992


Mary Y. Brannen, M.BA, Lecturer in International Business and Organizational Behavior and
Human Resource Management
Ronald D. Thompson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics and Management Science,
January 1, 1992
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Susan E. Alcock, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Classical Archaeology and Classics
Santiago Colas, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish and Latin American Literature
Gregory Dobrov, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin
Edward L. Gibson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science
John D. Huber, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science
Robert D. Pahre, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science
Jonathan M. Reynolds, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art
David M. Scobey, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History and American Culture
Peter L. Toogood, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Brenda L. Volling, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Medical School
Kenneth J. Adelman, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, August 1, 1992
G. Patrick Connor, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1992
Stephen L. Eck, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Eric H. Radany, M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1992
Satinder K. Sandhu, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1992
Amy F. Saunders, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Mark A Washnock, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1992
School of Music
Dickran Atamian, Assistant Professor of Music (Piano)
Annette A Masson, M.FA, Assistant Professor of Theatre
Steven M. Witing, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology)
UM-Dearborn Collee of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Steffany G. Ellis, Ph.D., Lecturer in Economics
Jacqueline Vansant, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of German
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENT
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Medical School
Nancy R. Barbas, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Neurology, October 1, 1991 (previously
reported as Lecturer)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Francoise G. Jaffe, from Assistant Professor to Visiting Assistant Professor of Marketing,
July 1, 1992
Law School
Rochelle E. Lento, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, retroactive from
September 1, 1991-June 30,1992
Medical School
Kunliang Guan, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, June 1, 1992


17




July Meeting, 1992


School of Public Health
Robin Barlow, from Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Population Planning and International Health, without tenure,
School of Public Health, to Professor of Population Planning and International Health,
without tenure, School of Public Health, September 1, 1992
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effectie on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Norman E. Barnett, Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
School of Business Administration
Kim S. Cameron, Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, with
tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor of Higher Education, without
tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
LaRue T. Hosmer, Professor of Corporate Strategy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31,1993
Kerk L. Phillips, Assistant Professor of International Business and Business Administration,
leave without salary, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Valerie Y. Suslow, Assistant Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1993
CoUege of Engineering
Thomas C. Adamson, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1, 1992-January 31,1993
Bernard A Galler, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1993-May 31,1994
J. Wayne Jones, Associate Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Ralph A Loomis, Professor of English, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1992 -May 31,1993
Trevor N. Mudge, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Dimitris Pavlidis, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Timothy M. Vogel, Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, leave without
salary, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
School of Information and Library Studies
Robert M. Warner, Professor of Library Science, with tenure, School of Information and Library
Studies, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
administrative leave, July 1-December 31, 1992, and leave without salary, January 1 -March 31, 1993
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Tomas Almaguer, Associate Professor of Sociology and American Culture, with tenure, personal
leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Eric A Bermann, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Mark Gersovitz, Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Mark W. Gross, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31,1993
Virginia C. Kane, Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Douglas L. Medin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31,1993


18




July Meeting, 1992


A F. K. Organski, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, duty off campus, May 12 -June 11, 1992
Stephen W. Salant, Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Jonathan S. Simon, Assistant Professor of Political Science, leave without salary,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Edward E. Smith, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31,1993
Ernest J. Wilson III, Associate Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, leave
without salary, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
David G. Winter, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Robert B. Zajonc, Charles Horton Cooley Distinguished University Professor of Social
Sciences, with tenure, and Director, Institute for Social Research, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-August 31, 1993
Medical School
Mary V. Marx, Assistant Professor of Radiology, extended sick leave, April 28-June 7, 1992
Marina Mata, Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992- August 31, 1993
College of Pharmacy
Frank J. Ascione, Associate Professor of Pharmacy Administration, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
July 1, 1992-June 30, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences and Letters
Paul M. Hughes, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -April 30, 1993
Donald M. Levin, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1993
Ronald P. Morash, Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, and Chair, Department
of Mathematics and Statistics, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-April 30, 1993
Sheryl S. Pearson, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,1992
William J. Thomson, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-April 30,1993
UM-Dearborn School of Manaement
Arefaine Ghebre-Yohannes, Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Theophilus S. Lynch, Professor of Spanish and Comparative Literature, with tenure, retrement
furlough, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Emilie P. Smith, Assistant Professor of Psychology, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Business Administration
Roger C. Kormendi, Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993 (previously reported as
September 1-December 31,1992)
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Robert M. Groves, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, Intergovernmental Personnel
Assignment, June 19, 1990-February 28, 1993 (previously reported as June 19, 1990 -February 28, 1992)


19




July Meeting, 1992


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective June 30,1992, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Poppy L. McLeod, Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior, August 31, 1992
Brian T. Pentland, Assistant Professor of Business Administration and Organizational Behavior
School of Dentistry
H. Dexter Barber, Jr., Lecturer in Dentistry
Fred L. Bye, Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Jeffrey W. Easton, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30,1992
Samuel J. Frydenlund, Lecturer in Dentistry
Sue A Janusz, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1992
George W. Knight, Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Jeffrey E. Persico, Lecturer in Dentistry
School of Edcation
William J. McGinley, Assistant Professor of Education
College of Engineering
Chaitanya K. Baru, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
May 31, 1992
Division of Kinesioloy
Guy G. Reiff, Professor of Movement Science, with tenure, May 31, 1992
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Halim Hardjadimulja, Lecturer in Asian Languages and Cultures, May 31,1992
Kai Hauser, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1992
Janise G. Honeyman, Lecturer in English, May 31, 1992
Rosa Q. Huang, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1992
Alexander J. Izzo, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Kenneth P. Langton, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, May 31, 1992
Robert R. Lewis, Professor of Physics, May 31, 1992
Kenneth A Lockridge, Professor of History, with tenure, May 31, 1992
Margaret J. Marshall, Lecturer in English, May 31, 1992
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Professor of Psychology
Ronen Peretz, Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Brian G. Scholtens, Lecturer in Biology, August 31,1992
Edward A Shpiz, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathemaics, May 31,1992
Wing-Keung To, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1992
Robin E. Wells, Assistant Professor of Economics, May 31, 1992
Medical School
Eugene L. Alford, Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology
Richard A Axtell, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, May 31, 1992
Hugh Calkins, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Mont J. Cartwright, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6,1992
Charles R. Dibb, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Barry I. Eisenstein, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, and Professor of
Internal Medicine, without tenure
Thomas E. Elkins, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Douglas M. Ellinger, Lecturer in Radiology
Francis Y. Falck, Jr., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1992
Christopher C. Fitzpatrick, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Steven Forche, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
Joel W. Godard, Lecturer in Surgery and Lecturer in Internal Medicine
John R. G. Gosling, Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, May 25,1992
Roger F. Haskett, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Shaun P. Healy, Clinical Instructor H in Internal Medicine
Jonathan M. Holmes, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6,1992
Jeffrey C. Kalt, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1992
Lenore Kaplan, Clinical Instructor II in Surgery, June 15, 1992
Thomas B. Klein, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1992


20




July Meeting, 1992


Dean D. Krahn, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, June 16, 1992
Kelvin P. Lee, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
John F. Mathews, Lecturer in Radiology
Daniel E. McGrail, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 12, 1992
Loren T. Niklason, Assistant Professor of Radiological Sciences, June 19, 1992
Amy L. M. O'Donnell, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Michael S. Parmacek, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Rachel M. Podrazik, Lecturer in Surgery, June 23,1992
Charles I. Price, Lecturer in Radiology
Gabriella C. Pridjian, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Edward V. Prochownik, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure
Mark W. Rolfe, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Michael B. Shapiro, Lecturer in Surgery
Gregory L. Skuta, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology
Scott R. Sneed, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, June 12, 1992
Mindy B. Statter, Lecturer in Surgery, June 24, 1992
Venetia G. Vassiliades, Instructor in Radiology, July 13,1992
Milton F. White, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1992
Nancy J. Wilson, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine
School of Music
John Gutoskey, Lecturer in Theatre, May 31, 1992
School of Nursing
Sandra L. Rozendal, Lecturer in Nursing, May 31, 1992
Deborah J. Stiffer, Lecturer in Nursing, May 31, 1992
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences and Letters
James C. Foster, Dean and Professor of History, with tenure, May 31, 1992
Diana J. Schaub, Lecturer in Political Science, April 30, 1992
William M. Spurgeon, Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, without tenure
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Edward M. Bowden, Assistant Professor of Psychology, May 31,1992
Mary A Cooper, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Samuel K. Clark, professor of mechanical engineering and applied mechanics, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1992.
A native of Ypsilanti, Professor Clark earned his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in engineering from the University of Michigan in 1946, 1948, and 1951, respectively. He worked as an engineer in the aircraft and automotive industries
for five years before beginning his academic career as an assistant professor at
Case Institute of Technology in Cleveland in 1952. He joined the University of
Michigan as an assistant professor of engineering mechanics in 1955; he was promoted to associate professor in 1957 and professor in 1959.
Professor Clark's research interests spanned a number of areas, but his
greatest contributions have been his studies related to aircraft and automotive
tires. His research has been sponsored by major rubber, automobile, and aircraft
companies as well as by the U.S. Air Force, NASA, NSF, and the Department of
Transportation. The author of over 100 journal articles and research reports, in
1971 Professor Clark wrote a monograph for the U.S. Bureau of Standards on
"Mechanics of Pneumatic Tires." In 1979, he and a colleague were granted a


21




July Meeting, 1992


patent for a tire bead inspection machine. In honor of his many achievements, he
was named a fellow of the Society of Automotive Engineers in 1985.
In addition to his research work, Professor Clark served as director of the
undergraduate materials testing laboratory from 1957-78, developed popular
courses in composite materials and experimental stress analysis, and was the
dynamics course leader. He served on numerous departmental committees,
chaired the college's Placement Advisory Committee, Mechanics Coordinating
Committee, and Nominating Committee, and also served on the Admissions
Advisory Committee, the review committee for the aerospace department, and
the College of Engineering Executive Committee. On the University level, he has
served as chair of the University Relations Committee and as a member of the
Scholastic Standing Committee. He is a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Association of University Professors, the Society for Experimental Stress Analysis, the Society of Automotive Engineers, and
the National Materials Advisory Board Committee on Surface Effect Vehicles,
and served as associate editor of the Journal of Lubrication Technology from
1973-79.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming Samuel K Clark Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics.
William 0. Dobbins mI, M.D., professor of internal medicine, will retire
from active faculty status on August 31, 1992, after a very productive career.
Dr. Dobbins studied at Davidson College, North Carolina, before entering
the Medical College of Alabama where he graduated first in his class in 1957. He
served his internship at Bellevue Hospital (Cornell Medical Division) in New
York before completing his residency in medicine and a fellowship in gastroenterology at the University of Washington Affiliated Hospitals. In 1965, Dr. Dobbins was appointed assistant professor at Duke University Medical Center, he
was promoted to associate professor and chief of medical service at Durham Veterans Administration Hospital in 1968. The following year, he joined George
Washington University Medical Center as an associate professor of medicine and
was made director of the division of gastroenterology in 1970. He was promoted
to professor of medicine in 1973.
In 1979, Dr. Dobbins came to Ann Arbor as a professor of internal medicine
at the University of Michigan Medical Center and as associate chief of staff
(research) of the Veterans Administration Medical Center. Under his leadership,
the research program at the VA Hospital has been revitalized and the GI Division, with Dr. Dobbins' contribution, has become one of the nation's most prominent programs.
Dr. Dobbins is recognized as the world authority on Whipple's disease and
has written what is considered the definitive text on this topic. He provided the
first detailed description of bacterial characteristics in Whipple's disease. His
article on the natural history and treatment of CNS manifestation of Whipple's
disease is considered the most authoritative discussion on this subject, and the
treatment recommendation remains the standard practice. Dr. Dobbins is also an
internationally renowned histopathologist, whose article on in vitro characterization of human intestinal intraepithelial lymphocytes represents the first detailed


22




July Meeting, 1992


description of this subject His research efforts have helped to define the gastrointestinal histopathologic features of the immune suppressed host. Dr. Dobbins is
also an astute clinician and inspiring teacher, whose lectures on gastrointestinal
histopathology are well attended by both GI fellows and faculty. His recent
monograph, "Diagnostic Pathology of the Intestinal Mucosa," is considered
among the finest on this subject matter and is widely used by gastroenterologists
and pathologists.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher for his
dedicated service by naming William 0. Dobbins III Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
Kenneth P. Langton, associate professor of political science in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and associate research scientist in the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, retired from active faculty status on May
31, 1992, after 27 years at the University of Michigan.
Professor Langton earned his B.A degree from the University of Washington in 1956 and his M.A and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Oregon in
1962 and 1965, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan as an assistant
professor in 1965, was promoted to associate professor in 1969, and was granted
tenure in 1970. He became affiliated with ILIR in 1988. In addition to his positions at the University of Michigan, he also has served as a program advisor for
South America for the Ford Foundation and as a visiting research professor at
FLASCO in Santiago, Chile. Professor Langton has received numerous research
grants from the Ford Foundation, the National Science Foundation, the National
Institute of Mental Health, the U.S. Office of Education, and the Earhart
Foundation for his studies of political socialization and participation.
Professor Langton's work began with widely published studies of political
socialization in America which expanded to the study of the processes of
socialization in Latin America. His work wedded political science surveys and
psychological theories as a means of analyzing the motives for and nature of political participation. These studies extended as well to analyses of workplace democracy in such areas as the coal mining industry in Peru. Professor Langton
was a fine educator whose courses for undergraduates consistently earned strong
evaluations, and who guided numerous graduate students through to their own
Ph.D.s.
The Regents now salute this able political scientist for his dedicated service
by naming Kenneth P. Langton Associate Professor Emeritus of Political Science
and Associate Research Scientist Emeritus.
Robert R. Lewis, Jr., professor of physics, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1992, after a notable career as a teacher and researcher.
Born in New Haven, Connecticut, Professor Lewis attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an undergraduate before transferring to the University of Michigan where he received his B.S. (with a double major in
mathematics and physics), M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in 1950, 1953, and 1954, respectively. He became an assistant professor of physics at the University of Notre
Dame in 1954. In 1956, he was given a visiting appointment in the School of
Mathematics in the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University, where


23




July Meeting, 1992


he was well-regarded by some of the most distinguished physicists in the world,
including C. N. Yang, A Pais, and R. Oppenheimer. Professor Lewis joined the
University of Michigan Department of Physics in 1958 as an assistant professor,
he was promoted to associate professor in 1960 and to professor in 1965.
Professor Lewis is a theorist whose work has focused on problems in atomic
physics, low-energy physics, and the physics of weak interactions. His contributions are notable for their range and depth, particularly in the use of symmetries
to attack very fundamental problems. He has long been noted for effective collaborations with experimentalists, and even now continues to be a valued member of several collaborations with atomic, molecular, and optical experimentalists
at the University of Michigan and elsewhere.
As a researcher, Professor Lewis made important advances in the study of
parity violating interactions, in neutrino physics, in optical pumping and level
crossing spectroscopy, and most recently in the study of anapole moments. As a
teacher, he was for many years a mainstay of the department's introductory
graduate curriculum. He served on a variety of departmental and University
committees, including the Physics Executive Committee. He has held visiting appointments at Brookhaven National Laboratory, Rutherford Laboratory, Argonne National Laboratory, the University of Geneva, and the Institute of
Theoretical Physics at Stony Brook. In 1990, he was chair of the 12th International Conference of Atomic Physics.
The Regents now salute this accomplished theorist for his dedicated service
by naming Robert R. Lewis, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Physics.
Oliver E. Overseth, Jr., professor of physics, will retire from active faculty status on July 31, 1992, after a highly productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of New York City, Professor Overseth graduated from the
University of Chicago with a B.S. degree in physics in 1953. He received his
Ph.D. degree in physics from Brown University in 1958. He subsequently served
as an instructor and then research associate at Princeton University.
In 1961, Professor Overseth joined the faculty at the University of Michigan
as an assistant professor of physics; he was promoted to associate professor in
1965 and to professor in 1968. During this period, he was one of several young
faculty who helped raise Michigan to a position of leadership in the growing and
then relatively new field of high energy physics. Professor Overseth's primary
research interest was in the properties of elementary particles which contained
the "strange" quark. In a celebrated series of experiments at the Fermi National
Accelerator Laboratory, his group observed and studied the polarization of a class
of elementary particles known as hyperons in their production at energies of 200
to 400 GeV. Many of his group's determinations of the production, decay
parameters, and magnetic moments of hyperons remain today as the best
published measurements. More recently, his research has been centered at the
European Laboratory for Particle Physics (CERN), where he has continued his
experimental program in elementary particle research.
Professor Overseth was among the best teachers in the Department of Physics: demanding, conscientious, and gifted, particularly in large lecture courses
where he demonstrated a special ability. He took a keen interest in teaching at all


24




July Meeting, 1992


levels and continually worked to improve the department's educational program.
His undergraduate students were exceptionally well-prepared for subsequent
education. His doctoral students have gone on to successful careers on the faculties of major universities where they continue to bear witness to his outstanding
training.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physicist for his dedicated service
by naming Oliver E. Overseth, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Physics.
Memorial
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
voted unanimously to adopt the following memorial statement:
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the death of John L. Kemink, M.D., interim associate chair and professor
of otorhinolaryngology, and director, Division of Otology, Neurootology and
Skull Base Surgery in the Department of Otorhinolayngology, Medical SchooL
Dr. Kemink was born in Muskegon, Michigan, on September 4, 1949. He received his B.A degree from Hope College in Holland, Michigan, in 1971. He then
attended the University of Michigan Medical School and received his M.D. degree
in 1975. Following his general surgical residency at Moffitt Hospital in San
Francisco, Dr. Kemink returned to the University of Michigan to complete his
residency in otolaryngology and a fellowship in otology, neurootology, and skull
base surgery. Dr. Kemink joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as an
instructor in 1981 and rapidly progressed through the academic ranks. He was
appointed as an assistant professor in 1982 and was promoted to associate professor in 1986. In 1991, the Regents approved Dr. Kemink's promotion to full
professor, with tenure.
In his shortened career, Dr. Kemink authored more than one hundred
scholarly publications in medical journals and books, edited a textbook, and
served on the editorial review boards of six medical journals. He had been a coinvestigator on NIH funded cochlear prosthesis research since 1985, and was
called upon on two occasions to testify before congressional appropriations committees regarding expanded funding for deafness and communications disorders.
His honors and awards were many. Dr. Kemink received the 1987 Program of
the Year Award from the University of Michigan Hospitals for the Cochlear Implant Program. He was selected for the Galens Faculty Honorary Award from
1990-92, and was awarded the American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and
Neck Surgery Honor Award in 1990. Most recently, in February 1992, he was
named one of the ten best pediatric specialists in America by Child Magazine,
and this past spring Hope College honored him with its Distinguished Alumni
Award.
Dr. Kemink was recognized as a remarkable leader, gifted physician, and
outstanding teacher, not only in the medical center but internationally. Under
his direction, the neurootology program at the University of Michigan became
widely known as the premier academic program of its type in the world. He
served as director of the Department of Otorhinolaryngology medical student
education programs, and had been recently appointed co-director of the third


25




July Meeting, 1992


year Medical School curriculum. As a teacher and mentor, he was sought out and
praised by medical students, residents, and fellows alike.
Dr. Kemink will be sorely missed by those who had the privilege of knowing
him. The academic and medical communities, particularly the field of hearing
and communicative disorders, are significantly lessened by his departure. As we
mourn the loss of this distinguished scholar, surgeon, teacher, and friend, we
unite in extending our condolences to Dr. Kemink's wife Janet, daughter Lauren,
son John, and the rest of his family.
Degrees
Regent Smith moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, the following 1) the final degree lists for the May 1992 commencements; 2) the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies doctoral degree list
for August 1992; and 3) certain specified changes to previously approved degree
lists.
Honorary Degrees
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved several recommendations for recipients of honorary degrees.
Randall Laboratory Addition
Vice President Womack called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, who
used schematic drawings, photographs, and architectural models to illustrate the
design and placement of the planned Randall Laboratory addition.
Following some discussion, Regent Baker moved approval of the design of
the addition to the Randall Laboratory and authorization of completion of the
contract documents. Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it was adopted
unanimously.
There followed a fifteen-minute recess, and the meeting reconvened at 10:50
AM. with Regents Baker, McFee, Power, Smith, and Varner in attendance.
Student Fee Allocations for the Michigan Union, Michigan League,
North Campus Commons, and Recreational Sports
Regent McFee moved that authority be granted to the provost and vice
president for academic affairs to establish an annual budget allocation to cover
the operation and debt service support of the Michigan Union, Michigan League,
North Campus Commons, and Recreational Sports. Regent Baker seconded the
motion, and following some discussion, it was approved unanimously.
Common Stock Manager Guidelines
Vice President Womack explained that the University's investment advisors, Cambridge Associates, had recommended changes in the way the managers
are allowed to look at the universe of stocks that are available, without the imposition of stock quality rating restrictions that currently exist, as described in


26




July Meeting, 1992


the Regents Communication. The recommendation has also been discussed with
the Investment Advisory Committee. Regent Power moved that the University's
equity managers be permitted to invest University Endowment Fund assets
without imposition of stock quality rating restrictions which may interfere with
their management styles or with their ability to take advantage of market options. Regent Varner seconded the motion, and following some discussion, it was
adopted unanimously.
Partial Refinancing of $126,075,000 Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series
1986A
Vice President Womack explained that the result of the refinancing of the
Hospital Revenue Bonds will be to lower the interest rate cost by at least $2.5
million. He also noted that this is the portion of the hospital debt that is the Regents' debt, as opposed to the portion of the debt belonging to the State Building
Authority.
Regent Smith moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, adoption of the following resolution which authorizes the vice president and chief financial officer to 1) develop with the underwriters the terms and
legal documentation for the bonds, and to prepare, circulate, and execute preliminary and final official statements describing the bonds, the University, the Hospital, and its' affairs; and 2) apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service
and Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and 3) obtain a
final proposal for the bonds, including price and initial interest rate, negotiate,
execute, and deliver the bond purchase agreement with the underwriters, a trust
indenture with a trustee to be selected, and related documentation setting forth
the terms of the bonds and the sale and delivery of the bonds, all within the limitations of the resolution.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERS1TY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF
HOSPITAL REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS,
AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATI'ERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan (the
"University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer entered into a master indenture, as supplemented (the "Master Indenture") dated as of May 1, 1986 with Comerica Bank - Detroit as Master Trustee (the "Master
Trustee"), pursuant to which revenue obligations for the benefit of the University of Michigan
Hospitals (the "Hospital") have been and will be issued and secured; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued under the Master Indenture its $130,720,000
Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1986A, dated as of May 1, 1986 (the "Prior Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer may issue bonds under the Master Indenture for the purpose of refunding the Prior Bonds; and


27




July Meeting, 1992


WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently control
and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it is necessary and
desirable to authorize the issuance pursuant to the terms of the Master Indenture of a series of
hospital revenue obligations (the "Bonds"), in the aggregate original principal amount of not to
exceed Seventy Five Million Dollars ($75,000,000) to provide funds in an amount sufficient to
pay the costs of refunding a portion of the Prior Bonds and to pay certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the refunding of the Prior Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds will be issued pursuant to a trust indenture (the "Series Indenture") to be entered into by and between the Issuer and a trustee (the "Series Trustee") to be selected by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or Associate Vice President for Finance
of the University (each an "Authorized Officer") as a series of revenue obligations under the Master Indenture; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has retained Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (the "Underwriter") as underwriter to undertake market analysis with respect to the sale of the Bonds and to
submit an offer to purchase the Bonds pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement (the "Bond Purchase Agreement") to be negotiated with the Underwriter and executed and delivered on behalf
of the Issuer by an Authorized Officer, and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLTOWS:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Bonds of the Issuer to be designated as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer (but which designation
shall include the words "HOSPITAL REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS") in the aggregate original principal amount of not to exceed $75,000,000, to be dated as of the date or dates to be determined by an Authorized Officer, for the purpose of providing funds to pay the costs of the
refunding that portion of the Prior Bonds as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer and
costs incidental to the issuance of the Bonds and the refunding of the Prior Bonds. The Bonds
shall be serial Bonds or term Bonds or a combination thereof maturing not later than December
1, 2012. The Bonds shall bear interest at a fixed rate or rates not in excess of 7% per annum, or
at an adjustable rate, or rates as shall be provided in the Series Indenture not in excess of the
lesser of 25% per annum or the maximum rate permitted by law, or may bear no stated interest,
but appreciate in principal amount over time, compounded, at a rate or rates not in excess of 7%
per annum, to be determined by an Authorized Officer, by execution of the series Resolution.
Any adjustable rate may be established at a market or indexed rate for variable rate bonds, or
may be established as the difference between an estabshed base rate and an indexed or market
established variable rate. The fixed rates and method of determining variable rates shall be
established by an Authorized Officer, within the limitation set forth herein, by the execution of
the Series Indenture. The Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity and interest on
the Bonds shall be payable on the interest payment dates, all as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer by the Execution of the Series Indenture. The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form in denominations, shall be payable as to principal and interest in the manner, shall be
subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer by the execution of the Series Indenture. In connection with the
issuance of the Bonds, either of the Authorized Officers may, on behalf of and as the act of the Issuer, enter into an interest rate swap agreement or agreements (the "Swap Agreement") with a
counter-party or counter-parties to be selected by the Authorized Officer. Such Swap Agreement
shall provide for payments between the Issuer and the counter-party related to interest on the
Bonds or indexed or market established rates. The effective interest rates on the Bonds, taking
account the effect of the Swap Agreement, shall be within the limitations set forth herein. The
Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriters pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement at the price
to be specified therein but such price shall not be less than (a) 98% of the principal amount of the
Bonds, (b) plus accrued interest, (c) less any original issue discount on the Bonds.
2. The Bonds, and any obligations of the Issuer under the Swap Agreement, shall be
limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from Hospital Gross Revenues (as
defined in the Master Indenture) and equally and ratably secured with all other Revenue Obligations (as defined in the Master Indenture) by an irrevocable pledge of the Pledged Hospital Gross


28




July Meeting, 1992


Revenues (as defined in the Master Indenture) and funds from time to time on deposit in certain
of the funds created pursuant to the Master Indenture and shall be additionally secured by the
funds from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds created pursuant to the Series Indenture.
Except as provided in the Master Indenture and the Series Indenture no recourse shall be
had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium on the Bonds or any
obligation of the Issuer under the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, or the Swap Agreement, or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any officer of
agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Bonds or any obligation of
the Issuer under the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, or the Swap Agreement become a
lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the State of Michigan or the Issuer or the University, other than the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues and the moneys from
time to time on deposit in certain of the funds established by the Master Indenture and the Series
Indenture.
3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from
Hospital Gross Revenues or secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the Pledged Hospital
Gross Revenues, upon compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Master Indenture.
4. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf
of the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute and deliver the Series Indenture, the Bond Purchase Agreement and the Swap Agreement, in each case subject to the terms
hereof. Any of said documents may, in the discretion of an Authorized Officer, also be executed
by the Treasurer and Investment Officer of the University.
5. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name
and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Bonds by placing his
manual or facsimile signature thereon, and to deliver the Bonds to the Underwriter in exchange
for the purchase price thereof, as shall be provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement.
6. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to prepare or arrange to be prepared the
Preliminary Official Statement with respect to the Bonds and to prepare or arrange to be prepared, and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer the Official Statement with respect to
the Bonds and such supplements or amendments to the Official Statement as may be required
pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement. The Underwriter is hereby authorized to circulate
and use the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official Statement, as the same may be so
supplemented or amended, in accordance with applicable law, in the offering, sale and remarketing of the Bonds.
7. Each of the Authorized Officers, the Secretary, the Treasurer and Investment Officer,
the General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are hereby authorized
to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and documents for an on
behalf of the Issuer or the University required by this resolution, the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, the Swap Agreement or the Bond Purchase Agreement, or necessary, expedient
and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds, and the ongoing operation of the financing program represented by the Bonds, all as contemplated hereby. The use
of any portion of the Debt Service Reserve Fund held for the Prior Bonds for capital purposes of
the Hospital, or as deemed appropriate by an Authorized Officer, in the Refunding of the Prior
Bonds, is hereby authorized and approved.
8. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Regent Brown returned to the table at 11:00 AM.


29




July Meeting, 1992


State Building Authority Lease for University of Michigan-Flint Campus Water Street Parking Condominium Facility
Vice President Womack explained the technical reason that this action is required by the State Building Authority. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded
by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved the following resolution:
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A LEASE AND CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-FLINT WATER STREET PARKING
CONDOMINIUM FACILITY
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan authorizing a lease between the State Building Authority, the State of Michigan and the Regents of the University of
Michigan (the "University"), a Michigan constitutional corporation, for the purpose of acquiring
by the Authority and leasing to the State and the University, Units 2 and 3 of the Water Street
Parking Condominium in the City of Flint, approving the conveyance of property and providing
for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority") has been incorporated under
and in pursuance of the provisions of Act 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act
183"), for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating, mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots
and facilities, and sites therefor, for the use of the State of Michigan (the "State"), including institutions of higher education created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 or 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan have been created and are maintained pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority acquire Units 2 and 3
of the Water Street Parking Condominium in the City of Flint, Michigan (the "Facility"), and
lease the same to the State and the University, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility
and lease the same to the State and the University, and
WHEREAS, the Authority, by resolution adopted on November 9, 1990, did determine,
subject to the conditions set forth in such resolution, to acquire the Facility and to lease the same
to the State and the University, and
WHEREAS, the Facility is presently owned by the University and it is intended that the
Facility be conveyed by the University to the Authority, and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
University and the State is necessary in order for the State and the University to carry out
necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to the people of the State as
mandated or permitted by Constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such
acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the
University, and
WHEREAS, a lease between the Authority, the State and the University providing for the
acquisition of the Facility by the Authority and the Lease of the Facility to the State and the University has been prepared in substantially final form and is attached hereto as Exhibit A (the
"Lease"); and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the Authority, the State Administrative Board of the State, by concurrent resolution of the Legislature of
the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in each house and if
the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created pursuant to Section 5, 6 or
7 of Article VIII of the State Constitution, then in addition, the Leas shall be authorized by the


30




July Meeting, 1992


institution of higher education and signed by its authorized officers and, accordingly, it is necessary that the University authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the Authority intends to finance a part of the cost of the Facility through the
issuance of its revenue bonds as authorized in Act 183 which together with other funds legally
available therefor will be sufficient to finance the cost of the Facility, and it is necessary for authorized officers of the University to approve of the description of the Facility for use in the official statement (the "Official Statement") to be distributed by the Authority in connection with
the sale of its revenue bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
1. The University hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A and the President and the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in substantially
the form attached as Exhibit A for and on behalf of the University at such time as shall be agreeable to the State, the Authority and the University officers and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers of the University for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183; such officers
are hereby authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action
submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officers are not hereby authorized to approve of a change in the Lease with respect to the rental, the description of the Facility
or the material financial obligations of the University contained in the Lease approved herein.
The University hereby determines that the maximum rental in the amount described below is
reasonable and the authorized officers are hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $279,000 in any 12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years
2. The plans for the Facility, as filed with the University, are hereby approved.
3. The conveyance of the Facility, as acquired, to the Authority as provided in the Lease is
hereby approved and the President and the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
University are hereby authorized and directed to execute a warranty deed in substantially the
form attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may
be from time to time approved by counsel for the University.
4. The President and the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized
and directed to approve the description of the Facility and other matters relating to the University as may be required for use in the Official Statement to be distributed by the Authority in connection with the sale of its revenue bonds.
5. University further confirms its obligations to perform the duties and obligations specified in the Lease and acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon the passage of the
title to the Facility to the University or the State without consideration and the University
hereby represents that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if the title to the Facility
would not pass upon the termination of the Lease.
6. The University recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the Facility in an
amount not in excess of $1,899,000.
7. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of
this resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
8. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


31




July Meeting, 1992


State   Building   Authority    Lease   for the    University    of MichiganDearborn Campus Renovation Project
Regent McFee moved, Regent McFee seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, the following resolution, authorizing the president and vice
president and chief financial officer to execute the lease for a portion of the Dearborn campus science and administration facilities and convey title as required by
the lease:
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A LEASE AND CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY
FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-DEARBORN
GENERAL CAMPUS RENOVATION
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan authorizing a lease between the State Building Authority, the State of Michigan and the Regents of the University of
Michigan (the "University"), a Michigan constitutional corporation, for the purpose of acquiring
by the Authority and leasing to the State and the University a portion of the science and administration facilities in Dearborn, Michigan, approving the conveyance of property and providing
for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority") has been incorporated under
and in pursuance of the provisions of Act 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1963, as amended ("Act
183"), for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating, mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots
and facilities, and sites therefor, for the use of the State of Michigan (the "State"), including institutions of higher education created pursuant to Section 5, 6 or 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan have been created and are maintained pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority acquire a portion of
the science and administration facilities in Dearborn, Michigan and the site therefor (the "Facility"), and lease the same to the State and the University, and the Authority is willing to acquire
the Facility and lease the same to the State and the University, and
WHEREAS, the Authority, by resolution adopted on February 18, 1986, did determine,
subject to the conditions set forth in such resolution, to acquire the Facility and to lease the same
to the State and the University, and
WHEREAS, the site of the Facility (the "Site") is presently owned by the University and
the Facility has been constructed by the University and it is intended that the Site be conveyed to
the Authority by the University and the Facility be conveyed by the State and the University to
the Authority as acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to the
University and the State is necessary in order for the State and the University to carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide necessary services to the people of the State as mandated or permitted by Constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such
acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the
University, and
WHEREAS, a lease between the Authority, the State and the University providing for the
acquisition of the Site and the Facility by the Authority and the Lease of the Site and the Facility
to the State and the University has been prepared in substantially final form and is attached
hereto as Exhibit A (the "Lease"); and


32




July Meeting, 1992


WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the Authority, the State Administrative Board of the State, by concurrent resolution of the Legislature of
the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in each house and if
the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created pursuant to Section 5, 6 or
7 of Article VIII of the State Constitution, then in addition, the Lease shall be authorized by the
institution of higher education and signed by its authorized officers and, accordingly, it is necessary that the University authorize and approve the Leae; and
WHEREAS, the Authority intends to finance a part of the cost of the Facility through the
issuance of its revenue bonds as authorized in Act 183 which together with other funds legally
available therefor will be sufficient to finance the cost of the Facility, and it is necessary for authorized officers of the University to approve of the description of the Facility for use in the official statement (the "Official Statement") to be distributed by the Authority in connection with
the sale of its revenue bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
1. The University hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A and the President and the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
University are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in substantially
the form attached as Exhibit A for and on behalf of the University at such time as shall be agreeable to the State, the Authority and the University officers and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers of the University for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183; such officers
are hereby authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action
submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officers are not hereby authorized to approve of a change in the Lease with respect to the rental, the description of the Facility
or the material financial obligations of the University contained in the Lease approved herein.
The University hereby determines that the maximum rental in the amount described below is
reasonable and the authorized officers are hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $1,501,114 in any 12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
2. The plans for the Facility, as filed with the University, are hereby approved.
3. The conveyance of the Site and the Facility, as acquired, to the Authority as provided in
the Lease is hereby approved and the President and the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute a warranty deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form
as may be from time to time approved by counsel for the University.
4. The President and the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are hereby authorized
and directed to approve the description of the Facility and other matters relating to the University as may be required for use in the Official Statement to be distributed by the Authority in connection with the sale of its revenue bonds.
5. The University further confirms its obligations to perform the duties and obligations
specified in the Lease and acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon the passage of
the title to the Facility to the University or the State without consideration and the University
hereby represents that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if the title to the Facility
would not pass upon the termination of the Lease.
6. The University recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of the Facility in an
amount not in excess of $10,220,000.
7. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of
this resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
8. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


33




July Meeting, 1992


Refunding of $271,000,000 State Building Authority 1986 Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series I (University of Michigan Adult General
Hospital Facility)
Vice President Womack noted that this action request refers to the state's
portion of the Hospitals' debt. Following some discussion, Regent McFee moved,
Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, the following
resolution authorizing the approval of the supplemental bond resolution of the
State Building Authority.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE APPROVAL OF SUPPLEMENTAL BOND
RESOLUTION OF THE STATE BUILDING AUTHORITY
A RESOLUTION of the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan (the "University") authorizing the approval of supplemental resolutions to be adopted by the State Building
Authority (the "Authority") for the purpose of issuing its 1992 Revenue Refunding Bonds,
(University of Michigan Adult General Hospital Facility) (the "Refunding Bonds").
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and in pursuance of the provisions of Act 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended, ("Act 183"), for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and facilities and
sites therefor, for the use of the State of Michigan (the "State"), including institutions of higher
education created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of
1963, or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the University has been created and is maintained pursuant to Sections 4 and
5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has acquired an adult general hospital building as a part of the
replacement hospital program of the University at the campus of the University at Ann Arbor,
Michigan (the "Facility"), and leased the same to the State and the University pursuant to a lease
dated as of December 1, 1982 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, the Authority financed a part of the cost of the Facility through the issuance
of its 1982 Revenue Bonds, Series III, (University of Michigan Adult General Hospital Facility),
as refunded by the 1986 Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series I, (University of Michigan Adult General Hospital Facility) (the 1986 Bonds are the "Prior Bonds") as authorized in Act 183 and the
resolution of the Authority adopted on November 15, 1982, as amended, and supplemented on
December 3, 1982, May 5, 1986 and May 15, 1986 (the "Bond Resolution"); and
WHEREAS, the Lease provides for the conveyance of the Facility to the University upon
payment of the Prior Bonds and any bonds issued to refund such Prior Bonds; and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the University to allow for a refunding of the Prior
Bonds in order to allow for the earlier conveyance of title to the Facility to the University as provided by the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the provisions of the Bond Resolution permit the Authority to adopt supplemental resolutions for the purpose of issuing Additional Bonds (as defined in the Bond Resolution) to refund the Prior Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the provisions of the Bond Resolution require that a copy of each supplemental resolution adopted by the Authority be filed with the University and, if the University is not
in default under the Collateral Agreement, requires that such supplemental resolutions be approved by the University before they become effective; and


34




July Meeting, 1992


WHEREAS, the Authority has proposed adopting supplemental resolutions for the purpose of issuing the Refunding Bonds to refund all or a portion of the Prior Bonds, which Refunding Bonds will have a final maturity earlier than the December 1, 2004 stated final maturity of
the Prior Bonds, and has requested that the University authorize the approval of supplemental
resolutions for such purpose,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF
THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
1. The Board of Regents of the University hereby authorizes either the President, Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, Associate Vice President for Finance or Treasurer and Investment Officer, ("Authorized Officers") to approve on behalf of the University supplemental
resolutions to be adopted by the Authority relating to the refunding of the Prior Bonds, provided
such supplemental resolutions shall provide for the issuance of the Refunding Bonds with a final
maturity earlier than the December 1, 2004 final maturity of the Prior Bonds thereby permitting
an earlier transfer of the Facility to the University pursuant to the Lease and to approval of such
other provisions in such Supplemental Resolution as are required by the Authority and which
are not materially adverse to the University.
2. Any of the Authorized Officers is also authorized to approve the description of the University for use in the Official Statement to be distributed by the Authority in connection with the
sale of the Refunding Bonds.
3. The University further reconfirms its obligation to perform the duties and obligations
specified in the Lease and acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon the passage of
the title to the Facility to the University or the State without consideration and the University
hereby represents that it did execute and deliver the Lease even though the title to the Facility
would not necessarily pass to the University upon the termination of the Lease.
4. All resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the provisions of this resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption. The supplemental resolutions and the description of the University after approval by the Authorized Officers as herein
provided shall be filed with the Secretary of the Board of Regents.
Telecommunications License Agreement
Chancellor Jones reported that this is a request to improve the fiber optic
interconnection among three Flint institutions of higher education, including the
University of Michigan-Flint, General Motors Institute/Engineering Management Institute, and Mott Community College. It reflects a number of collaborative and partnership efforts among these institutions. Following some discussion
about certain specific aspects of the agreement, Regent Varner moved, Regent
Brown seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, the Telecommunication License Agreement between the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Mott Community College (see Regents Communication for text of license agreement).
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) renovation of space
within Room 1540 of the School of Public Health Building for a clean room; 2)
Phase II of renovation of space on level four of the Medical Science I Building for
the Department of Biochemistry; 3) Replacement of the PET scanner in, the


35




July Meeting, 1992


Department of Nuclear Medicine at UM Hospitals; 4) renovation of the pot and
pan area ventilation system in UM Hospitals; 5) office renovation in the B1 level
of the Taubman Center at UM Hospitals for the Section of Emergency Medicine;
and 6) stairway and corridor renovations on the H.S. Frieze Building.
Reassignment of University's Ownership           Interest in    Intellectual
Property (John M. Nicklas, Jong Lee, Saul Greenhut); and
Agreements between the University of Michigan and the Consortium
for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN)
These items were removed from consideration until a later date.
Intellectual Properties
There followed a discussion about the substance of Regents communications
having to do with intellectual properties.
Proposed Consulting Agreement with Anjoy Research, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent McFee, all six Regents
present unanimously approved the University's entering into a consulting agreement with Anjoy Research, Inc. Because the president and chair of the board of
Anjoy Research, Inc., are also University of Michigan employees, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Anjoy Research,
Inc.
2.  The terms of the contract include that Anjoy Research, Inc., conduct an MBA
student and faculty satisfaction study;, design of questionnaire; conduct a written survey distribute, code, follow up; apply "Quality attributes, Satisfaction
and Profitability" (QSP Model) unique proprietary model and statistical process
to measure and diagnose customers and employee satisfaction; interpret results;
and produce and deliver a written report to the dean of the School of Business
Administration.
3.   This contract will be completed during a three-month period for a total payment of $25,000.
Proposed Research Agreements between the University of Michigan
and the Environmental Research Institute of Michigan (ER]M)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent McFee, all six Regents
present unanimously approved proposed research agreements between the University of Michigan and ERIM. Because William C. Kelly serves on the ERIM
board of directors and is also a vice president at the University of Michigan, these
agreements fall under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreements will be ERIM and the Regents of the University of
Michigan.
2.   The projects will be conducted in compliance with subcontracts or other contracts from ERIM which may include NASA or other governmental agency policies by reference. All agreements will comply with University policies regarding


36




July Meeting, 1992


research conducted at the University. The proposed scope of work and budget
will be incorporated into the agreement after approval by appropriate chairpersons, deans, or directors.
3.   Kelly does not receive a salary from ERIM and will receive no portion of his
University salary from the performance of any agreement with ERIM. Kelly receives a stipend for services performed as a director of ERIM.
Proposed Research Contract between the University of Michigan and
Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent McFee, all six Regents
present unanimously approved a proposed research contract with TSRL. Because
the owner and director of research of TSRL, Gordon L. Amidon and Glen D.
Leesman, respectively, are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and TSRL, a corporation wholly owned by Professor Gordon L. Amidon.
2.   The contract to be signed is the University's standard research contract which
will authorize research for a period of one year, beginning July 1, 1992. The
University will be paid $47,113 in direct costs and $19,887 in indirect costs. The
indirect costs reflect the University's full indirect cost recovery rates.
3.   Professor Amidon's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of TSRL. Dr.
Leesman's pecuniary interest arises from his employment by TSRL. The interests disclosed herein comprise their total pecuniary interests.
Reassignment of University's Ownership              in  Intellectual Property
(Gordon M. Crippen)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent McFee, all six Regents
present unanimously approved reassignment of the University's ownership
interest in the intellectual property "Vorom" to the employee/inventor, Gordon
M. Crippen. Because Mr. Crippen is a University employee and will be a party to
the agreement, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of Michigan and
Gordon M. Crippen, Ph.D.
2.   Terms of the contract include: standard terms in accordance with those previously disclosed to and approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, with the following exceptions:
Paragraph 2b is deleted and replaced in its entirety by, "The Inventor agrees
that any license for the Invention will require that the licensee pay all royalties
or other value directly to the University. The Inventor may stipulate that in
such payments up to 85% may be applied to a specific research account with the
remainder to be distributed according to the standard formula in cases of reassignment."
In accordance with paragraph 2g, the Inventor has been authorized to continue
development of the Invention using University resources as evidenced by a


37




July Meeting, 1992


memorandum dated March 26, 1992, from William Kelly to Ara Paul, a copy of
which is attached to the Reassignment Agreement as Exhibit A
Paragraph 5c is deleted and replaced in its entirety by, "all University employee
inventors (or authors in the case of copyrightable materials), except those who
have agreed in writing to a royalty waiver and assignment to the University of
their rights in the Invention, have been named and are included as parties to
this agreement."
3.   The pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated by reference in this action
request.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual
Property (William W. Hurd, M.D.)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent McFee, all six Regents
present unanimously approved reassignment of the University's ownership
interest in the intellectual property of William W. Hurd, M.D., "The Use of Meclofenamate Sodium Monohydrate Alone or in Combination with 35% Dextran
70 (Hyskon) for the Prevention of Post-Operative Intra-abdominal Adhesions."
Because Dr. Hurd is both a University employee and a party to the contract,
this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the assignment agreement(s) will be the University of Michigan and
William W. Hurd, M.D.
2.   The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and approved by
the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated by reference in this
action request.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual
Property (William J. O'Brien)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent McFee, all six Regents
present unanimously approved reassignment of the University's ownership
interest in the intellectual properties of William J. O'Brien, "High Expansion
Dental Crown Core Ceramic Composition" and "Surface Finishing Apparatus
and Method."
Because Mr. O'Brien is both a University employee and a party to the contract, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the assignment agreement(s) will be the University of Michigan and
William J. O'Brien.
2.   The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and approved by
the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated by reference in this
action request.


38




July Meeting, 1992


Proposed Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan
and Picotronix, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the University's entering into a research subcontract
with Picotronix, Inc. Because the sole proprietor of Picotronix, Inc., Steven Williamson, is also a University employee, this arrangement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement will be Picotronix, Inc., and the Regents of the University of Michigan.
2.   The proposed agreement is a standard University research contract without intellectual property terms. A license agreement covering intellectual property already disclosed to the University by the owner/employee is being discussed and
will be presented for Regental approval at a later meeting. There are no restrictions on publication or openness of the research. The project involves fabrication and testing of an ultrafast optoelectronic detector/processor for future
application as an all-optical means of detecting breast tumors. No human or
animal subjects will be used in the research.
The subcontract will cover laboratory supplies and equipment use charges
totaling $11,750 over a six month period. Mr. Williamson will supervise the
project for the company. One research engineer and one doctoral student will
be paid directly by Picotronix as consultants.
3.   The total grant to Picotronix, Inc., is $50,000. Mr. Williamson presently owns
100% of the company and is its only employee. The consultants mentioned
above have no pecuniary interest in the company.
Proposed Letter Agreement and Proposed Subgrant from Merit Network, Inc. to the Regents of the University of Michigan
The University of Michigan is a member of Merit Network, Inc. (MERIT)
and serves as its host university. Currently, Douglas E. Van Houweling, vice provost for information technology serves on the MERIT board of directors and Eric
M. Aupperle, associate director of Merit, at the University's network systems,
serves as president of MERIT. MERIT has been awarded a grant from the National Science Foundation involving upgrading the MichNet network, and MERIT proposes issuing a letter authorizing the University to purchase and install
the hardware and circuits as described in MERIT's proposal to NSF. MERIT will
also be awarded a grant from the Federal Aviation Administration in support of
another project.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent McFee, all six Regents
present unanimously approved the University's entering into the proposed letter
agreement and subgrant with MERIT. Because University employees are also directors and officers of MERIT, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Mortez Rahimi, chairperson of the board of directors of MERIT, and vice president for computing and information technology of Wayne State University, will


39




July Meeting, 1992


sign the letter authorizing the University to implement the first project. The second project will be issued by Rahimi as a subgrant to the University.
2.   The terms of the agreements include:
The letter agreement (1) will request the University to perform certain services
as described in MERIT's proposal to NSF. The project will be conducted in
compliance with NSF policies and with University policies regarding other
sponsored activity conducted by the University. MERIT's obligations under its
grant will be carried out by University employees. The University will receive
$375,000 over approximately an eighteen-month period ending November 30,
1993. The proposed scope of work and budget are described in the MERIT's
grant proposal.
The subgrant (2) will be issued subject to conditions imposed by the Federal
Aviation Administration. The project will be conducted in compliance with FAA
policies and with University policies regarding research conducted at the University. The University will receive $150,872 over approximately a twelvemonth period beginning upon execution of the grant agreement. The proposed
scope of work and budget are described in the MERIT's grant proposal.
3.   Neither Van Houweling nor Aupperle receive a salary or other pecuniary benefit from MERIT and neither is receiving any portion of their University salary
from the performance of this subcontract.
Proposed Name Change for School of Natural Resources
Regent Baker moved approval of a change in the name of the School of
Natural Resources to the School of Natural Resources and Environment. Regent
Smith seconded the motion, and following some discussion, it was approved
unanimously, with the understanding that the change will require revisions to
the Regents' Bylaws.
Revision of Regental Policy Regarding Research Using Recombinant
DNA
Vice President Kelly reported that in response to regental action at the June
Regents' Meeting, he had considered the administrative burden imposed by existing Regental policy regarding research using recombinant DNA and was recommending that the two requirements that go beyond those required by existing
laws and regulations be removed from Regental policy. He stated that the vice
president for research would notify the Regents of any major new developments,
such as the initiation of research requiring the highest containment level
Following some discussion, Regent Brown moved changing the Regental
Policy on Recombinant DNA so as to read:
The University of Michigan shall adhere to all applicable federal
and state laws regarding the approval, conduct, and safety monitoring
of recombinant DNA research. The vice president for research shall report to the Regents upon request or when it is deemed appropriate by the
vice president. The vice president will report to the Regents on any initiation of research requiring containment above BL3.


40




July Meeting, 1992


Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
History and Traditions Committee
The Regents received information on the establishment of the History and
Traditions Committee.
401 East Stadium Boulevard, Ann Arbor
Regent Smith moved approval of acquisition of the property at 401 East Stadium Boulevard, Ann Arbor, at a price of $3.3 million, recognizing the University
will be granted a first right of refusal to acquire the single story, brick office
building at a later date and the existing tenant of the office space will be granted
two years of free rent. Regent Varner seconded the motion.
Regent Baker observed that although he has always thought the University
should acquire that property, he was troubled by the price and by the fact that
the office building is not included in the transaction. Vice President Womack expressed agreement with Regent Baker's sentiments, but stated that there were
no other options. Regent Varner expressed the same concerns, but said that the
property is valuable enough to the University to justify paying the premium
price. She wished the price of the building, which is to be purchased in the future,
could have been negotiated at this time.
Vice President Womack responded that the proposed transaction had been
vigorously pursued, and this was the best arrangement that could be obtained.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken, with Regents Brown,
Power, McFee, Smith, and Varner in favor and Regent Baker abstaining.
Proposed Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan
and Stanford University
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, all six Regents
present unanimously approved a subcontract between the University of Michigan and Stanford University, which is issued under a prime contract between the
University of Michigan and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA) involving the Shuttle Electrodynamic Tether System (SETS).
Because the project director of SETS, Peter M. Banks, is an employee of the
University of Michigan and holds a no-salary appointment at Stanford University, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be Stanford University and the Regents of the University of Michigan.
2.  The subcontract will obligate Stanford University to complete a portion of the
SETS experiment. Specifically, Stanford will provide scientific expertise in the
instrument function and data analysis activities. A total subcontract of
$322,125 is planned over the one-year period. The proposed scope of work and
budget are described in the subcontract.


41




July Meeting, 1992


3.  Dr. Banks does not or will not receive a salary or other pecuniary benefit from
Stanford University.
Center for Molecular Medicine
Dr. George Zuidema, vice provost for medical affairs, presented a proposal
for the establishment of a Center for Molecular Medicine at the University of
Michigan Medical Center, as described in the Regents Communication. Following
some discussion, Regent Power moved establishment of the Center for Molecular
Medicine at the University of Michigan Medical Center. Regent Smith seconded
the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Resolution in Honor of Chancellor Blenda Wilson
Regent Varner read the following resolution, which was approved by acclamation:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan wish to commend,
thank, and congratulate Chancellor Blenda J. Wilson as she leaves the
University of Michigan to assume her new position as president of California State University at Northridge.
One of those rare individuals who can electrify a gathering by her
presence, Blenda Wilson personifies the meaning of "class.  Upon her
appointment as chancellor of the University of Michigan-Dearborn in
1988, she quickly rose to the challenge of being the first woman to lead a
public college in Michigan. With her characteristic style and energy, she
began pursuing the pledge she'd made in her inaugural address: to
make the UM-Dearborn the "best in class. 
Her infectious enthusiasm and dynamic leadership style not only
invigorated the faculty, staff, and administration, but also left its mark
on the broader Detroit metropolitan community. In four short years,
Chancellor Wilson has transformed the Dearborn campus, thrusting it
into the regional and national spotlight and thereby enhancing the entire University.
It takes a remarkable leader to systematically develop, pursue, and
achieve her goals with such vision, grace, and sense of purpose. Blenda
Wilson, a jewel among educators, exemplifies such a leader; she herself
is truly "best in class." As she and her husband, Louis Fair, leave
Michigan to accept new challenges in California and beyond, the
Regents express their gratitude and admiration to Blenda J. Wilson for
ajob well done.
President Duderstadt conveyed the University's thanks, congratulations,
and pride in Chancellor Wilson's achievements.


42




July Meeting, 1992


Comments by Chancellor Wilson
Chancellor Wilson thanked the Regents. She commented that the University of Michigan-Dearborn is wholly representative of the legacy of the University
of Michigan, as it assures that students in the greater metropolitan area will have
an opportunity to receive a Michigan education in every respect. She observed
that UM-Dearborn contains unusually talented and dedicated faculty, staff, and
students, and she has been proud to represent it. Chancellor Wilson thanked the
Regents and executive officers for their support and kindness over the years.
Interim Policy on Discrimination and Discriminatory Harassment
In response to a question from Regent Smith, President Duderstadt reported that in light of the recent Supreme Court decision, the University has
suspended the speech component of the Interim Harassment Policy. He called on
Vice President Hartford to describe the steps being taken to revise that policy.
Vice President Hartford reported that she had been working with students
from MSA, along with deans, SACUA, and other student leaders, to develop a
revised version of the policy. Thirty-six thousand copies of Draft #10 are
currently being mailed out to the entire student body with a survey attached asking for input. Public hearings and focus groups will be held in September, with
the idea that a final draft should be ready to put into effect on October 9, 1992.
President Duderstadt stated that until that time, the present interim policy,
without the speech component, will remain in place.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:50 AM.
The next meeting will be held on September 17 and 18, 1992. Regents' transportation, accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month
of June 1992 totalled $2,679.28.
Richard L. Kennedy, Sectary


43




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1992


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 17, 1992
The Regents met at 1:00 PRM. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, and
Varner. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellor Jones and Interim Chancellor Klein. Regent Waters arrived shortly
after the start of the meeting.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order, and welcomed Bernard
Klein, Interim Chancellor for the Dearborn campus, to the Regents' meeting.
Commercials for Big Ten Conference Televised Games
President Duderstadt announced that as part of his efforts to convince universities nationwide to work together to rebuild the public trust, the Big Ten
Conference had agreed to use its allotted time for public service announcements
during televised games to air a series of promotional commercials that promote
the importance of higher education generally, rather than the merits of a particular university. He called on Mr. Walter Harrison, executive director of university
relations, to explain the process by which the Big Ten presidents had agreed to
participate in this effort. This is envisioned as at least a five-year campaign, during which each of the Big Ten universities would have at least one advertisement
devoted to one of its alumni The first commercial produced features the University of Michigan. He noted that Leo Burnett, a Chicago advertising agency, had
done all of the creative and coordinating work on a pro bono basis. The commercial was then played for the Regents.
Campaign for Michigan
President Duderstadt announced that on September 18, the University
would kick off the Campaign for Michigan, the largest fndraising project ever
mounted by a public university. In recognition of this campaign, Regent Brown
offered the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
This week, the University will publicly announce the Campaign for
Michigan, the largest fundraising campaign in the history of the institution, indeed the largest fundraising campaign ever undertaken by a
public university.
The campaign's goal will be one billion dollars-$850 million in
gifts and pledges and $150 million in new bequest intentions. This allfund campaign is a five-year concentrated effort to raise funds for many


45




September Meeting, 1992


of the University's most vital needs, including student financial aid,
faculty and program endowments, operating funds for every University
school and college, and facilities of various kinds on all three of the
University's campuses. The Campaign will appeal to the generosity of
all of Michigan's alumni and its many friends. Each gift-from the
largest to the smallest-will be important. It represents in the most concrete way possible an investment in the future.
Our goal is ambitious, but a successful Campaign for Michigan is
essential to the University. It represents our intention to fulfill the promise of public higher education for which this University has so long
stood making an education that is second to none available to the widest possible number of students from all backgrounds, or as President
James B. Angell put it over a century ago, providing "an uncommon
education for the common man. 
Be it resolved, therefore, that the Board of Regents warmly endorses the Campaign for Michigan; thanks all of the many volunteers
who are working so diligently and creatively in this effort; and urges the
executive officers, members of the administration, faculty, staff, and students of the University, its alumni and its many friends-all the maize
and blue faithful everywhere-to join them in supporting the University
through this most important fundraising effort.
The resolution was approved by acclamation.
University Annual Financial Statements for 1991-92
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Womack, who announced
that this is the first year in the University's history in which revenue had exceeded $2 billion. He pointed out that this revenue represents the enormous difference that the University makes in the lives of the people of the state and the
nation.
He noted that each of the eight opinions expressed by the outside auditor,
Ernst & Young, in the financial statements, contains the crucial statement:
"In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the University of
Michigan at June 30, 1992, and the changes in fund balances and the
current funds revenues, expenditures and transfers for the year then
ended in conformance with generally accepted accounting principles."
Vice President Womack also pointed out that this is the first year that the
opinion regarding Veritas contains no qualifications. He commented that these
reports are a tribute to the daily efforts of all University staff.
Year-End Financial Information
Vice President Womack then introduced Mr. Chandler Matthews, associate
vice president for finance and controller, and Mr. Robert Moenart, director of


46




September Meeting, 1992


financial operations and sponsored programs finance, to present the year-end financial information.
Mr. Moenart displayed charts and graphs illustrating changes in current
funds revenues by source from fiscal year 1982-83 to fiscal year 1991-92. In that
time period, state appropriations had decreased from 32.0 percent of educational
and general current funds to less than 27.0 percent. Since 1972, student fees as a
proportion of student fees and state appropriations have gone from about 35.0
percent to about 52.0 percent in 1992. Revenues from government programs
have steadily increased since 1983. The 10-year compound growth rate for current funds was 5.7 percent. Revenues from auxiliary activities have increased
from about $320 million in 1983 to over $900 million in 1992, with most of that
revenue from hospital and other medical activities.
As for expenditures, salaries, wages, and staff benefits comprised approximately 65.0 percent of expenditures in the Educational and General Funds in
1982-83, and approximately 61.0 percent in 1991-92. Scholarships and fellowships grew from 7.4 percent ($35 million) to 9.5 percent ($102 million) of expenditures during that time, with a compound growth rate of 12.6 percent. The total
compound growth rate for expenditures in educational and general funds for the
10-year period was 5.5 percent, with staff benefits having grown at twice the rate
of salaries and wages. Regent Baker asked for a breakdown in the various factors
contributing to the growth in staff benefits over time.
Expenditures for Auxiliary Activities funds grew from $350 million in 1983
to about $870 million in 1991-92. Total University revenues from all sources
grew from $797 million in 1982-83 to $2.04 billion in 1991-92, while expenditures
and transfers grew from $825 million to $1.95 billion in that time period.
In response to a question from Regent Power, Mr. Moenart said that the
two fastest-growing components in the supplies categories are primarily utilities
and telecommunications.
Regent Power observed that it would be helpful for indices to be developed
that would measure the comparative cost per unit of activity; this would serve as
a useful managerial tool for evaluating the University's performance in a variety
of areas. Vice President Womack observed that it would be difficult to define the
"output" variable; President Duderstadt pointed out that the annual U.S. News
and World Report ranking of colleges and universities provides one measure of
performance. He also noted that the Association of American Universities is currently working to devise a quantitative analysis mechanism, but it is difficult to
define measurement criteria Regent McFee suggested that the output measurements should reflect what the University is trying to achieve.
Following further discussion, Regent Power moved adoption of the annual
financial statements for 1991-92. Regent Varner seconded the motion. Regents
Power and Nielsen complimented the staff on the excellence of the University's
financial condition. There being no further discussion, the vote was taken and
the motion was approved unanimously.


47




September Meeting, 1992


1992-93 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
Vice President Womack presented an overview of current funds budgets
(General Fund, Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund) for the 1992-93 fiscal year, compared with those for the 1991-92
fiscal year. Estimated revenues for 1992-93 are $2.092 billion (compared to
$1.889 billion in 1991-92); estimated expenditures will total $1.989 billion ($1.827
billion in 1991-92). State appropriations will rise from $307 million in 1991-92 to
$309 in 1992-93; tuition and fees will rise from $320 million to $353 million.
Current funds revenues have risen from about $850 million in 1984 to just
over $2 billion in 1992-93. The 1992-93 budgets consist of the General Fund (34
percent), Axiliary Activities Fund (40 percent for medical areas and 5 percent
for all other categories), Expendable Restricted Fund (18 percent), and the Designated Fund (3 percent).
Provost Whitaker took the floor to present the 1992-93 General Fund revenue budget, which totals $703 million for all three campuses. It is comprised of
state appropriations (42 percent), tuition and fees (50 percent), indirect cost reimbursement (6 percent), and other (2 percent). By function, General Fund expenditures consist of instruction (43 percent); academic support (18 percent);
"other" (public service, student services, institutional support, mandatory transfers) (15 percent); plant operations (13 percent); scholarships (8 percent); and research (3 percent). General Fund expenditures by object include salaries and
benefits (65 percent), nonsalaries (27 percent), and financial aid (8 percent).
Provost Whitaker reviewed the detailed budgets in the 1992-93 budget book
for the Colleges of LSA and Engineering, the Medical School, the School of Information and Library Studies, and the University Library. He also reviewed
charts depicting budget expenditures by school, by vice presidential areas, and
within the vice presidential areas of academic affairs and vice president and chief
financial officer.
Chancellor Klein and Chancellor Jones reviewed budgeted expenditures for
the Dearborn and Flint campuses, respectively. Chancellor Klein pointed out
that the biggest change in the Dearborn budget is in the area of institutional advancement. Chancellor Jones observed that most of the growth in the Flint campus' budget was from tuition and fees, which is a result of decreasing state
appropriations.
Vice President Womack took the floor to review revenue budgets for the
Designated, Auxiliary Activities, and Expendable Restricted Funds. Designated
Fund revenues, which total $62.5 million, are made up of departmental activities
(67 percent), investment income (29 percent), and private gifts (4 percent). The
budget for Auxiliary Activities is about $950.0 million, of which about 89 percent
is derived from medical activities. Other sources of Auxiliary Activities revenues
are housing (6 percent), "other" (3 percent), and athletics (2 percent). The Expendable Restricted Fund (voluntary private support and federally sponsored research programs) is $376.4 million. This budget is comprised of government


48




September Meeting, 1992


sponsored programs (63 percent), private gifts (29 percent), investments (6 percent), state appropriations (1 percent, and departmental activities (1 percent).
On a motion by Regent Varer, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
nnanimously approved the 1992-93 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets.
Regent Smith observed that she had read a report that the University had
hired 327 full-time employees on the Ann Arbor campus last year, and that given
the tight budget situation, this report greatly disturbed her. President Duderstadt noted that it is probable that if these figures are correct, they reflect new
hires associated with the hospitals and with increased research volume, neither
of which would be paid from the General Fund. Following further discussion, it
was decided to investigate the data described by Regent Smith and provide an explanation.
The vote was then taken on the motion to adopt the 1992-93 budgets; it was
approved unanimously.
Michigan Mandate
President Duderstadt handed out draft copies of the fourth-year report on
the Michigan Mandate. He noted that the Mandate had been very successful, and
that graduation rates for minority students were about twice as high as those at
other public institutions. The Mandate will be discussed in more detail at another meeting.
Minutes
Regent McFee moved approval of the minutes of the meeting of July 16 and
17. Regent Baker seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Packard Hanger, Willow Run Airport
Vice President Womack referred to a communication that had been distributed at the meeting, advising the Regents of discussions with Wayne County regarding the potential for disposing of the Packard Hangar at Willow Run
Airport. Regent Baker asked if his recall was correct, that at the time the University sold the airport to Wayne County, assurance was given that the Packard
Hangar would have access to the airport.
Vice President Womack responded that he did not believe this to be a correct assertion, as the issue of access is one of the areas of contention between the
parties and has been thoroughly researched during the course of the discussions
about the Packard Hanger. He reported that Wayne County and the University
have not been able to come to agreement on the appraised value of the property.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. Vice President Kelly
submitted reports on Projects Established-Research and Other Activities and


49




September Meeting, 1992


Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored Projects for the
months of July and August, 1991. On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by
Regent Varner, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Cosovich submitted Reports on Voluntary Support for the
months of June, July, and August, 1992, and a summary report for Fiscal Year
1991-92. He noted that bequests and gifts from individuals were up from those of
the previous year. Regent Baker complimented Vice President Cosovich on his
achievements in securing voluntary support. On a motion by Regent Nielsen,
seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted unanimously to accept the following gifts, with thanks, and in accord with their terms and conditions:
ARCO Chemical Company, Newton Square, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts..................................................5,070
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching  gifts..........................................................................15,000
AT&T Information Systems, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Human Resources Partnership, School of Business Administration............................... 1,000
Thomas B. Adams, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School....................................................................10,000
Aeroquip Foundation, Jackson
for automotive transportation research,Transportation Research Institute...............................15,000
Aetna Life and Casualty Company, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Human Resources Partnership, School of Business Administration........................15,000
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for computational mechanics support, College of Engineering, and employee
matching gift.._................................. 10,418
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts                            _............-22,270
Allied-Signal, Inc., Southfield
for automotive transportation research, Transportation Research Institute 7...__7,500
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School......................45,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and   the  A rts....................................................275, 20
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Biophysics
Research Division................................................. 144,457
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the Medical School...................................69,412
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.................................................. 6,440
American Gastroenterologica Association, Thorofare, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School...........................................9,200
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine, Nursing, and Public Health _...._.. 289,332
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School._............435,682
American Kennel Club, New York, New York
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs, Medical School......................................37,500
American Laryngological Association, Charlottesville, Virginia
for research in the Medical School _...15,000
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................................79,000
American Medical Association Education and Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the Medical School __..........                                21,342
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School  _....................... --- 26.500


50




September Meeting, 1992


American Xyrofin, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry........................8,250
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for program support in the Institute of Public Policy Studies and employee
matching gifts __.._............................................... 153,261
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration and College of
Engineering and for employee matching gifts.......................................26,250
Amoco Oil Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Corporation Fund, College of Engineering...................................................... 3,000
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering.___......................................................  10,000
Ann Arbor Area Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the University
of Michigan Hospitals...................................... 17,209
Anonymous Donor
for workstudy programs, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................10,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Institute for Social Research _..........................................................25,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics................................................................20,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Canham  Natatorium  in the Department of Athletics.................................................................... 10,000
Aplastic Anemia Foundation of America, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.................................................................................6,250
Armenian General Benevolent Union, Saddle Brook, New Jersey
for the Manoogian Chair, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................................7,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School............................................................   11,750
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School.............................................................26,875
BASF Corporation Chemicals Division, Parsippany, New Jersey
for support in the College of Engineering and the Center for Human Growth and
Development.............................................................. 6,058
BASF Corporation, Southfield
for the Affiliates Program in Electrorheology..............................................20,000
Abby K. Babcock and Frederick Babcock Trusts
for the Babcock Funds, Medical School...............139,448
Thomas D. Barr, New York, New York
for the John H. Pickering Scholarship, Law School................5,000
Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Santa Ana, California
for fellowships in the Medical School..   63,260
William D. Bechill, Kensington, Maryland
cash gift for the William D. Bechill Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Social Work Building Fund...............................................10,000
Don H. Bellinger Trust
for the Don H. Bellinger Fund, School of Dentistry..................................................241,303
Bell-Northern Research, Ltd., Ottawa, Ontario
for research in the College of Engineering._........................................................25,000
Kenneth G. Benton, Sun City West, Arizona
630 shares of Household International common stock for the Kenneth G. Benton
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering _..30,713
Bird Products Corporation, Palm Springs, California
for research in the Medical School........5,700
Andrew G. Bliner Trust
for arthritis research in the Medical School........._               100,000
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit  _....__.....,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for the Boeing Scholarships in the College of Engineering.............................8,000
Boothman, Hebert, Eller & Yockey, P.C., Detroit
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit........................................,000
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for human factors and other research, Transportation Research Institute...........19,995
Lynde & Harry Bradley Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Center for Public Policy Research on Organ Transplantation......._o_..__...137,400


51




September Meeting, 1992


William N. Brown Trust
for the School of Business Administration _..........................................  0,000
H. N. Bull Info Systems, Billerica, Massachusetts
for the Human Resources Partnership, School of Business Administration........................... 15,000
Helen B. Burnham Estate
for the Robert J. and Donna B. Brown Scholarship, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts _......45,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Pharmacy __..................... 12,500
Kenneth H. Campbell Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the Medical School.__......................................10,000
Carello Lighting, Staffordshire, England
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute....................................... 15,000
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.__..............-............................................... 15,300
Dorwin P. Cartwright, Santa Barbara, California
for the Katz-Newcomb Lecture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................5,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work.-..................................................... 895,500
Centocor, Inc., Malvern, Pennsylvania
for pharmacology research in the Medical School.........................................................   64,630
B. Francis Chamberlain, Bloomfield Hills
400 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock for scholarships in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................................................   17,788
Shirley S. Chang Trust, Flint
for research and education in the Medical School...............................5,000
Chernow Charity Trust, New Rochelle, New York
for the Isadore Lampe Chair in the Medical School..................................................................... 10,000
Chevron Research Company, Richmond, California
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute......10,000
Chiang Industrial Charity Foundation, Ltd., Hong Kong
for research in the College of Engineering.___................................................. 100,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School __........................................30,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School __...............7,916
Chiang Ching-Kuo Foundation for International Scholarly Exchange, Taipei, Taiwan
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Institute
for Social Research _.................................................. 42,659
Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
for the Joseph Savarino Memorial Fund in the School of Music and for support of
the School of Business Administration _..     10,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for support in the College of Engineering, the Transportation Research Institute,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for employee matching gifts..........27,974
Citibank (Delaware), New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration.................15,000
Citicorp-Citibank, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts....................11.....11,595
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank Charitable Trust, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library and Learning Resources Center...................20,000
Ada Belle Clark Fund, Los Angeles, California
for scholarships and fellowships, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.....11,000
Kenneth A. Clark, Orlando, Florida
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School...-5,000
Commonwealth Aluminum Corporation, Lewisport, Kentucky
for research in the College of Engineering _0...................     _6,00
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration and at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn -                                                  -..... 72,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for research in the School of Public Health         _.......__10,259
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
400 shares each of Ensearch and MCN Corporations and 410 shares of Tredegar
Industries common stocks for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship, Alumni Association _.23,398
Connelly Associates, Warren
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..-               5,000


52




September Meeting, 1992


Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in
the College of Engineering. __................................................16,500
Corning Foundation, Coring, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration.................. 15,000
Council on Library Resources, Washington, D.C.
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies.._..........6,000
Cray Research, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration -..........10,000
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School......................32,400
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School......................................219,762
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute..............7,500
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., Rye, New York
for the Marvin H. Davidson Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................20,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Center for Engineering Education and
Practice and for employee matching gifts ............................20,741
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in the College of Engineering.................................21,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration............15,000
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....................................-..-...7,000
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for human factors research and other support, Transportation Research Institute.... 18,000
Dow Chemical U.S.A., Midland
for the Summerscience Program in the Center for the Education of Women and
for employee matching gifts........................... 49,361
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......._    28,000
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the College of Pharmacy..                     10,000
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research in the Institute for Social Research........      14,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration
and for the Eastman Kodak Undergraduate Scholarship Fund........47,451
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for employee matching gifts.....................11,350
Eaton Corporation, Southfield
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute -......-7,500
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.........   31,930
Exxon Corporation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration _.15,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.........   0,40,740
Robert Fippinger, Wyckoff, New Jersey
for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law School...     5,000
Chuck Fisher, Haslett
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...25,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Law and Social Work, the Institute of Public
Policy Studies, and the Institute for Social Research _...1..1,077,825
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and the
Transportation Research Institute _...271,006
Ford Motor Company Electronic Division, Dearborn
for the Affiliates Program in Electrorheology              -...-...20,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Center for Engineering Education and
Practice and for employee matching gifts -.. 209,436
Ford Motor Company Plastic Products Engineering, Redford
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute......30,000


53




September Meeting, 1992


Foundation for Chiropractic Education and Research, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering...__.............................. 22,493
GE Financial Services Operations, Schenectady, New York
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute...............5,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts              ~..................................6,330
GTE Products Corporation, Camillus, New York
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute....................,00
Garden Club of Michigan, Grosse Pointe
for Botanical Gardens support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........7..,000
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for employee matching gifts _~..............................5,185
General Motors Corporation, Staff Accounting Services, Warren
for the Digital Faculty Program in the College of Engineering...................................................... 20,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems funds, Transportation Research Institute.............70,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and the
Transportation Research Institute, and for employee matching gifts...............................36,375
Richard E. Genthe Trust, Grosse Ile
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...................................................,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Arthur Schnabel Collegiate Professorship in the School of Music............................. 81,908
J. Paul Getty Trust, Los Angeles, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................157,900
Alvin Glick, Jackson
250 shares of Raytheon Corporation common stock for the Sports Service
Building, golf course restoration, and other support in the Department of Athletics........... 11,188
Ellen Weis Goldstein, Washington, D.C.
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................16,000
Philip L. Graham Fund, Washington, D.C.
for the Wallace House Maintenance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies __._................................................... 26,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work and the Institute for Social Research...........103,604
Greek Week Inter-Fraternity Council, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Events Fund and for the Services for
Students with Disabilities Gift Fund.7,600
Kalvin M. Grove, Passagrille, Florida
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.............      10,000
Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation, New York, New York
for anthropology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........40,000
Halliburton Services, Duncan, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flowand Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering................................ 16,500
William S. Hawgood II, Paradise Valley, Arizona
for the Class of 1966 Reunion in the Law School __......................................................6,000
Healthquest, Ltd., Atlanta, Georgia
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund..........................................10,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Social Work.___......................................................12,138
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the Schools of Natural Resources and Environment and Public
Health and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _.-......30    6,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Farmington Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.....,000
Fred Holtz, Ann Arbor
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School...5 -6,000
Emil A. Holz Trust
for the Emil and Jeannette Holz Scholarship in the School of Music......44,000
Honeywell, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program and the Human Resources Partnership, School of
Business Administration, and C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit...........30,000
Hoover Foundation, Glencoe, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering -........,000


54




September Meeting, 1992


Celeste C. Hourani Estate
for the George F. and Celeste C. Hourani Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..-........ ---....-..-....................... 15,979
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Hughes Fund in the College of Engineering................................................... 10,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Undergraduate Biological Sciences Education Initiative in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for fellowshis and scholarships in the
Medical School and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......................1,063,200
Hyundai America Technical Center, Inc., Ann Arbor
for Korean Studies Program Development in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and for intelligent vehicle highway systems research in the
Transportation Research Institute.......................5,................ 000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for integrated optics research in the College of Engineering and for intelligent
vehicle highway systems research in the Transportation Research Institute..............................70,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..........................................22,500
Intel Corporation Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering...       55,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Poughkeepsie, New York
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Fund in the College of Engineering........6,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry......-...........10,000
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the College of Engineering and for automotive transportation
research in the Transportation Research Institute...........................................20,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................ 19,360
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and the Institute for
Social Research..................................................155,561
Jujo Paper Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for thermal research activities in the College of Engineering  -.._._-.........20,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School              -...____  -...-..-,-.24,808
K.M.D. Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.........5,000
KMS Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society _....5,000
KPMG Peat Marwick, Cleveland, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit _.__.             7,50 0
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for student aid and research in the School of Public Health..... 40,910
Kaketsuken-The Chemo-Sero-Therapeutic Research Institute, Kumamoto, Japan
for epidemiology research in the School of Public Health...10,000
John Harvey Kellogg Estate
for the John Harvey Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School  -......15,000
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration
and for employee matching gifts......_-16,210
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research and other support in the Schools of Education, Medicine, Public
Health, and Social Work, the Institute for Social Research, the University of
Michigan-Flint, and for employee matching gifts _ _-...8585,649
Kelsey-Hayes Company, Romulus
for automotive research in the Transportation Research Institute               7,500
Kyoto Manufacturing Company, Kyoto, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute...15,000
Sylvia M. Kosciolek, Grand Blanc
for support of the Medical School.....5...-.   5,000
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for history of art support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  -....15,000
Laboratory for Education and Research in Neuroscience, Southfield
for research in the Medical School _.10,231


55




September Meeting, 1992


Jeffrey B. Lane, New York, New York
for the Nancy and Jeffrey Lane Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.................. 16,000
N. M. Leff Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for physics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................,000
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the Medical School _...............,000
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the School of Social Work.._...................... 1,666
Charles A Lindbergh Fund, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Reproductive Sciences Program __..................................... 10,199
George T. Lowy, New York, New York
for the John H. Pickering Scholarship in the Law School..........................................,000
Georges Lurcy Charitable and Educational Trust, New York, New York
for fellowships and scholarships, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.............12,000
MCI Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration...................1,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Public Health  _..........................................200,000
Manns, Inc., Long Beach, California
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit...................................... 10,000
Marathon Oil Company, Denver Research Center, Littleton, Colorado
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering..............................16,00
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 46,260
Margoes Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the John A. Margoes Scholarship in the Medical School._.........    20,736
Marko Materials, Inc., North Billerica, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering _................6,000
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration............. 1,000
Martin Marietta Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for employee matching gifts -___.....7,690
Frank Matthews, Decatur, Georgia
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School._ __.......6,000
Mazda (North America), Inc., Flat Rock
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute ____   165,000
Charlotte McGeoch, Ann Arbor
1,000 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock for the Charlotte McGeoch
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of Hill Auditorium.._.._ 62,938
Medicus Intercon, New York, New York
for neuropathy research and patient care in the Medical School._626,000
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey
for the Merck Minority Graduate Student Fellowship in the Medical School and
for employee matching gifts _..3...31,620
Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith, Inc., New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration A....16,000
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for employee matching gifts..........   9,682
Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, Detroit
for employee matching gifts..6,760
Michigan Health Care Education and Research Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School  -_....11,646
Herman Miller, Inc., Zeeland
for cumulative trauma disorders research in the College of Engineering...20,000
Dwight C. Milton, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School.........................................................................5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute._.16,000
Mitsubishi Gas & Chemical Inc., Ann Arbor
for polymer alloys research in the College of Engineering............... 10,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration
and for employee matching gifts _.17,050
Morris Animal Foundation, Englewood, Colorado
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs, in the Medical School _037,600


56




September Meeting, 1992


John D. Moss, Peekskill, New York
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...................................10,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute and for
Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Research..................................25,000
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration
and for HPS Architecture research in the College of Engineering........................40,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tuscon, Arizona
for research in the Medical School.................20,000
N.C.R. Corporation, Dayton, Ohio
for research in the College of Engineering..................25,000
Theodore M. Nagle, Jr., Warson Woods, Missouri
for the R. Timothy Leedy Scholarship in the School of Business Administration....................10,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School     _...............9........ 95,364
National Semiconductor Corporation, West Jordan, Utah
for solid-state electronics research in the College of Engineering _................................ 15,000
National Starch and Chemical Foundation, Bridgewater, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Research Center...................................................,000
National Vascular Malformations Foundation, Inc., Dearborn Heights
for research in the Medical School............................................................10,000
Nestle USA, Inc., Solon, Ohio
for the Leadership, Vision, and Change Project, School of Business Administration............. 9,000
Nippon Life Insurance Company, New York, New York
for the Nippon Life Professorship in the Law School..............................200,000
Nippondenso Manufacturing USA, Inc., Battle Creek
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute............-....7,500
Nissan Research and Development, Inc., Plymouth
for research in the College of Engineering..............................28,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration............15,000
Masaaki Okamoto, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Engineering.................................................. 12,000
Orthopaedic Foundation for Animals, St. Louis, Missouri
for research to combat genetic diseases in dogs, in the Medical School _._..........__...37,500
Theodore C. Papes, Jr., Chappaqua, New York
for humanities support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..5 5,000
Professional Claims & Cash Managers, Inc., Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit................................5,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for the Elsa U. Pardee Funds in the Medical School    __...........54,687
Henry B. Pearsall, Oak Park, Illinois
500 shares of Newell Company common stock for the Law School...........19,781
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the College of Engineering...........................25,000
Mary Jo Brooks Peters, Ann Arbor
285 shares of Anglo American Corporation common stock for the C. Wilbur
Peters Fund in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 10,082
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the Pfizer-Carver & Welage Fund in the College of Pharmacy...............................12,500
Philips International, BV, The Netherlands
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute.........7,500
George L. Phillips, Brighton
cash gift for the George L. and Margaret H. Phillips Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan  _-_.........25,000
Phillips Petroleum Company, Bartlesville, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering -...................16,500
Jeffry M. and Barbara Picower Foundation, New York, New York
for minority scholarships and for financial aid to middle income students.....10,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Minority Workstudy Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts ___20,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for capital gifts pending designation       ...10,000
Price Waterhouse Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts     -..9,880


57




September Meeting, 1992


Ramapo Trust, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health........................................44,388
Rand Corporation, Santa Monica, California
for population studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................12,500
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................30,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the School of
Public Health.................................14,531
Robert V. Roosa, Harrison, New York
for the Robert V. Roosa Graduate Student Support Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................19,182
Sterling L. Ross, Jr., Mill Valley, California
400 shares of Archer Daniels Midland Company common stock for the Law School............. 10,250
Joseph B. Rounds, Buffalo, New York
for the Joseph B. Rounds Fund for Excellence in Librarianship, School of
Information and Library Studies.....................................................10,000
Royal Bank of Canada, Montreal, Canada
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration...............15,000
Sanyo Securities Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center, School of Business Administration......5......50,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research...............................................73,330
Sara Lee Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Alfred L. Edwards Collegiate Professorship, School of Business Administration.......5,000
Edward I. Schalon, St. Joseph
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.....................................................................6,000
Adrian W. Schmidhauser, Waco, Texas
Schmidhauser Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
University of Michigan _..........................5,130
Frances C. Scott, Jackson, Wyoming
100 shares of CSX Corporation common stock for the Frances C. Scott Donor
Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School.................. 6,425
Scripps Howard Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for communications research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............120,175
G. D. Searle & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School..._......5,000
Siemens Automotive, Auburn Hills
for intelligent vehicle highway systems research, Transportation Research Institute......50,000
Siemens Gammasonics, Inc., Hoffman Estates, Illinois
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School....... -...16,500
Siemens Medical Systems, Inc., Iselin, New Jersey
for the Siemens Gift Fund in the Medical School...................................12,003
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... ......45,000
Smiths Industries Aerospace & Defense Systems, Inc., Grand Rapids
for research and fellowships in the College of Engineering.....................25,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education and the Institute of Gerontology.................... 74,370
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute..........15,000
Stryker Corporation, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopaedic Lecture in the Medical School...........6, 000
Sumitomo Electric U.S.A., Inc., New York, New York
for intelligent vehicle highway systems research, Transportation Research Institute -...50,000
George and Florence Symes Foundation, Owosso
for the Symes Scholarship in Chemical and Electrical Engineering in the College
of Engineering -_7..73,176
TMP Associates, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit  -.56,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide, Cleveland, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute  5....5,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration...       5,000
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration  _..15,000


58




September Meeting, 1992


Tanner Lecture Trust, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Lecture in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts -.. _............................................... 17,500
Raymond Tanter, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.......................................6.,400
Robert and Nancy Teeters Trust, Stamford, Connecticut
for unrestricted support of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.........- 6,000
Tecumseh Products Company, Tecumseh
for research in the College of Engineering......  6,400
Texaco Services, Inc., Bellaire, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering...................................16,500
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute...............5,000
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for the TMQDA Fellowship in the School of Business Administration and for
employee matching gifts....................................6,200
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Historical Center for the Health Sciences in the Medical School and for
the Center for the Education of Women..................... 176,000
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute.................15,000
USX Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......................................... 5.6,000
USX Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for Marathon Oil Company employee matching gifts...........................................6,464
Unilever United States, Inc., New York, New York
for the Leadership, Vision and, Change Project, School of Business Administration.............9,000
Union Carbide Corporation Chemicals & Plastics Group, South Charleston, WV.
for the office for automotive transportation research in the Transportation
Research Institute............................................................ 65,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the Computer Science Engineering Distinguished Lecture Series in the College
of Engineering........................................................,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................19,043
United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc., Rockville, Maryland
for the USP Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy __.34,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts.........        6,910
University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship Fund, Birmingham
for the Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship Endowment....... 70,000
Upjohn Company Foundation, Portage
for the School of Business Administration.......7,500
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Sports Service Building and other support in the Department of Athletics._....22,950
John M. Walker, Jr., New York, New York
for Class of 1966 Reunion in the Law School............................................................,000
Mike and Mary Wallace, New York, New York
for Wallace House Purchase/Renovation-Michigan Journalism Fellows Program.......500,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts _.......14,784
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, the
College of Pharmacy, and the Department of Athletics        5....56,500
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New York
for the Building Fund in the College of Pharmacy    -...6        2062,500
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall Weinberg Judaic Studies Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts _.5,,000
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Westinghouse Distinguished Lectureship in the College of Engineering........ 30,000
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for intelligent vehicle highway systems in the Transportation Research Institute _....20,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration. 15,000


59




September Meeting, 1992


Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts.......................29,385
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Natural Resources
and Environment.       ~.__............................................ 123,859
Whiting Foundation, Flint
for the Library Development Fund, University of Michigan-Flint..........75,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the School of Business Administration                   -..........9,500
Josef H. Wiehr, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Atlantic Richfield Company common stock for unrestricted support
of the Department of Athletics  _................................ 10,938
Theodore E. Williams, Los Angeles, California
for the Theodore and Rita Williams Scholarship and the Class of 1942 Fund in
the College of Engineering  __......................................................0,000
Jamison Williams Foundation, Birmingham
for research in the Medical School _..............................................,000
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Great Neck, New York
for the Bartlett A. Giamatti Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......32,500
World Health Organization, Zurich, Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy and the School of Public Health...5........ 59,980
Xerox Corporation, Rochester, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.......................................,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K Yee Scholarship in the Law School.....................................50,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.......................................... 156,594
American Council on Education, Washington, D.C.
for research in the School of Education..............6,120
American Federation for Aging Research, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Gerontology.........................    12,500
American Society of Hematology, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School............7, 0 0
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts._. 10,920
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School _.01.8,083
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the Law School..._ _............5,000
Jack W. Becker Estate
for the Jack W. Becker Scholarship in the Alumni Association...........5,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Fund in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning and for the University Musical Society __......8,  000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for employee matching gifts.....,441
Book Inventory Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Living Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts 1.....10,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration......5,000
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.......100,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Awards in the School of Business Administration
and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                      -.........15,245
C. R. Bard, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah
for research in the Medical School.....30,000
Arthur H. Carter Scholarship Fund, Stamford, Connecticut
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration....5,000
Chevron Oil Field Research Company, LaHabra, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering.........16,500
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School -...15,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for student aid in the School of Education, engineering education at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn, and for employee matching gifts -....152,764


60




September Meeting, 1992


Oscar L. Clarke, Jr. Trust
for unrestricted support of the Law School          _.9....3.................................9931
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School............8,098
Cystinosis Foundation, Piedmont, California
for research in the Medical School   _        .....-                -......,535
Detroit Free Press, Inc., Detroit
for Minority Communications Workshop, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....5,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts
for fellowships in the College of Engineering _.........30,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Chemical Sciences facilities, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and the Associates Program and student aid, School of Business Administration............ 259,000
Dow Chemical U.S.A., Midland
for research in the School of Public Health  _............................. 42,500
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship, School of Music......................20,000
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for polymer research in the College of Engineering  _.................................30,000
EG&G Fluid Components Technology Group, Cranston, Rhode Island
for research in the College of Engineering............................................8,000
Gregory G. Floridis Trust
for the Medical School  _.............................................................57,798
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering and the University of Michigan-Dearborn..........45,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the University Musical Society..................................20,000
William L. Fox, Alpena
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.........................................................5,000
J. Alan Galbraith, Washington, D.C.
for the Class of 1966 Reunion in the Law Scho ol....._..............25,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts ____..........35,085
General Reservices Corporation Financial Centre, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration -.5,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for research in the Medical School.._-....5,000
Eugene M. Grant & Company Real Estate Management, New York, New York
for Judaic Studies Development Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......40,000
H.N.U. Systems, Inc., Newton Highlands, Massachusetts
for laser spectrometry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......10,000
Margo Halsted, Ann Arbor
for the Carillon Practice Keyboards Fund in the School of Music....6,050
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Scholarship in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......................,000
Hatch Stamping Company, Chelsea
for support in the College of Engineering     __.._.-....12,500
Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario
for research in the Medical School.__.................25,088
Barnett and Shirley Helzberg Fund, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Barnett C. Helzberg Doctoral Fellowship and other support in of the
School of Business Administration.........30,000
Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for the Bennett and Alice Cohen Fund in the Medical School  _......_          5,000
Jon R. Holt, Plymouth, Minnesota
for support in the College of Engineering......5,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration       0-   5,000
International Union United Auto, Aerospace, and Agriculture Implement Workers of
America, UAW Local 599, Flint
for the Margaret Anne Burd-UAW Memorial Scholarship at the University of
Michigan-Flint                              __.__10,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for employee matching gifts -~..7,910
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research on health services management and policy, School of Public Health......43,778


61




September Meeting, 1992


KPMG Peat Marwich Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for the William A. Paton Accounting Center, School of Business Administration.................. 12,965
Mark F. Katz, Pacific Palisades, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School  _...................5,000
W. M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for molecular genetics research laboratories in the Medical School.-.....500,000
George W. Keros, Detroit
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts...6,238
Kidney Foundation of Canada, Montreal, Qu6bec
for research in the Medical School _....................8,882
Esther A. and Joseph Klingenstein Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Education............25,000
Leeman Labs, Inc., Lowell, Massachusetts
for laser spectrometry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................6,676
Dennis P. Legolvan, Toledo, Ohio
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School  _.............................5,000
Leukemia Research Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for research in the Medical School._..........................................8,731
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...........             8,750
Lucius N. Littauer Foundation, New York, New York
for the Littauer Judaica Book Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building and scholarships in the Department of Athletics..................13,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Schools of Dentistry, Medicine, and Public Health........... 21,250
McLaren Regional Medical Center, Flint
for the Max Ronald Burnell Resident Fellowship Trust in the Medical School..............22,00
G. Edgar Meads, London, Ontario
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.............5,000
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for employee matching gifts._..1.. 10,992
Michigan Farm & Garden Foundation, Rochester Hills
for the Women's National Farm & Garden Association Scholarship in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for the Nichols Arboretum Flowering
Tree Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.8,100
Dorothy E. Millard Estate
for the Frank G. Millard Professorship in the Law School,618,637
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for solar car project research in the College of Engineering............   10,000
Mobil Research & Development Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media in the
College of Engineering __~16,500
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..___......100,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School __..............44,495
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School _......10,063
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School ___............................8,939
National Mutiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School __.........33,325
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School _._......10,500
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Scholars Program in the School of Natural Resources and Environment _.259,200
Philips Display Components Company, Ann Arbor
for operations management support in the School of Business Administration  -..__ 20,400
Lasetta K. Pickard Estate
for Memorial Scholarship funds, School of Education and Alumni Association _.6.35,235
Herbert & Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School _~....5,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Chemical Engineering Fellowship and other chemical
engineering student aid in the College of Engineering..8,000


62




September Meeting, 1992


Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati Ohio
for employee matching gifts          __                  ....................................................27,521
Bernard and Audre Rapoport Foundation, Waco, Texas
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................,000
Reader's Digest Foundation, Pleasantville, New York
for the Reader's Digest Excellence in Journalism Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts _....,..        15,000
M. Joseph Roberson, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Wal-Mart Corporation common stock for the M. Joseph Roberson
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Barbara Perry Roberson
Graduate Fellowship in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............10,838
Rockwell International, El Segundo, California
for employee matching gifts             A.._............................................,47
Richard H. Rogel, Southfield
for the University Musical Society......................................... 10,000
Richard D. Rohr, Grosse Pointe
for unrestricted support of the Law School _...5.............................................5,000
M. Rosenblatt & Son, Inc., New York, New York
for the Rosenblatt-Michigan Award in the College of Engineering..................................,000
Royal Maccabees Life Insurance Company, Southfield
for the Maccabees Mutual Scholarship, University of Michigan-Dearborn.............. 10,000
Will and Barbara D. Scott Fund, Birmingham
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration............................. 5,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Social Work _..............................293,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School._................................................. 30,855
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Herman E. and Margaret M. Sokol Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies _..................................10,000
Standard Products Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering............................5,000
Helmut Stern Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society _.__.....................50,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, University of Michigan-Flint......6,425
Times Publishing Company, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Wallace House Maintenance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies......................25,000
Walter J. Truettner, Jr., Golf, Illinois
142 shares of J. C. Penny Corporation common stock for golf course restoration in
the Department of Athletics._..10,126
Constantine A. Tsangadas Estate
for Post-Classical Greek Program, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies......9,352
Harold and Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for student aid in the School of Education...............60,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts...........................................................5,530
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for macro molecular structure research in the Medical School......................20,000
Warner-Lambert Fundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for chemistry equipment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............62,500
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics _._..65,000
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering...59,996
Kenneth J. Wozniak, Orlando, Florida
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School       0..5,000
William E. Zimmie Trust
for the Benford-Zimmie Scholarship in the College of Engineering..5,000
AT&T Bell Laboratories, Short Hills, New Jersey
for fellowships in the College of Engineering...... 23,550
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering         _.7,500
Peter Aliferis, Alpena
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School......5,000


63




September Meeting, 1992


Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New York
for scholarships and other support in the Schools of Business Administration and
Medicine, and in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts............26,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School _.......................................20,000
American Academy of Otolarynology Head & Neck Surgery Foundation, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School _...............,
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School __.......................6,25 0
American Cancer Society, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and in the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................153,961
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for support in the College of Pharmacy..........................7,500
American Cyanamid Company, Wayne, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration....................................,000
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School _............... 10,000
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School _................................................ 80,500
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching  gifts.......................................................8,200
Amoco Oil Company, Chicago, Illinois
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering.......5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _........9,750
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan.....................5,866
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts _.................90,300
John H. Beemink, Grand Rapids
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..........     5,000
William N. Brown Trust
for the School of Business Administration __.        2......._....23,0        00
Lucile Thomas Cecil Estate
for the Lucile Thomas Cecil Athletics Fund in the Department of Athletics __...22,413
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering and for employee
matching gifts ___.......                                                _.221,850
Colgate-Palmolive Company, New York, New York
for the MBA Program Development Fund, School of Business Administration.....5,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
300 shares of Halliburton Company common stock for the Pauline M. Conger
Scholarship in the Alumni Association -_...9,938
Clifford L. and Laura H. Craig, Needham, Massachusetts
325 shares of Detroit Edison Company common stock for the Clifford L. and Laura
H. Craig Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Paul and
Dorothy Craig Scholarship in the Medical School.............10,745
Mary Fair Croushore Trust
for the Mary Fair Croushore Fund...............25,000
Margaret F. Cutting Estate
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................5,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School..122,044
J. Jefferson Davis, Amherst, New Hampshire
for support of the School of Music.......105,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School  _...10,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Fund in the College of Engineering __.5,000
Dover Fund, New York, New York
for the Robert I. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..............8,500
E-Y Laboratories, Inc., San Mateo, California
for the Minor J. and Mary Lou Coon Graduate Fellowship in the Medical School.-...5,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School..7.500


64




September Meeting, 1992


Henry Ford Health System, Detroit
for the Health Services Management and Policy Program, School of Public Health.... 10,500
Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School...................20,000
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.- -..... .-5,000
Carlton R. Fischer, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..     5 6,000
Ford Motor Company, Central Accounting Services, Dearborn
for the William Clay Ford funds in the College of Engineering and for the Ford
Manufacturing Management Fund in the School of Business Administration -...500,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for employee matching gifts...............   153,899
A. James French Society of Pathologists, Ann Arbor
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School ---..-..-..... 5,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts.-......................8,355
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering...............12,000
Gornick Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School......................................................5,000
Grand Aerie Fraternal Order of Eagles, Gaylord
for spina bifida research in the Medical School.................21,171
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development....................................................5,997
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.........7,500
Walter C. Groff Trust
for the Walter Groff Paleontology Fund and other museum support in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts...-............30,409
Hastings Mutual Insurance Company, Hastings
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration.......5,000
Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy ___..._...........10,000
Robert L. & Judith S. Hooker Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund and other support in the School of
Business Administration                      ----.. 6,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for minority and female program support in the College of Engineering......6,870
Jackson Pathology Associates, P.C., Jackson
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School _.0-              5,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School __17,900
Korea Foundation
for Korean Studies Program Development in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts _................. 100,000
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Juan Tienda Scholarship in the Law School -_._..                   -.10,000
Robert A. Kelb Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan......5,000
Noboru Kikuchi, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering     ~....-.....-..                30,000
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
6,900 shares of Knight-Ridder, Inc., common stock for Michigan Journalism
fellowships in the Schools of Business Administration, Law, and Medicine..4 437,500
Richard P. Kughn, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _.025,0       00
Leukemia Research Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for research in the Medical School _~                                         5,000
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering -..-...16,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for support of the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts
and the Macromolecular Research Center -..5,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for Luce Fund in Southeast Asian Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts -.50,000


65




September Meeting, 1992


Mazda Distributors Great Lakes, Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund, School of Business Administration.............10,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............17,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Schools of Dentistry, Medicine, and Public Health and in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  _..3..37,000
Mardigian Foundation, Southfield
for the Mardigian Library, University of Michigan-Dearborn.............-.......75,000
McGraw Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration........0...5,000
Medstat Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration .....................5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for employee matching gifts.........................6,365
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for employee matching gifts __.........................9,200
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute 9.................  195,125
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Quality Initiative Fund in the College of Engineering...........................................7,500
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School............................45,000
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School._.-._...........................................25......................25,273
John F. Nickoll, Los Angeles, California
for capital support of the Law School _._........................................6,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration..........5,000
Osterman Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the C. and W. Osterman Common Room in the Humanities Institute, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................50,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............25,000
Gilbert T. Patrick Estate
for the Gilbert Patrick Fund in the School of Music._.___..149,945
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts __.80,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Pharmacy and for employee matching gifts..........102,601
Radiological Society of North America, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..       10,000
Robert P. Raube Estate
for post graduate education in the School of Dentistry _....10,000
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for research at the University of Michigan-Flint _.....22,300
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins funds in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy _..  12,990
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Law School __3......__..37,500
Geary A. Rummler, Warren, New Jersey
for the George S. Odiorne Scholarship in the School of Business Administration _..5,000
William Henry Ruten Estate
for student aid in the School of Education and for unrestricted support of the
University of Michigan _        _.11                                        011,109
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 27,589
Anna Frances Schwinck Estate
for the John Joseph Schwinck II Student Aid Fund _ _0515,000
Shape Corporation, Grand Haven
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics._.10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering _..20,000
Louis Sklarow Memorial Fund, Buffalo, New York
for human genetics research in the Medical School...26,455
Robert A. Sullivan Estate
for the Robert A. Sullivan Professorship in the Law School __  7,00             8


66




September Meeting, 1992


Flora Hodgman Temple Trust, Detroit
for the Martha Cook Discretionary Fund, the Michigan League Development Fund,
and for unrestricted  support of the University of Michigan....................................................................6,500,Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah
for research  in  the  M edical School.......................................................................................................... 19,461
Darle L. Tobel, Novi
for the Charles I. Tobel Memorial in the Medical School.................................................................  6,000
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for optical sciences research in the College of Engineering...........................................................32,000
Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
for research  in  the Medical School.................................................................................................. 000
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration........................................  10,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group
for Alumnae Council scholarships in the Alumni Association..................................................................6,250
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group
for the Patricia Piatt Lawson Fund in the Michigan League, the Elizabeth
VanDen Bosch Scholarship, and other student aid in the Alumni Association...............................8,750
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northbrook, Illinois
11,000 shares of Walgreen Company common stock for the Jean and Charles R.
Walgreen, Jr., Professorship in Education, School of Education...........................................  404,250
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts......................................................................................................................... 7,240
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for the Crystallography Facility in the Biophysics Research Division and for the
University Musical Society...................................... 25,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the Jack D. Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research Professorship in the
School of Business Administration................................... 100,000
Whiting Foundation, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library Development Fund............................................... 25,000
Xerox Corporation, Palo Alto, California
for cognitive science and machine intelligence research in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................................................... 80,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Lynne Aldrich, Detroit
Victor Vasarely's "Sette" (1989) color serigraph, framed, for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn Art Collection
Apple Computers, Southfield
ten Apple Mac-IIc computers with accessories for the Office of Health Sciences Information
Technology and Networking in the Medical Center
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
three books on French crystal, including a leather-bound limited edition of Baccarat by
Jean-Louis Curtis for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Art Collection
Peggy A. Brady, Brighton
a micro particle generator, a radon test chamber, and related items for the Department of
Environmental and Industrial Health
Alice Berle Crawford, Ann Arbor
an Italina painting from the Umbrian School, entitled: "Madonna and Child with Saints,"
tempera and gold on panel for the Museum of Art
Discount Computer, Inc., Detroit
a scanner, Paradise window accelerator, and four megabyte memorial module for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn
Betty D. Ettlie, Ann Arbor
arctic clothing and a Plains beaded belt for the Museum of Anthropology
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
a 1991 Ford Taurus stationwagon for the Transportation Research Institute
David C. L. Gosling, White Pigeon
a collection of 3,918 insect specimens for the Museum of Zoology-Insect Division
Mary M. Crapo Hyde, Sommerville, New Jersey
Martin Milmore's bisque porcelain bust of Abraham Lincoln for the Crapo Room of the
University of Michigan-Flint Library
Kiwanis Club of Dearborn, Inc., Dearborn
ten picnic tables and table paint for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane


67




September Meeting, 1992


Ruth Sluiter, Dearborn
a wood-frame splint woven children's settee and two chairs believed to be owned by the Fords
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Alan Sonfist, New York, New York
John Goodyear's "Moving Negative," painted wood and canvas for the Museum of Art
William & Electra Stamelos, Dearborn
blown glass sculptures: Joel Philip Myers' "Black Vase" (layered and acid polished), Tom
McGlaughlin's 'Vase," and Stephen Dee Edwards' "Untitled 6-25-86" (copper plate) for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn Art Collection
Tektronix, Chicago, Illinois
a Phaser II PXI color printer for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics
Mercedes A. True, Wayne
an IBM PS2/30 computer system, an Epson printer, and spreadsheet, wordprocessing, and
management software for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens
C. Edward and Mary Ellen Wall, Ypsilanti
two glass sculptures: Mark Peiser's "Untitled" (blue amber cast), and Dale Chihuly's "Pink
Seaform with Green Lip Wrap" for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Art Collection
Emil A. Weddige, Ann Arbor
a collection of 221 works of art: including lithographs, etchings, screenprints, etc., by such
artists as Campigli, Chagall, Clave, Crawford, Dali, Icart, Leger, Miro, Picasso,
Toulouse-Lautrec, etc, for the Museum of Art
Glenn A. Weideman, Baker City, Oregon
a Paleolithic stone axe for the Museum of Anthropology


Additional gifts, ranging from $1 to
following donors:
Eugene Arden, Southfield
John Arthos, Jr., Ann Arbor
D. R. Shackleton Bailey, Ann Arbor
Alfred Block, Romulus
George J. Bornstein, Ann Arbor
Stephen S. Cheng, Dearborn
John C. Dann, Dexter
John O. Lang DeLancey, Ann Arbor
Sandra L. Dunavan, Ann Arbor
Allen S. Ehrlich, Ann Arbor
Alice Ellsworth, Ann Arbor
Shake Ketefian, Ann Arbor
Stephen Kowalski, Lincoln Park
Charles F. Lehmann, Ann Arbor
Victor H. Miesel, Ann Arbor
Karen Mari Mudar, Ypsilanti
Jack Pierson, Flint


$999 in value, were received from the
Jon H. Rush, Dexter
Tom Ryan Distributing Company, Inc., Flint
Willard Shy, Saginaw
Tobin A. Siebers, Ann Arbor
David C. Skaggs, Bowling Green, Ohio
Michael W. Skinner, Dearborn
Graham Smith, Ann Arbor
Walter M. Spink, Ann Arbor
Virginia E. Stein, Ann Arbor
Dwight W. Stevenson, Ann Arbor
Hal R. Varian, Ann Arbor
Tineke VaZandt, Santa Fe, New Mexico
Robert M. Warner, Ann Arbor
Fredrick Weissman, Franklin
Henry T. Wright, Ann Arbor
Joshua Wright, Ann Arbor
Walter F. Yates, Lexington, Kentucky


Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
Chi Loong Chow, Ph.D, D.Sc., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Chair, Department of
Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, three-year term, January 1, 1993


68




September Meeting, 1992


Fredrick L. Dunn, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
Sally Haslanger, Ph-D., Associate Professor of Philosophy
Mohammed Islam, Sc.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
October 1, 1992
Peter J. Polverini, D.D.Sc., DM.S. Professor of Dentistry, August 1, 1992
Sonya O. Rose, Ph.D., Professor ofHistory and Sociology, January 1, 1993
Hanes Walton, Jr., Ph.D., Professor of Political Science
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective July 1, 1992
Kenneth R. Silk, M.D., Associate Professor of Psychiatry
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
Sydney E. Bernard, Professor Emeritus of Social Work, reappointed to active status, fall
term 1992
Frederick J. Beutler, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
Professor Emeritus of Information and Control Engineering, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, August 1, 1992
Donald R. Brown, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Director, Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, reappointed Director,
Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, six-month term, July 1,1992
Harm Buning, Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, reappointed to active status, fall
term 1992
Samuel K Clark, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
reappointed to active status, six-month term, July 1,1992
Harold Cruse, Professor Emeritus of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, reappointed
to active status, fall term 1992
David G. Dickinson, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed
to active status, one-year term
Samuel J. Eldersveld, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, reappointed to active status,
winter term 1993
Aaron Finerman, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and
Director Emeritus of the Computing Center, reappointed to active status, one-year term
G. Robert Greenberg, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, July 1, 1992
James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and Curator Emeritus of Archaeology,
reappointed to active status, one-year term, July 1,1992
Victor M. Hawthorne, Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, July 1, 1992
Robert C. Hendrix, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to active status, one-year term
Ruth M. Heyn, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to
active status, one-year term, July 1,1992
Thomas Hilbish, Professor Emeritus of Music and Director Emeritus of University Choirs,
reappointed to active status, nine-month term
Herbert W. Johe, Assistant Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Architecture, reappointed
to active status, fall term 1992
Patricia A O'Connor, Associate Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
reappointed to active status, one-year term


69




September Meeting, 1992


Donald J. Patterson, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, reappointed to active
status, fall term 1992
Robert W. Schmidt, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to active status, one-year
term, August 1, 1992
Leonard Segel, Professor Emeritus of Mehcanical Engineering, reappointed to active status, fall
term 1992
Aaron M. Stern, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to
active status, one-year term, December 1, 1992
Alfred W. Storey, Associate Professor Emeritus of Speech, reappointed to active status, fall
term 1992
Warren H. Wagner, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Botany, Curator Emeritus of Pteridophytes, and
Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources, reappointed to active status, university year
Paul W. Zitzewitz, Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Associate Dean, College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Associate Dean, College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, UM-Dearborn, ten-month term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992
L. Rowell Huesmann, Professor of Communication, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Psychology, without tenure
Katherine R. Jones, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, also
appointed Associate Professor of Health Services Management & Policy, School of Public
Health, without tenure, five-year term
Sabine MacCormack, Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed
Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure
The following committee appointments were approved:
Division of inesiolol Executive Committee
Merle L. Foss, two-year term ending June 30, 1994, vice Charles J. Worringham, term expired
Bernard P. Maloy, two-year term ending June 30, 1994, vice Bruce A Watkins, term expired
Institute of Public Policy Studies Exective Committee
Kenneth E. Warner, three-year term ending June 30,1995, to succeed himself
Committee on Military Oficer Eucation Programs
Mary Ann Swain, one-year term ending June 30,1993, new appointment
E. Benjamin Wylie, one-year term ending June 30, 1993, to succeed himself
Extensions of Leaves of Absence. The Regents approved extensions of
the leaves of absence for John L. Harer, professor of mathematics, through June
30, 1992, and Glenn E. Schembechler, assistant professor of sports management
and communication, through August 31, 1993.
Interim   Director of Undergraduate Admissions. The Regents approved the appointment of Theodore L. Spencer as interim director of undergraduate admissions, effective August 22, 1992.
Interim   University Registrar. The Regents approved the appointment
of Douglas R. Woolley as interim university registrar, effective July 1, 1992.


70




September Meeting, 1992


Donald C. Cook Professor of Business Administration. The Regents
approved an extension of the appointment of Claes G. Fornell as the Donald C.
Cook Professor of Business Aministration for a five year period, effective September 1, 1992.
Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration The Regents approved the appointment of Youjae Yi as the Sanford R.
Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration for a one-year period,
effective September 1, 1992.
Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law. The Regents approved an extension of the appointment of Terrance Sandalow as the Edson R. Sunderland
Professor of Law for a five-year period, effective September 1, 1992.
Charles F. and Edith J. Clyne Professor of Law. The Regents approved an extension of the appointment of Alfred William Brian Simpson as the
Charles F. and Edith J. Clyne Professor of Law for a five-year period, effective
September 1, 1992.
Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law. The Regents approved an extension
of the appointment of Lawrence W. Waggoner as the Lewis M. Simes Professor of
Law for a five-year period, effective September 1, 1992.
Max Kade Visiting Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures. The Regents approved the appointment of Karen H. Ebert as the Max
Kade Visiting Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures for the fall term
1992.
T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics.
The Regents approved the appointments of William Jockusch and Irena Swanson
as T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professors of Mathematics for three-year
periods, effective September 1, 1992.
Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies and Psychology. The
Regents approved the appointment of Hideo Kojima as the Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies and Psychology for the winter term 1993.
Sylvia L. Thrupp Professor in Anthropology. The Regents approved a
change in the name of the Sylvia L. Thrupp Professor in Anthropology to the
Sylvia L. Thrupp Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies.
Sylvia L. Thrupp Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies.
The Regents approved the appointment of Sherry B. Ortner as the Sylvia L.
Thrupp Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies for a five-year period,
effective September 1, 1992.
Richard Hudson Research Professor of History. The Regents approved the appointment of Jonathan Mills Thornton III as the Richard Hudson
Research Professor of History for the fall term 1992.


71




September Meeting, 1992


The Netherlands Visiting Professor of Surgery. The Regents approved the appointment of Rik Huiskes as The Netherlands Visiting Professor of
Surgery for a one-year period, effective August 1, 1992.
Army Officer Education Program. The Regents approved the appointment of Mary J. Sonntag as hair of the Army Officer Education Program for a
three-year period, effective July 27, 1992.
Jack D. Sparks-Whirpool Corporation Research Professorship in
Business Administration The Regents approved a change in the terms of the
Jack D. Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research Professorship in Business Administration, as described in the Regents Communication.
University Historian The Regents approved the appointment of Robert
M. Warner as the university historian, effective September 1, 1992.
Associate Dean of Students, Multicultural Portfolio. The Regents approved the appointment of Richard E. Carter as associate dean of students, multicultural portfolio, effective September 1, 1992.
Associate Dean of Students, Activities and Programs Portfolio. The
Regents approved the appointment of Frank J. Cianciola as associate dean of students, activities and programs portfolio, effective September 1, 1992.
Associate Dean of Students, Specialized Services Portfolio. The Regents approved the appointment of A Delories Sloan as associate dean of students, specialized services portfolio, effective September 1, 1992.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Timothy L. Stenson, JD., Assistant Professor of Architecture
School ofArt
Steven K Canine, M.FA, Assistant Professor of Architecture,
School of Dentistry
Edward J. Billy, DM.D., Lecturer in Dentistry, August 1, 1992
Alayne S. Evans, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1992
Glen B. S. Mitchell, DD.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1992
Steven D. Shoha, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1992
School of Education
Arnetha F. Ball, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
Gail P. Baxter, PhD., Assistant Professor of Education
Arie L. Nettles, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education


72




September Meeting, 1992


Klotylda M. L. Phillippi, MA, Lecturer in Education
Carolyn J. Riehl, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, January 1, 1993
College of Enineerin
Ellen M. Arruda, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
David R. Dowling, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Kamal Sarabandi, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Michael P. Wellman, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Division ofKinesiologv
Douglas R. Daugherty, M.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology, July 1, 1992
College of Literature Science, and the Arts
Catherine E. Badgley, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Paleontology
Susanto Basu, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Terence J. Bazzett, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology
Marc S. Bernstein, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Near Eastern Studies
Luis A Betancourt, MA, Lecturer II in Sociology
Wayne M. Butler, Ph.D., Lecturer III in English
Matthew M. Cariello, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Peter A Cholak, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Karen E. Clark, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Diana I. Cordova, BA, Assistant Professor of Psychology, January 1, 1993
Giora Etzion, MA, Lecturer I in Hebrew Language, July 1, 1992
John W. Hanley, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Jane A Hassinger, M.S.W., Lecturer II in Women's Studies
V. Blair Hobbs, MA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Kali A K Israel, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History
Susan L. Johnson, MA, Instructor in History and Women's Studies
Steven J. Kahn, MA, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
George C. Kulesza, Ph.D., Lecturer III in Biology, July 1, 1992
David D. Li, B.S., Assistant Professor of Economics
Elisa Lichtenbaum, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Daniel J. Lyons, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Jonathan L. Marwil, Ph.D., Lecturer II in History
Katharine M. McGovern, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Sarah Messer, BA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Yair N. Minsky, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Nelson J. Moe, BA, Instructor in Italian
Noga Morag-Levine, MA, Lecturer II in Political Science
Laura R. Moseley, J.D., Lecturer II in Communication, July 1, 1992
Carol L. Munn, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Maria G. Parker, M.S., Lecturer II in English
Nigel J. E. Pitt, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Gilda M. Povolo, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Mark Randolph, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Jill A Rosser, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature
David Roth, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Elizabeth L. Sears, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art
Patrick 0. Seitzer, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Astronomy
Roseanne J. Sension, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Ennio S. Stacchetti, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Jacqueline A Stevens, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science
Daphne E. Swabey, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, July 1, 1992
Irena Swanson, Ph.D., T. I-L Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Dickran Toumnjan, MA, Lecturer I in Slavic Languages and Literatures
Karen A van Hoek, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Paula Weizman, BA, Lecturer I in Hebrew Language, July 1, 1992
Law School
Debra A Livingston, J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, July 1, 1992
Deborah C. Malamud, J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, July 1, 1992


73




September Meeting, 1992


Medical School
David M. Bach, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Bahri M. Bilir, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
R. Alexander Blackwood, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1992
Barbara A Blodi, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7,1992
James A Boozan, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1992
Carol R. Bradford, M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, July 1,1992
Steven E. Brooks, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1992
Kimberly A Brown, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Randall W. Brown, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1992
Carl R. Chudnofsky, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1992
Joseph G. Craig, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1992
Michael J. Disher, M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1992
Lawrence W. Elmer, Ph.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1, 1992
Sara J. Erickson, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Nina Fukunaga, M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, July 1,1992
Gordon T. Goodman, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Yvonne M. Hauge, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Joseph M. Henderson, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Jennifer L. Hoock, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, July 15, 1992
Thomas P. Huber, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Thomas S. Huber, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1992
Arlan T. Johnson, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7,1992
Ian H. Kaden, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7 1992
Josephine Z. Kasa-Vubu, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1992
Aviva L. Katz, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1992
David M. Katz, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1992
Ella A, Kazerooni, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1992
John C. Krauss, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Kathryn A Krueger, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
William M. Kuzon, Jr., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1992
Edward Lake, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Daniel J. Legault, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Israel Liberzon, M.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, July 1, 1992
Mark J. Lowell, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1992
Kenneth S. Lown, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Sonja M. Lozowski, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
William F. Maragos, Ph.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1, 1992
Pamela M. Marcovitz, MD., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Mary E. Metrou, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 13, 1992
Lori J. Mosca, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Internal Medicine, June 29,1992
David W. Muller, MB.B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Anglea G. Perry, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1992
Lori J. Pierce, M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1992
Jeffrey D. Punch, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1992
Raymond J. Rion, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, July 13,1992
Wilson H. Y. Roa, M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, July 6,1992
Marilyn A. Roubidoux, M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology, August 24, 1992
Siv B. Saetre, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1992
Sharon H. Smith, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1992
Cynthia N. Steimle, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1992
John M. Sullivan, Ph.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 1,1992
Daniel H. Teitelbaum, MD., Assistant Professor of Surgery, August 1, 1992
Andrea Todisco, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992
Khaled K. Toumeh, M)D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1992
Andrew W. Walter, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1992
Gary D. Wu, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1992


74




September Meeting, 1992


Gregory A Yanik, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 15, 1992
Mark A Zamorski, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice, July 1, 1992
Brian J. Zink, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1992
School of Nursing
Cheryl M. Killion, Ph.D., Assitant Professor of Nursing
Beth C. Russell, M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
School of Public Health
Michael E. Chernew, BA, Lecturer in Health Services Management and Policy
Edith C. Kieffer, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration
Robert L. Strawderman, Sc.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics
UM-Dearborn Colege of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Marie P. Waung, MA, Lecturer in Psychology
Jing Zhao, B.S., Lecturer in Mathematics
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Yi L. Murphey, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
UM-Flint ColUee of Arts and Sciences
John Bellows, M.S., Lecturer in Biology
Carolyn Campbell, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of African-American Studies Program
James H. McDonald, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology
Bruno Paige, M.M., Assistant Professor of Music
Randall L. Repic, MA, Lecturer in Resource and Community Sciences
UM-Flint School of Management
David A Cheslow, M.BA, Lecturer in Management
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Gideon A Rosen, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Philosophy, September 1, 1992
Medical School
Barbara S. Adams, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, August 1, 1992
Susan Blitz, from Instructor to Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, February 1, 1992
Jeffrey D. Clement, from Lecturer to House Officer in Internal Medicine
Patrick W. McLaughlin, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor III of Radiation Oncology
Mohammad I. Othman, from Lecturer in Epidemiology, School of Public Health, to Research
Fellow, Medical School
Gregory E. Plautz, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases
David S. Rosen, from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Lecturer in
Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Robert Schmouder, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
School of Public Health
C. Alison McIntosh, from Assistant Professor of Population Planning to Assistant Research
Scientist, August 1, 1992
UM-Dearborn School of Education
Joseph Lapides, from Assistant Professor of Education to Lecturer in Education,
September 1, 1992


75




September Meeting, 1992


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cllege of Architecture and Urban Planning
Laura E. Kodres, Assistant Professor ofFinance, contract leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Mitchell J. Rycus, Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
School of Education
Loren S. Barritt, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Lawrence S. Berlin, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1992, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Gerald Gurin, Professor of Higher Education, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, June 1 -June 30, 1992, and retirement furlough, July 1, 1992-June 30, 1993
Janet H. Lawrence, Associate Dean and Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-June 30,1993
Elizabeth Fay Sulzby, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
College of Enineerin
Mary L. Brake, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Photios G. Ioannou, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Edward W. Larsen, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-May 31,1993
Christophe Pierre, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Richard E. Sonntag, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
George C. Summerfield, Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Albert F. Yee, Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992, and leave
without salary, January 1-May 31,1993
School of Information and Library Studies
Miranda L. Pao, Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31,1992
College of iterature. Science, and the Arts
William R. Alexander, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Sally L. Allen, Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Renee Anspach, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Toni C. Antonucci, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Human Developmental Psychology, without tenure,
Medical School, special duty assignment, September 1, 1992-July 31, 1993
Charles M. Baxter, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Joseph L. Blotner, Professor of English, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Robbins Burling, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure, retirement furlough, September 1,1992-May 31, 1993
David C. Butler, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Kathleen M. Canning, Assistant Professor of History, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Alina M. Clej, Associate Professor of French and Comparative Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1993


76




September Meeting, 1992


E. Valentine Daniel, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Michael C. Dawson, Associate Professor of Political Science and Afroamerican and African
Studies, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
William R. Dawson, Dugald E. S. Brown Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1-December 31,1991
Nicholas F. Delbanoo, Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Douglas G. Dickson, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1,
1992-May 31,1994
Igor Dolgachev, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Elizabeth M. Douvan, Catharine Neafie Kellogg Professor of Psychology and Woman's Studies,
with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1995
Todd M. Endelman, William Haber Professor of Modern Jewish History and Professor of
History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992, and duty off
campus January 1-May 31,1993
Daniel N. Fader, Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Daniel C. Fisher, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, and Professor of Biological
Science, without tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1992
Bruce W. Frier, Professor of Classics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, September, 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Alice Fulton, Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992, and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Rita Gitik, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Cedomil Goic, Domingo Faustino Sarmiento Professor of Spanish-American Literature, with
tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Deborah E. Goldberg, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Laurence A Goldstein, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
L. A. Peter Gosling, Professor of Southeast Asian Studies, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1-December 31,1992
Raymond Grew, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Sandra R. Gunning, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 1992-May 31,1993
Philip J. Hanlon, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of
Mathematics, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Donald G. Higman, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Peter G. Hinman, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
June M. Howard, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
John H. Humphrey, Professor of Classical Archaeology and Latin, with tenure, leave without
salary, January 1-May 31, 1993
James S. Jackson, Professor of Psychology, with tenure College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure, School of
Public Health, duty off campus, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993, and special duty
assignment, September 1, 1992-July 31, 1993
Virginia C. Kane, Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31,1992
Avery Katz, Assistant Professor of Ecomomics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, contract leave, September 1-December 31,1992
Peter B. Kaufman, Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September, 1 -December 31, 1992
Thomas M. Kavanagh, Professor of French Literature, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Michael D. Kennedy, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1o
May 31, 1993


77




September Meeting, 1992


Jan Kmenta, Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without tenure,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Paul Knochel, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Glenn M. Knudsvig, Professor of Latin, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Eugene F. Krause, Professor of Mathemaics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31,1993
John R. Kucich, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1993
Richard G. Lawton, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1993
Rudi P. Lindner, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Eric P. Lormand, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31,1993
Gregory L. Lucente, Professor of Italian and Comparative Literature, with tenure, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31,1993
Michael Makin, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Joseph P. Marino, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Guy R. Mermier, Professor of French, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Brinkley M. Messick, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, duty off campus, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Mark E. Meyerhoff, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31,1993
Walter D. Mignolo, Professor of Latin American Literature and Literary Theory, with tenure,
leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1993
Andre Modigliani, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Hugh L. Montgomery, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31,1993
Anita Norich, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,1993
A. F XK. Organski, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, duty off campus, May 12 -June 11, 1992
Sherry B. Ortner, Sylvia L. Thrupp Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,1993
Jeffrey R. Parsons, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -June 30, 1993
William R. Paulson, Associate Professor of French, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Romance Languages and Literatures, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992,
and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1993
Silvia Pedraza, Associate Professor of Sociology and American Culture, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Laura E. Perez, Assistant Professor of Spanish, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Michelle D. Perry, Assistant Professor of Psychology, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
David S. Potter, Associate Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Jeffrey B. Rauch, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Omry Ronen, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31 1993
Robert S. Savit, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Ruth S. Scodel, Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -May 31,1993
Robert L. Shaffer, Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer Professor of Fungal
Taxonomy, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1991-August 31, 1993
Vitalij V. Shevoroshkin, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Professor of Slavic Languages
and Literatures, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992


78




September Meeting, 1992


Carl P. Simon, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Professor of Economics and Public
Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992, and duty off campus,
January 1-May 31,1993
Gerald R. Smith, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Professor of Geology and Mineralogy,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 1992
David B. Solnit, Assistant Professor of Thai Language and Literature, leave without salary,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Abigail J. Stewart, Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Maris A Vinovskis, Professor of History, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Milford H. Wolpoff, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Henry T. Wright, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -August 31, 1993
Law School
David L. Chambers III, Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate Professor, with tenure, contract leave,
January 1-May 31,1993
Jerold H. Israel, Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
John H. Jackson, Hessel E. Yntema Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary,
January 1-May 31,1993
Medical School
Debra M. Ikeda, Assistant Professor of Radiology, leave without salary, July 1, 1992 -June 30, 1993
John H. Lillie, Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Medical School, and
Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1992
School of Music
James M. Borders, Associate Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
John R. Brown, Professor of Theatre, with tenure, School of Music, and Professor of English
Language and Literature, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Glenn W. DeYoung, Jr., Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Jessica K Fogel, Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Philip Kerr, Professor of Theatre, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
James W. Kibbie, Associate Professor of Music (Organ), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Andrew W. Mead, Associate Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1993
Martha J. Shell, Associate Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Joanne A Smith, Associate Professor of Music (Piano), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
R. Brent Wagner, Associate Professor of Music (Musical Theatre), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
School of Natural Resoure and Environment
John R. Bassett, Professor of Forestry, with tenure, retirment furlough, July 1, 1992 -June 30, 1994
Bobbi S. Low, Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Kenneth J. Polakowski, Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
School of Nursing
Dorothy Donabedian, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1992-May 31,1993


79




September Meeting, 1992


Shake Ketefian, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1- May 31, 1993
Carol J. Loveland-Cherry, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Collee of Pharmacv
Gordon M. Crippen, Professor of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-February 28, 1993
School of Public Health
Jason L. Finkle, Professor of Population Planning, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Tom Hickey, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1993
Alan C. H. Tsai, Associate Professor of Human Nutrition, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1993
Institute for Social Research
James S. House, Director, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, and Professor
of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, special duty
assignment, July 1, 1992June 30, 1993, and sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31,1993
School of Social Work
William C. Birdsall, Associate Professsor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31,1992
Rose C. Gibson, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Elizabeth Mutschler, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts Sciences, and Letters
M. Michael Akiyama, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31,1992
James E. Gruber, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Elizabeth L. Higashi, Assistant Professor of Art History and Humanities, leave without salary,
September 1, 1992-April 30, 1993
John N. Kotre, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Jacqueline E. Lawson, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-April 30, 1993
John F. Riebesell, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Victor J. Streeter, Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, School of
Management, and Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, without
tenure, School of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1993
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Hani I. Fakhouri, Professor of Sociology/Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31,1993
Peter R. Gluck, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Richard Hill-Rowley, Associate Professor of Resource and Community Sciences, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-May 31 1993
Thomas A Wrobel, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Matthew F. Wyneken, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
UMFlint School of Health Professions and Studies
C. Peethambaran Kartha, Professor of Quantitative Methods in Management, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Lucinda A Pfalzer, Associate Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1993


80




September Meeting, 1992


CANCELLATIONS OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Colege of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Donald I. Meyer, Professor of Physics, with tenure, cancellation of sabbatical leave (previously
reported as January 1-May 31, 1992)
UM-Derborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Bernard W. Klein, Interim Chancellor, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, and Professor of Public Administration, without tenure, School of
Education, cancellation of retirement furlough (previously reported as September 1, 1992 -April 30, 1993)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective June 30, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Kent J. Benham, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1992
Anthony R. Bielkie, Lecturer in Dentistry
Rachel L. Hamilton, Lecturer in Dentistry
Sreenivas Koka, Lecturer in Dentistry
Thomas D. Pappert, Lecturer in Dentistry
Bonnie A Pounder, Lecturer in Dentistry, August 1, 1992
Brian W. Salesin, Lecturer in Dentistry
Colege of Engineering
Michael W. Walker, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
without tenure
Colege of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Matthew J. Alexander, Assistant Professor of Linguistics, May 31, 1992
Chi-Keung Cheung, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 31, 1992
David A Hollinger, Professor of History, with tenure, December 31, 1992
Naihuan Jing, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 31, 1992
Steven J. Kahn, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, August 14, 1992
Oliver E. Overseth, Jr., Professor of Physics, with tenure, July 31, 1992
Juan C. Redondo, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, July 31, 1992
Medical School
Prabhakar Baliga, Lecturer in Surgery
Susan R. Barry, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, June 30, 1992
David E. Burdette, Lecturer in Neurology, July 31, 1992
Preston V. Dilts, Jr., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, August 31, 1992
Todd J. Florin, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Christopher M. Goodman, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Kimberly S. Harnist, Lecturer in Radiology
Jeanne Hassing, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Gary D. Hutchins, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
John L. Kemink, Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, June 25, 1992
Jeffrey R. Kunin, Lecturer in Radiology
Jeffrey M. Leiden, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Assistant Professor
of Microbiology and Imunology
Roy G. Marcus, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Joel R. Meyer, Lecturer in Radiology
Charles K Moore, Instructor of Internal Medicine, June 24, 1992
Allen J. Naftilan, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Brian S. Nao, Clinical Instructor II in Surgery
Gregory R. Neagos, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Carl E. Orringer, Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, May 31, 1992
Mack T. Orsborn, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 30, 1991
Randall K. Petersen, Lecturer in Radiology


81




September Meeting, 1992


Ara K. Pridjian, Lecturer in Surgery
Harry F. Rinker, Lecturer in Radiology
Walter M. Romano, Lecturer in Radiology
Katrina A Rosculet, Lecturer in Radiology
Howard J. Simon, Lecturer in Radiology
Andre R Thebert, Lecturer in Radiology
Roy E. Twyman, Assistant Profeesor ofNeurology
Kevan E. VanLandingham, Lecturer in Neurology
Julian Wan, Lecturer in Surgery
William G. Way, Jr., Lecturer in Radiology
Brent W. Weston, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Vance E. Wilson, Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Niall C. T. Wilton, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, July 31, 1992
Eric R. Woods, Lecturer in Radiology
Jonathan J. Yobbagy, Lecturer in Radiology
Daniel J. Yousif, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 8, 1992
School of Music
Leslie R. Bassett, Albert A Stanley Distinguished University Professor of Music (Composition),
with tenure, May 31, 1992
Kenneth P. Cazan, Lecturer in Music (Opera), May 31, 1992
Jeffrey P. Gilliam, Assistant Professor of Piano, May 31, 1992
Ann M. Klautsch, Assistant Professor of Theatre (Voice and Acting), May 31, 1992
Richard J. Klautsch, Lecturer in Theatre and Drama, May 31, 1992
William N. Rothstein, Associate Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, May 31, 1992
School of Natural Resurces and Environment
Glenn L. Smith, Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, May 31, 1992
School of Nursing
Sharon J. Burke, Lecturer in Nursing, May 31, 1992
Mary F. Winkel, Lecturer in Nursing, May 31, 1992
School of Social Work
Sharon M Keigher, Assistant Professor of Social Work, May 31, 1992
UM-Dearborn
Blenda J. Wilson, Chancellor and Professor of Public Administration and Education, without
tenure, August 31, 1992
UM-Dearborn School of Management
Frederick J. Gentner, Lecturer in Business Administration, August 31, 1992
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the following retirement memoirs:
Kenneth A. Lockridge, professor of history, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1992. A nationally recognized historian of the American colonial period, he has been an important figure in the teaching of American colonial
history at the University for 22 years.
Professor Lockridge received his B.A degree, magna cum laude, from Yale
University in 1962, and completed his M.A and Ph.D. degrees at Princeton
University in 1964 and 1965, respectively. A member of Phi Beta Kappa at Yale,
he was elected as a Woodrow Wilson Fellow at Princeton in 1962 and subsequently received more than 15 international fellowships and awards. Between
1965 and 1970, he taught at the University of Illinois at Chicago Circle. Professor


82




September Meeting, 1992


Lockridge came to the University of Michigan as an associate professor of history
in 1970 and was promoted to professor in 1974.
In 1970, Professor Lockridge published his first major book: A New England Town: The First Hundred Years. This volume was chosen as one of the
"significant books in American history" for the five-year period 1969-1974 in a
poll printed in The American Scholar in 1975. By 1985, when an expanded edition was published, more than 130,000 copies of this influential work had been
sold. A New England Town combined sophisticated quantitative methodology
with a sensitive treatment of qualitative aspects of New England town development. These attributes also characterze Professor Lockridge's later work, Literacy in Colonial New England, and a series of subsequent essays on historical
demography. In 1981, Cambridge University Press published his Settlement and
Unsettlement in Early America: The Crisis of Political Legitimacy Before the
Revolution. These volumes and a series of distinguished essays firmly established
Professor Lockridge as one of the country's leading colonial historians.
While at Michigan, Professor Lockridge also undertook a number of significant professional assignments. He served as a consultant to the Newberry Library's Center for Family and Community History in Chicago, was a consultant on
demographic databases at Umea University in Sweden, and played a prominent
role in various Department of History internal committees, particularly those
having to do with fellowships. He leaves Michigan having contributed greatly to
the development of its distinguished program in early American history and with
our very best wishes.
The Regents now salute this nationally recognized American colonialist for
his scholarship and dedicated service to the University and the historical profession by naming Kenneth A Lockridge Professor Emeritus of History.
Patricia A. O'Connor, M.D., associate professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1992.
Dr. O'Connor received her AB. degree in 1949, her M.D. degree in 1953,
and her M.P.H. degree in 1958, all from the University of Michigan. She completed her residency in pediatrics at University of Michigan Hospitals from
1953-1956, and was an instructor in pediatrics from 1956-57. She spent the years
1958-63 in Arkansas, serving as an instructor and assistant clinical professor in
pediatrics at the University of Arkansas Medical Center, medical director of the
Child Development Center, and director of the Division of Maternal and Child
Health of the Arkansas State Board of Health. She returned to the University of
Michigan Medical Center as an assistant professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases in the Medical School and as assistant professor of maternal and
child health in the School of Public Health, and assistant director of the pediatric
outpatient clinic at the University of Michigan Medical Center in 1963. She was
named director of the pediatric outpatient clinic in 1968. In 1969, she was
promoted to associate professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases and of
maternal and child health. She remained active in the clinical service, teaching,
and administration of that division until the onset of her retirement furlough in
the summer of 1991.


83




September Meeting, 1992


Dr. O'Connor's career has been characterized by her consistent devotion to
the rigorous training of medical students and pediatric residents in those aspects
of medicine which are designed to prevent illness and promote normal growth
and development. She was awarded the Kaiser Permanente Award for Excellence
in Teaching in the Clinical Sciences because of her 25 years of outstanding service to that goal Throughout most of her career, she was responsible for all of
the administrative and much of the clinical supervision of medical student education in all facets of ambulatory pediatrics. In this role, she was responsible for
nearly 10 percent of the educational experience of every third-year medical student for 30 years. Dr. O'Connor's personal clinical practice was exceptional in
that she provided service to large numbers of multiple handicapped children and
their parents. Her experience and skill in that endeavor, much used as a medical
model, will not be readily replaced.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for her dedicated service by
naming Patricia A O'Connor Associate Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
Regent Brown moved approval of a recommendation for an honorary degree. Regent Varner seconded the motion. Following some discussion, the vote
was taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
June 30,1992 Report of Investments
Vice President Womack reported that the total of the University's invested
funds (University Investment Pool, University Endowment Fund, plus other invested funds) was $1.4 billion as of June 30, 1991, and $1.7 billion as of June 30,
1992. In 1991-92, the University Endowment Fund passed $500 million and by
June 30 had exceeded $600 million; over the past 10 years, the fund's purchasing
power had increased by 3.7 percent per annum. Vice President Womack pointed
out that the total return in the past year was 12.2 percent, which highlights the
value of diversification of the assets.
Vice President Womack praised the efforts of the development office, deans,
department chairs, and others around the University, as well as to University
Investment Officer Norman Herbert and his staff, for contributing to the growth
in the endowment Regents Power, Brown, and Baker also complimented the
people responsible for the growth of the investment portfolio.
Telephone Replacement Project
Regent Brown moved to authorize an increase in the budget for the Telephone Replacement Project to $46,140,000 to cover the increased cost of the telephone replacement contract. Regent Power seconded the motion.


84




September Meeting, 1992


Regent Baker observed that he had had serious reservations about certain
aspects of this project since its inception and had hoped that some of his concerns
would have been satisfied over the life of the construction project. He stated he
would vote against the motion, because these concerns have not been satisfied.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved, with Regents
Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent
Baker opposed.
Refinancing of $65,115,000 Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1990
Regent Power moved that the Regents adopt a resolution amending the
resolution authorizing the issuance and delivery of the Hospital Revenue Bonds,
Series 1992B. The resolution also authorizes the vice president and chief
financial officer to refinance all or a portion of the $65,115,000 Hospital Revenue
Bonds, Series 1990, in addition to the Series 1986A bonds, and to: 1) develop
with the underwriters the terms and legal documentation for the bonds, and to
prepare, circulate, and execute the preliminary and the final official statements
describing the bonds, the University, the Hospital, and its affairs; and 2) apply
for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings for the bonds; and 3) obtain a final proposal for the bonds, including price and initial interest rate, negotiate, execute, and deliver the bond
purchase agreement with the underwriters, a trust indenture with a trustee to be
selected, and related documentation setting forth the terms of the bonds and the
sale and delivery of the bonds, all within the limitations of the resolution. Regent
McFee seconded the motion.
Vice President Womack noted that the net savings from refinancing would
equal about $2.5 million. The vote was taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously. The text of the resolution is as follows:
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AMENDING RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND
DELIVERY OF HOSPITAL REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS, AND
PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") adopted on July 17,
1992 a "Resolution of the Regents of the University of Michigan Authorizing the Issuance and
Delivery of Hospital Revenue Refunding Bonds, and Providing for Other Matters Relating
Thereto" (the "Resolution"), which Resolution provided for the issuance and delivery of Hospital
revenue Refunding Bonds for the purpose of refunding a portion of the Issuer's outstanding
$130,720,000 Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1986A; and
WHEREAS, it is now appropriate to amend the Resolution to permit the issuance of Hospital Revenue Refunding Bonds to refund all or a portion of the Issuer's $65,115,000 Hospital
Revenue Bonds, Series 1990;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Resolution is hereby amended as follows:


85




September Meeting, 1992


(a)  The third "WHEREAS" clause of the Resolution is hereby amended to
read in its entirety as follows:
"WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued under the Master Indenture its $130,720,000 Hospital Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
1986A, dated as of May 1, 1986, and its $65,115,000 Hospital Revenue
Bonds, Series 1990, dated as of December 15, 1990 (collectively, the "Prior
Bonds"); and"
(b) The first and second sentences of paragraph 1 of the Resolution are hereby amended to read as follows:
"The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery
of the Bonds of the Issuer to be designated as shall be determined by an
Authorized Officer (but which designation shall include the words "HOSPITAL REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS") in the aggregate original
principal amount of not to exceed $185,000,000, to be dated as of the date
or dates to be determined by an Authorized Officer, for the purpose of
providing funds to pay the cost of the refunding of all or that portion of
the Prior Bonds as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer and costs
incidental to issuance of the Bonds and refunding of the Prior Bonds. The
Bonds should be serial Bonds or term Bonds or a combination thereof maturing not later than December 1, 2024."
(c)  All references in the Resolution to an aggregate original principal
amount of not to exceed Seventy-Five Million Dollars ($75,000,000) shall be amended
to increase the amount to not to exceed One Hundred Eighty-Five Million Dollars
($185,000,000).
2. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict hereof
be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists. As amended hereby, the Resolution is ratified and confirmed.
Regent Baker suggested that once all of the bond refinancing has been completed, a summary report be compiled on the fixed costs that will have been saved
as a result of the refinancing.
Frederick Babcock Trust
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a recommendation that the treasurer and investment
officer be appointed advisor to the Babcock Trust, with the proviso that this
appointment shall apply to the position of treasurer and investment officer, and
not just to the current incumbent. They noted that the Babcock Trust was established as a perpetual trust, so it was appropriate to designate a position rather
than an individual as an advisor.
525 S. Division, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved purchase of the property at 525 S. Division in Ann Arbor
at a price of $162,000, with parking revenues being used to fund the acquisition.
358 West Ashby Road, Lee Township, Midland County, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved acceptance of the offer of $225,000 for purchase of the
property at 358 West Ashby Road, Lee Township, Midland County, Michigan.


86




September Meeting, 1992


The proceeds will benefit the athletic department's Sports Service Building
(Glenn E. (Bo) Schembechler Hall).
Mary Markley and South Quad Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with projects for the renovation of Mary
Markley and South Quadrangle residence halls, as described in the Regents Communication.
Intercollegiate Athletics Athletic Administration Building Renovations
Regent Power moved approval of the project budget and awarding of the
contract for renovations to the athletic administration building to the low bidder,
MSI, of Detroit. Regent Smith seconded the motion, and following some discussion, it was adopted unanimously.
Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud Courtyard Sculpture
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a project to create a courtyard sculpture in connection
with the Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud Building, to be designed by Maya Lin, working with Johnson Johnson & Roy/inc.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects, as described in the Regents Communication: 1) Engineering 1-A ventilation improvements; 2) Alumni
Memorial Hall (Museum of Art) chiller replacement; 3) Medical Science I infrastructure and laboratory renovations; 4) UM-Dearborn Mardigian Library roof
replacement; and 5) UM Golf Course renovations.
Agreements between the University of Michigan and the Consortium
for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN) for the
Conduct of Certain Tasks
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents approved the University's entering into agreements with CIESIN, with Regents
Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Varner, and Waters voting in favor, and
Regent Smith abstaining. Because certain University employees (Douglas E. Van
Houweling and Peter M. Banks) also serve on the board of directors of CIESIN
and the president of CIESIN (Jack Lousma) is an adjunct professor of aerospace
engineering, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreements will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and
CIESIN, Inc.
2.  The contracts between CIESIN and the University will be in the form of a basic
ordering agreement or other types of agreements as appropriate to the


87




September Meeting, 1992


circumstances of the project. The current Basic Organizing Agreement provides
up to $2,500,000 over a fourteen month period. Negotiations for the 1993 Basic
Ordering Agreement will soon begin. CIESIN and the University will agree
upon Task Orders for specific aspets of the project within the budget limit for
the Basic Ordering Agreement. University compensation for Drs. Van Houweling or Banks may be included depending on their scientific involvement in particular Task Orders. (Neither is currently budgeted to receive any portion of
their salaries from these agreements.) Other University employees will participate in provision of technical services to CIESIN at CIESIN facilities and will
act in management positions for CIESIN for periods of time as necessary and
agreed in writing. The Basic Ordering Agreement is consistent with standard
University policies regarding publication and intellectual property.
3.   Neither Van Houweling nor Banks receive a salary or other pecuniary benefit
from CIESIN and neither is receiving any portion of his University salary from
the performance of this subcontract. Mr. Lousma receives a salary as president
of CIESIN. No other university employee has a personal pecuniary interest in
these agreements.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual
Property (Nicklas, Lee, Greenhut, and Monsur)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved an assignment agreement with John M. Nicklas, Jong
Lee, Saul Greenhut, and Joseph Monsur for the intellectual property "Laboratory Data Processor." Because the inventors of the intellectual property are also
University employees, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of Michigan and the
above-named employees/inventors.
2.   The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and approved by
the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated by reference in this
action request.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual
Property (Ensminger, Andrews, Knol)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved an assignment agreement with William D. Ensminger,
James C. Andrews, and James A Knol for the intellectual property "Intravascular Catheter Anchor for Vascular Access Catheters (Cath-Tach)." Because the inventors of the intellectual property are also University employees, this agreement
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of Michigan and the
above-named employees/inventors.
2.   The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and approved by
the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated by reference in this
action request.


88




September Meeting, 1992


Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
k-Space Associates, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a contract between the University of Michigan and
k-Space Associates, Inc. ("k-Space"). Because the owners of k-Space (Roy Clarke
and Darryl Bartlett) are both the developers of the technology to be commercialized by k-Space (the "Technology") and are University employees, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and k-Space, a corporation owned by Professor Roy Clarke and Mr. Darryl Bartlett.
2.   Terms of the contract include: a duration of 10 years or for the term of the last
to expire of any patents (if applicable), and consideration to the University
consisting of the payment of royalties, including modest minimum annual
requirements, on products utilizing the Technology, a share of sublicensing
revenues received by k-Space; and reimbursement of future University patent
filing and prosecution costs for the Technology, if applicable. Royalties will be
paid to the University at a rate of 10 percent for products sold by k-Space which
are covered by one or more patents, and 7 percent for products sold which incorporate University copyrights and know-how. k-Space will pay the University
35 percent of any sublicensing revenues k-Space receives. Minimum royalties
shall commence in 1993 at $1,000 and progress to $2,000 in 1994 and in each
subsequent year. For two years, k-Space shall be allowed to deduct, from royalties due the University, the cost of product liability insurance, which is being
obtained by k-Space and will be maintained at the University's request. The
University retains ownership of all Technology. The University retains the
right to use the Technology for research, teaching, and other educationallyrelated purposes. k-Space shall diligently pursue the commercial development
and exploitation of the Technology covered by the proposed license agreement.
There is no use of facilities or services of the University included in the contract
and no assignment of University employees for fulfillment of the contract.
3.   Professor Clarke and Mr. Bartlett's pecuniary interest in the contract arises
from their ownership of the entirety of k-Space. Professor Clarke and Mr. Bartlett's equity interest will be in lieu of participation in the sharing of royalties
received by the University, in accordance with standard University policy.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Improvement Path Systems (IPS)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the University's entering into a license agreement with
IPS. The owners of IPS, Steven J. Littig and Linda A Urich, formed IPS to commercialize a computerized discharge system      ("Program") they had invented.
Because Mr. Littig is also a University employee, this arrangement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the license agreement will be the University of Michigan and Improvement Path Systems, a corporation in which Steven J. Littig has part ownership.
2.   The terms of the contract include: Royalties to be paid to the University in the
amount of $250.00 for each copy of the Program licensed to a third party by


89




September Meeting, 1992


IPS or its affiliates and 25 percent of sublicensing revenues. Minimum annual
royalties of $200 in 1993 and $450 in each suceeding year are payable to the
University. The University retains the right to use internally and create derivative works from the Program.
3.  Steven Littig and Linda Urich's pecuniary interest in the contract arise from
their ownership interest in IPS. Their equity interest will be in lieu of any
potential participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University in
accordance with University policy
175th Anniversary of the University of Michigan
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the following resolution commemorating the 175th anniversary of the founding of the University of Michigan.
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commemorate the 175th
anniversary of the enactment of legislation by the Territorial Legislature
of Michigan, which established the "Catholepistemiad, or University, of
Michigania" in Detroit on August 26, 1817.
We celebrate the wisdom and vision of the founders of Michigan's
first educational system. Their belief in the principle of broad public
support for a unified educational system has led to a tradition of academic excellence at the University of Michigan.
As we begin the 175th year, it is worth noting that the institution
which exists in 1992 as one of the foremost in the nation officially began
in 1817 with only a president, a vice president, an organizational structure, and one small building. The population of the entire Michigan territory was only about 7,000 at that time, and today we have a student
enrollment of well over 50,000, along with more than 4,000 faculty and
18,000 staff at three campuses. From 42 acres of rural land in Ann Arbor where the first University classes were held, to total land holdings of
20,851 acres, the University of Michigan has grown, both in size and
stature.
Today we salute 175 years of the University of Michigan, and we
look forward to the future with great expectations for the next 175 years.
Public Comments
There were no speakers signed up to address the Regents this month.
Campaign for Michigan
President Duderstadt commented the events of the next 48 hours are very
important for the University of Michigan, as they would mark the kickoff of the
Campaign for Michigan. He expressed appreciation for the Regents continuing
involvement in these activities.


90




September Meeting, 1992


Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
Regent Baker requested that there be a discussion of the proposed Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities at the next Regents' meeting. President Duderstadt replied that it would be placed on the agenda
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on October 15 and 16, 1992. Regents' transportation, accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the months of July and
August, 1992 totalled $1,251.01.
Richard L.Kennedy Secret


91




OCTOBER MEETING, 1992


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 15, 1992
The Regents met at 10:13 AM. in the Michigan Rooms of the Harding Mott
University Center at the University of Michigan-Flint. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, and Smith.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice President
Womack were also present.
Executive Session Motion
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Nielsen, who made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e), 8(f), and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act,
as amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session at 10:00 AM. on October 15, 1992, in the Alumni Rooms,
Harding Mott University Center, for the purpose of consulting with our
attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation, reviewing the specific contents of applications for
employment where the candidates have requested that the applications
remain confidential, and considering material exempt from discussion
or disclosure by state and federal statute.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The
meeting participants left the room and continued meeting in closed session in the
Alumni Rooms. Regents Varner and Waters arrived shortly after the start of the
closed meeting, which was adjourned at 12:20 PM.
The Regents met again in open session at 1:45 PM. in the Michigan Rooms
of the Harding Mott University Center Building. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, Varner, and
Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Klein.
Community Dental Center
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and asked Vice President
Kennedy to present an information item about the Community Dental Center.
Vice President Kennedy noted that the legislature had recently passed a
resolution in honor of the Community Dental Center, which is a joint cooperative
effort between the University and the City of Ann Arbor to provide dental care
for low income residents of Washtenaw County. He introduced Dr. Robert
Bagramian, director of the Community Dental Center, who gave a brief
description of the program.


93




October Meeting, 1992


1993-94 State Budget Request, Ann Arbor Campus
President Duderstadt called on Provost Whitaker to present the 1993-94
State Budget Request. Provost Whitaker noted that the University's large employment base, leveraged by the state's contribution, is a direct benefit to the
state. Indirect benefits of the state's investment, which far exceed direct benefits,
include new knowledge, patient care, and education of citizens who go on to build
businesses in the state, which in turn provide employment benefits and income
to the state.
The 1993-94 State Budget Request requests a continuation of the current
level of support, plus additional support. He displayed a chart illustrating the decline in purchasing power of the state appropriation since 1980. In 1992-93, the
General Fund Budget was affected by a flat state appropriation, an expected loss
of $3.0 million in revenue from indirect cost recovery, an expected reduction of
$3.5 million in interest income, and concerns about possible further reductions in
the current fiscal year. The 1992-93 budget reflects the "shared sacrifice" approach taken to deal with these losses in revenue.
Continuing critical academic needs for 1993-94 include an adequate salary
program, continuing to increase faculty diversity and expand financial aid, improving the undergraduate educational experience, and increasing the internationalization of the curricula. Facilities-related needs include improving the
infrastructure, operating costs for new facilities, and costs for new facilities that
have been deferred from prior years.
There are three components of the 1993-94 state budget request: a 2.9 percent inflation component to maintain the purchasing power of the current budget ($7.9 million); a facilities-related component to cover operating costs ($5.8
million) and infrastructure maintenance improvement ($3.4 million); and an increase of 3.0 percent for salary and academic program improvement ($8.2 million), for a total requested increase of $25.3 million.
1993-94 State Budget Request, Dearborn Campus
Chancellor Klein reported that the UM-Dearborn request identifies four
critical needs: new faculty ($259,000); new space operating costs ($348,000); an
inflation component of 2.9 percent ($536,000); and service to the community to
expand outreach programs ($150,000), for a total increase of 8.0 percent
($1,293,000).
1993-94 State Budget Request, Flint Campus
Chancellor Jones stated that the Flint campus' priorities include an
inflationary increase program of 5 percent to improve faculty salaries and help
recruit new full-time faculty ($1,375,000); facilities operation and maintenance
costs ($292,000); additional support for minority recruitment and retention
($100,000); enhancements in information technology services ($200,000); academic program enhancement and new academic ventures ($250,000); library acquisitions ($100,000); and science building equipment maintenance ($50,000).
The total requested increase is $2,367,000.


94




October Meeting, 1992


Regent Nielsen complimented Chancellor Jones for his leadership on the
Flint campus and for encouraging programs that enhance the campus' relationships with the Flint community. He also noted that a number of Flint students
had contacted him asking that a residential housing community be considered
for the Flint campus. He suggested that this might be pursued as a joint venture
with other educational institutions in the Flint area.
Chancellor Jones responded that he would be supportive of the campus having the freedom to plan and investigate the feasibility of housing for the campus.
Regent Nielsen pointed out that because of the unique relationship that exists
between the city of Flint and the University, UM-Flint ought to be given the opportunity to explore this type of arrangement.
Regent Smith pointed out that the Dearborn campus also has no residential
facilities, noting that she had voted against converting housing to academic use.
Chancellor Jones observed that UM-Dearborn had the option of housing but had
chosen not to continue it. Regent Smith said she supports Regent Nielsen's suggestion.
President Duderstadt agreed that this idea should be explored. Regent Baker pointed out that there were a number of reasons for the original decision not
to incorporate residential facilities into the Flint campus. Chancellor Jones stated
that he would not support the campus losing its nonresidential emphasis, but
that didn't mean that there should be no housing. Many urban commuter campuses have housing, but it is a matter of emphasis.
President Duderstadt observed that the 1993-94 State Budget Requests recognize the very serious financial pressures on the state of Michigan. He pointed
out that state support had deteriorated markedly over the past five years and
that the state's colleges and universities had done an excellent job of planning in
a conservative, prudent fashion while protecting the quality of their programs.
Regent Power stated that it is now being accepted among the state's leaders
that the reason that universities have found it necessary to raise tuition and find
other funding sources is because a public policy decision is being made not to invest in the future of our people. The issue of whether the country is going to invest in this area needs to be openly debated, and the quality of its universities
will depend on the public policy consequences of that discussion.
Regent Nielsen pointed to UM-Flint's joint venture with Hurley Hospital as
an example of the type of resource sharing that will have to be undertaken by
other institutions in the state. He reported that a board member at Eastern
Michigan University had expressed an interest to him in a joint arrangement,
and said that as a leader in higher education, the University of Michigan should
take the initiative to explore such opportunities with other institutions in an effort to reduce costs.
In response to Regent Power's comments, Regent McFee observed that the
issue is not whether we should invest in education, but what kind of investment
should be made in terms of the output that is desired from that investment. She


95




October Meeting, 1992


felt that the University of Michigan could be a leader in assuring that the outcomes achieved from the investments into the University are of value to students
and citizens.
Regent Baker moved approval of the 1993-94 State Budget Requests for all
three campuses. Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Ernst & Young Management Report and Responses
Vice President Womack introduced Mr. Robert Emde of Ernst & Young.
Mr. Emde introduced two colleagues: Harold Miller of Ernst & Young in Detroit
and George Johnson, managing partner of George Johnson and Company in Detroit. His firm provided staff assistance to Ernst & Young during the audit.
Mr. Emde reported that the third paragraph of the audit report expresses
the opinion that the University's financial statements present fairly its financial
position, results of operations, changes, and fund balances for the year, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. He noted that the accounting principles used in 1992 were consistent with those used in 1991. The opinion
of the audits of the financial statements of the separately reported University
units were unqualified, as well. Mr. Emde further stated that the review of the
internal control structure did not reveal any condition that Ernst & Young would
consider to be a material weakness in procedures or controls.
Mr. Emde noted that the University administration had concurred with
each of the suggestions in the management letter for further improvement and
strengthening of the University's procedures and controls, and that each of the
action steps planned in response to the suggestions is appropriate.
Regent Baker offered the auditors an opportunity to talk to the Regents in
private if they had any concerns. Regent Power noted that he had never seen a
management letter that is, by its lack of problems, so complimentary to the financial and administrative management of a large institution such as the University.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
voted unanimously to approve the minutes of the meeting of September 17, 1992.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations, and Non-Competitive
Purchases over $2,000. He called attention to the chart indicating the decline in
the rates of return for the University Investment Pool and noted that attention is
being paid to ways of enhancing those returns, while still providing for the kind
of liquidity and security that the pool requires. He then responded to questions
from the Regents about several of the reports.


96




October Meeting, 1992


Vice President Kelly submitted reports of Projects Established-Research
and Other Activities and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects.
Following some discussion, Regent Smith moved to receive the reports. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Cosovich submitted reports of gifts received for the month of
September 1992. The Regents received the following gifts, with thanks, and in
accord with their terms and conditions:
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts -.. 151,961
American Federation for Clinical Research Foundation, Thorofare, New Jersey
for arthritis research in the Medical School........................60,000
American Foundation for AIDS Research, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................. ---  19,500
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Pharmacy -.....           56,083
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School.........20,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fellowship in the College of Engineering....-16,025
Anonymous Donor
for student assistance in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....12,000
Anonymous Donor
for the College of Pharmacy _.....99,288
Rudi Ansbacher, Ann Arbor
for the George W. Morley Fellowship in the Medical School _..5,000
Aplastic Anemia Foundation of America, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School __.6,250
C. Michael Armstrong, Manhattan Beach, California
for the Engineering Quality Initiatives Fund, College of Engineering -..8,400
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts -- 13,833
Betz Foundry, Inc., Grand Rapids
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics    0              10,000
Andrew G. Bliner Trust
for arthritis research in the Medical School                           -    110,000
Boehringer Mannheim Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.56,000
David A. Brandon Foundation, Northville
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics     -......20,000
Evelyn K. Burke Estate
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration  6- 8,.   158,113
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
130 shares of General Electric Company common stock for unrestricted
support of the Law School                         ~.10,026
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Pharmacy                -~.15,000
Paul B. Campbell, Cleveland, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Schools of Law and Business Administration --..,000
Carello Lighting, Staffordshire, England
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute      -   10,000
Avi Chai, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work ~_~..15,000
Chemical Bank, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration...      56,000
Ciby-Geigy Corporation, Summit, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy _-......10,000


97




October Meeting, 1992


Carl P. Clare, Chicago, Illinois
4,000 shares of Masco Corporation common stock for support in the College of
Engineering                                                                  1.... 1 05,500
Clorox Company, Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration.........6,500
Avern L. and Joyce Cohn Fund of the Jewish Welfare Federation, Detroit
for the Irwin I. and Avern Cohn Dean's Discretionary Endowment, Law School...-. 100,000
Irwin and Sadie Cohn Fund of the Jewish Welfare Federation, Detroit
for the Irwin I. and Avern Cohn Dean's Discretionary Endowment, Law School -6...65,000
David S. Cooper, Bloomfield Hills
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics...13,00
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.............38,893
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship.................................,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...............................................20,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for the Delta Dental Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry........................8,000
James and Anne Duderstadt, Ann Arbor
for the Center for the Education of Women.............................10,000
Eileen M. Ebin, Longboat Key, Florida
for the William E. Zimmie Visiting Professorship, College of Engineering........27,000
William J. Fidler, Jr., Memphis, Tennessee
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School.................................................. 6.5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering and for the University Musical Society...........30,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for fellowships in the College of Engineering -........._.-............15,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for the GTE Foundation Fellowship and other support in the School of Business
Administration and the Minority Program and Fellowships, College of Engineering ..40,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for fellowships in the College of Engineering..............27,750
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for the General Motors Foundation-Green Program in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment and the University of Michigan-Flint Library Fund --..90,000
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School                   -... 10,000
William A. Gracie, Jr., Ann Arbor
100 shares of CNA Financial Corporation common stock for the Sports Service
Building in the Department of Athletics and for the William A. Gracie, Jr., Donor
Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School __..8,788
G. Robert Greenberg, Ann Arbor
for biological chemistry support in the Medical School....8,00 0
Claribel B. Halstead, Ann Arbor
for the William and Claribel Baird Halstead Scholarship, School of Music.._. 6.5,000
Mrs. J. S. Hunter, Princeton, New Jersey
100 shares of Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company common
stock for the School of Music...................    5,756
Jean S. Johns Revocable Living Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Alvin Johnson Stewart, M.D., Fellowship in the Medical School __.....20,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, New Brunswick, NJ
for employee matching gifts......7.7,470
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health.......550,677
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for the KPMG Fellowship in the School of Business Administration  6..        25,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Education........54,340
George W. Keros, Detroit
160 shares of Union Pacific Corporation common stock for support of the
College of Engineering __-           a_.8,540
James William Kideney Trust
for the James William Kideney Fund, College of Architecture and Urban Planning..........50,000
Edward S. Klotz, Hollywood, Florida
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and Dept. of Athletics....5,000


98




October Meeting, 1992


Lacks Industries, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................10,000
Lear Seating Corporation, Southfield
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering..........20,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         _    18,630
Liberace Foundation for the Performing Arts, Las Vegas, Nevada
for the School of Music _.10,000
Life and Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School _........   12,500
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.................8,750
Joseph E. Lunghamer, Bloomfield Hills
300 shares of Entergy Corporation common stock for golf course restoration in
the Department of Athletics......................................9,113
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Schools of Business Administration and
Medicine and the Colleges of Architecture and Urban Planning, Engineering, and
Literature, Science, and the Arts..42,500
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........25,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for the Associates Program and Student Aid, School of Business Administration.................. 20,000
Michigan Health Care Education and Research Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Institute of Gerontology......................................................25,361
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....40,500
Nippon Life Insurance Company, New York, New York
for the Nippon Life Professorship in the Law School............................200,000
Casper Y. Offutt, Jr., Atherton, California
four shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock for the Helen Olson
Brower Memorial Fellowship in Environmental Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts....... 36,650
Thomas F. Olin, Hickory Corners
for the Sumner and Laura Foster Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....5,000
Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School  _....-. ---..5,000
Ralph M. Parsons Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for civil and environmental support in the College of Engineering..........50,000
Rose Pascoe Trust
for the Herman Fishman Memorial Loan Fund.. ----.-.-....      5,000
Pryor Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Pryor Foundation Fund in the School of Business Administration._.     8,986
William Putich, Brecksville, Ohio
2,529 shares of Telefons de Mexico, S. A. common stock for the Sports Service
Building in the Department of Athletics...5,611
P. Anthony Ridder, Miami, Florida
325 shares of Knight-Ridder, Inc., common stock for the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics._... 19,764
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 14,000
Leonard Rozenzweig, Grand Rapids
11 shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock for the Leonard and Dora
Rosenzweig Donor Pooled Income Fund for ultimate benefit of the Medical School....-104,500
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...          18,500
St. Nativity of the Virgin Mary Macedonian Orthodox Church, Warren
for Slavic Dept Faculty Research, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  - 10,000
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for academic support in the Medical School n.46,251
Irvin J. Sattinger, Ann Arbor
260 shares of Kimberly-Clark Corporation common stock for the College of
Engineering, the Schools of Medicine and Information and Library Studies, and
for the Campaign for Michigan  _ .....14,869
Katherine Collier Schotten, Ann Arbor
for academic support in the School of Music -.5,500


99




October Meeting, 1992


John B. Schwemm, Downers Grove, Illinois
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School...........0....,000
Siemens Corporate Research, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering _...................10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for mathematics and biology research, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......69,000
Rollin M. Smith Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,525
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for anthropology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts __........ 7,600
Helmut Stern Foundation, Ann Arbor
for Humanities Institute support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........20,000
Alice A. Stoddard Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School......................................... 9,614
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.AS.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern Masonic
Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite funds in the Medical School__..................................73,669
Edward Surovell Company, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society _.....    -.... 6,000
E. Jack Sweazey, Chandler, Arizona
339 shares of various communications companies common stocks for civil and
environmental scholarships in the College of Engineering _....................................16,101
Bruce E. Thai, Detroit
for the American Culture Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......,000
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration............   10,000
Anne A. Thompson, Bloomfield Hills
95 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock for the Sports Service Building in
the Department of Athletics......6,139
Trenton Firefighters Local 2701, Trenton
for burn research and education in the Medical School..........................................13,113
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration...................... 7,00
United Dairy, Inc., Martins Ferry, Ohio
for the Department of Athletics.....................,000
United States Steel Foundation, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts                       _.10,270
University of Michigan Club of Washington, D.C.
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, D.C., Scholarship Fund in
the Alumni Association..12,500
John J. Voorhees, Ann Arbor
for the Moment UM Campaign-Dermatology Fund in the Medical School....,000
Ruth O. Waldron Estate
for the Ruth 0. Waldron Fund in the Clements Library.....28,802
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for the Bennett and Alice Cohen Fund in the Medical School.....10,000
Peter M. Wege, East Grand Rapids
for the Peter Martin Wege, Sr., Memorial Scholarship, Department of Athletics...10,000
Eugene G. Weinaug Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan _.....0,000
Harley J. Westfall, Adrian
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics ____7,500
Ruthmary S. Westfall Trust, Adrian
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics,..7,500
Margaret V. Whelan Estate
for student aid in the Medical School and for the Student Nurses Activity Fund
in the School of Nursing _     -80,000
Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Ruth and Gilbert Whitaker Doctoral Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration -.7_...__..7,000
Roy H. Ziegler, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Quaker Oats Company and 100 shares of Eaton Corporation
common stock for the Roy and Helen Ziegler Scholarship, College of Engineering..2.20,206


100




October Meeting, 1992


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Lee Hickman, Birmingham
a Sohmer studio grand piano for the North Campus Commons Lounge
Logan W. Hovis, Vienna, West Virgini
six Civil War letters written in 1862 by Adam Carmany, William Murray, and William
Carmany (on the Battle of Fredericksburg) for the Clements Library
Virginia Mikola, Ann Arbor
three Linden trees, approximately 25 feet tall, for the Department of Landscape Architecture
Peter J. Thompson, Vancouver, British Columbia
a four-piece Georgian silver tea and coffee service (London, 1824 & 1825) and a late 19th
Century Sheffield silver plated tea tray for the Frances Willson Thompson Library at the
University of Michigan-Flint
Clarence Wolf, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Thomas Say's Glossary to Say's Entomology (1825) and Description of New Species of North
American Insects (1829-1833) for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following donors:
Donna R. Bell, Ypsilanti                Valerie D. Meyer, Ann Arbor
Marjorie Howell Burnell, Ann Arbor      Newport/Klinger, Fountain Valley, CA
Genentech, Inc., So. San Francisco, CA  Anne Orrell, Cardinal, VA
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor                Jeanne Stephenson, Cockeysville, MD
John D. Marquardt, Grand Blanc          Nan Wells, Bay City
Sheldon Marston, Birmingham
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Constance E. Cook, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Education, one-year term, September 1, 1992
Renny T. Franceschi, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dentistry, five-year term, November 15, 1992
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
John Brownfain, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, UM-Dearborn, reappointed to active status,
fall term 1992
Grace Kachaturoff, Professor Emeritus of Education, UM-Dearborn, reappointed to active status,
seven-month term, September 1, 1992
Janice B. Lindberg, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Student
Affairs, School of Nursing, reappointed Associate Dean for Student Affairs, School of
Nursing, two-year and seven-month term, November 1, 1992
Jonathan D. Lowe, Assistant Dean for Law School Relations, reappointed Assistant Dean for
Law School Relations, one-year term, December 1, 1992


101




October Meeting, 1992


William M. Mikkelsen, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status,
one-year term, July 1, 1992
Warren G. Palmer, Associate Professor Emeritus of Education and Associate Professor Emeritus
of Library Science, reappointed to active status, winter term 1993
Joseph E. Sullivan, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, reappointed to active status, academic year, September 1, 1992
David L. Wolfe, Associate Professor Emeritus of Spanish, reappointed to active status,
fall term 1992
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Izzeddin S. Habib, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Interim Chair,
Department of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Interim Chair,
Department of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, six-month term, July 1, 1992
Murray H. Miller, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, three-month term, September 1, 1992
Marshal Shlafer, Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for
Student Programs, Medical School, October 15, 1992
The following committee appointments were approved:
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Daniel G. Greene, two-year term ending July 31,1994, vice Suzzane F. Grefsheim, resigned
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Martha S. Feldman, three-year term ending August 31, 1995, vice Janet A Weiss, conflict in fall
schedule
Karla T. Taylor, three-year term ending August 31, 1995, vice June M. Howard, on leave
UM-Dearborn Colege of Arts. Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Orin G. Gelderloos, three-month term ending January 31, 1993, substitute for M. Kazem
Mostafapour, during promotion and tenure deliberations
Roger C. Loeb, three-month term ending January 31, 1993, substitute for Robert W. Hymes,
during promotion and tenure deliberations
Gerald F. Moran, three-month term ending January 31, 1993, substitute for Kathleen V. Wider,
during promotion and tenure deliberations
UM-Dearborn School of Eduction Executive Committee
Joseph A Cepuran, three-year term ending August 31, 1995, vice Richard H. Moyer, term expired
School of Information and Library Studies. The Regents approved the
additional title for Robert M. Warner of dean emeritus of the School of Information and Library Studies, effective October 1, 1992.
Richard C. Schneider Professorship in Neurosurgery. The Regents
approved the establishment of the Richard C. Schneider Professorship in Neurosurgery.
Jack D. Sparks - Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of
Business Administration. The Regents approved the appointment of Joel B.
Slemrod as the Jack D. Sparks - Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of
Business Administration for a two-year term, effective November 1, 1992.


102




October Meeting, 1992


James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy. The Regents
approved the appointment of Crispin J. G. Wright as the James B. and Grace J.
Nelson Professor of Philosophy, effective September 1, 1992.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
School of Art
John N. Bowers, M.FA, Assistant Professor of Art
School of Business Administration
Kirti S. Celly, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of International Business and Marketing
Kannan Sethuraman, AM., Lecturer in Operations Management
School of Dentistry
Tamara J. Bauer, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1992
Charles E. Duncan, D.D.S., M.S.D., Lecturer in Dentistry
John P. Fox, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Linda M. Gray, Lecturer in Dentistry
Mark R. Hanselman, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Gregory A Hummon, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Robin A Jones, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Debra K Kennedy, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Aida Peterson, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Michael J. Sharp, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Mary J. Showers, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, August 24, 1992
Domenica G. Sweier, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, August 24, 1992
Russell S. Taichman, D.M.Sc., Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Michael E. Vetowich, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Mary H. G. Walton, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Michael S. Wojcik, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
College of Engineering
Ann R. Ford-Holevinski, M.S., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Theodore B. Norris, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Elke A Rundensteiner, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Division of Kinesiolog
Susan H. C. Brown, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology
Collee of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Bazel E. Allen, MA, Lecturer II in English
Soheila Amirsoleimani, MA, Lecturer II in Persian Studies
I. Elisabet Andersson, MA, Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Donald G. Babbitt, Ph.D., Lecturer in Mathematics, August 1, 1992
Maria E. Baranov, Trausfer, Lecturer I in Spanish
Galina Barinova, Diploma, Lecturer I in Slavic Languages and Literatures
Lydia Belateche, MA, Lecturer II in French
Duane T. Birnbaum, Ph.D., Lecturer in Chemistry
David J. Bishop, BA, Lecturer II in Communication
Hezi Brosh, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Hebrew Language
Bergit E. Brueckner, MA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, August 17, 1992
James H. Buckley, Ph.D., Lecturer in Communication
Mary L. Butcher, BA, Lecturer II in Communication


103




October Meeting, 1992


Dominique M. Butler-Borruat, Demi-Licence, Lecturer I in French
Karis Crawford, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Donald B. Demetriades, BA, Lecturer I in Philosophy
Alyce B. Depree, MA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Theresa L. Deussen, MA, Lecturer I in Sociology
John A Drennan, B. A, Lecturer I in Philosophy
Macarena S. Espinosa, Licenciada, Lecturer II in Spanish
Christine A Beer Feak, M.S., Lecturer II in English
Mark S. Freyberg, MA, Lecturer II in Sociology, January 1, 1993
Maria B. Garcia, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Methods of Teaching, July 1, 1992
Estela A Gavosto, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Beth Genne, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Art History
Daniel M. Goldberg, BA, Lecturer I in Philosophy
Carina R. Graf, B.S., Lecturer II in Spanish
Jon C. Hall, B.S., Lecturer II in Communication
Maria M. Heaton, BA, Lecturer II in Spanish
James D. Herbsleb, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Kirsten F. Herold, BA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Craig P. Howe, M.SArch., Lecturer II in American Culture Program
Andrea G. Hunter, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies
Katherine M. Hurbis-Cherrier, BA, Lecturer II in Communication
Michael J. Hurbis-Cherrier, M.FA, Lecturer II in Communication
Brenda P. Imber, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English
Christina Jose-Kampfner, PhD., Lecturer II in Women's Studies and Lecturer II
in Latino Studies
Tadeusz Jozefiak, Ph.D., Lecturer in Mathematics, August 1, 1992
Barbara I. Kalisewicz, BA, Lecturer II in Communication
Patricia M. Knezek, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Astronomy
Maria T. Koreck, MA, Lecturer I in Women's Studies
Pekka J. Koskela, Doctorate, Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Nancy A Kotzian, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Communication
William D. Kueser, BA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Ludmila Longan, MA, Lecturer I in Slavic Linguistics
Joan H. Lowenstein, J.D., Lecturer II in Communication
Eyal Markman, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Irving N. McCue, Lecturer II in American Culture Program
Allison B. Melson, MA, Lecturer I in French
Katherine Mendeloff, M.FA, Lecturer II in Drama
Brownson Murray, L.L.B., Lecturer II in Communication, January 1, 1993
Thi N. Nguyen, M.BA, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
Lisa T. Nielsen, M.BA, Lecturer II in Communication, January 1, 1993
Bradley N. Opdyke, PhD., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences
Megan L. Orr, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Gilbert T. Oswald II., MA, Lecturer II in Communication
Erica K. Paslick, MA, Lecturer II in German
Tricia A Perkins, M.S., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Jefferson M. Peters, MA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Sophie-Anne Peyronnet, Licence, Lecturer II in French
Karen J. Primorac, MA, Lecturer II in Spanish
Liliana V. Puppi-Redfern, M.S., Lecturer I in Spanish
Dhananjay B. Puranik, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Marina Raffaelli, Maitrise, Lecturer II in French
Robert W. Rayher, MAH., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies
Douglas W. Rideout, B.S., Lecturer II in Communication
John Rietz, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Gull-Mj L. Roberts, PhD., Lecturer II in Chemistry
Claudia F. Rogers, M.FA, Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Aleksandra L. Rozentals, MA, Lecturer I in French
Adelheid Rundholz-Weihe, MA, Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Peter 0. Sandusky, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
Amy J. Schulz, M.S.W., Lecturer II in Sociology
William F. Shea, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English
Yoko I. Shook, MA, Lecturer II in Japanese


104




October Meeting, 1992


Mohammad T. Siddiqi, MA, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
Gina M. Soter, MA, Lecturer I in Classical Studies
Ema Steffanova, B.S., Lecturer I in Macedonian Language and Literature
Robin G. Stuart, D.Phil., Assistant Professor of Physics
Margaretha M. Sudarsih, Doctoranda, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures
LeeAnn M. Sutherland, MAT., Lecturer II in English
Alison M. Swan, M.FA, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Abdolreza Tahvildar-Zadeh, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
G. Keith Taylor, MA, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Rodolfo H. Torres, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Jane M. Van Bolt, MA, Lecturer I in Spanish
Mavirdia Velez, MA, Lecturer II in American Culture Program
Enju Wang, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry
John T. Wark, Lecturer II in Communication, January 1, 1993
Sister Mary L. Warner, AD., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature
Pamela Webster, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, January 1, 1993
Jennifer S. Wong, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology
Mary N. Zwiep, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Medical School
Amy M. Arnett, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 15,1992
Jordan K. Cohen, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, August 1, 1992
Gregory W. Dalack, M.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, July 1, 1992
Jennifer L. Holt, M.D., Clinical Lecturer II in Radiation Oncology, September 14,1992
Yvonne Kuczynski, J.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, August 17, 1992
Phillip A Scott, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, September 15, 1992
M. Catherine Spires, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
August 1, 1992
David J. Treloar, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 10, 1992
School of Nursing
Laurie G. Fasbinder, M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Karen E. Hall, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Barbara P. Houghton, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Deborah M. Price, M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Lisa J. Scheiman, M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Betty L. Tecco, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
School of Social Work
Susan C. McDonough, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Hugh E. Huntley, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering
Yi Zhang, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Dickran Toumajan, Lecturer I in Slavic Languages and Literatures, appointment cancelled
(previously reported as effective September 1, 1992)
UM-Dearborn Colege of Arts. Sciences. and Letters
Marie P. Waung, Assistant Professor of Psychology (previously reported as Lecturer)
Jing Zhao, Assistant Professor of Mathematics (previously reported as Lecturer)


105




October Meeting, 1992


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Donna M. Salzer, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Architecture
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Margery J. Adelson, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor I in Psychology
Hilarie Faberman, from Assistant Professor of History of Art and Curator of Western Art to
Lecturer II in History of Art
Robert C. Gunn, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor I in Psychology
Jerome Miller, from Lecturer II to Adjunct Assistant Professor of Psychology
Medical School
Dennis Crowley, from Clinical Associate Professor II to Clinical Professor II of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases
Gad B. Kletter, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 1, 1992
Michael S. Klinkman, from Lecturer in Family Practice, Medical School, and Lecturer in Health
Services Management and Policy, School of Public Health, to Assistant Professor of Family
Practice, Medical School, and Lecturer in Health Services Management and Policy, School
of Public Health, December 1, 1991
Elaine S. Pomeranz, from Clinical Instructor II to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases
Lynne S. Robins, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health
Professions Education
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Anatole Senkevitch, Jr., Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, and Associate Professor of History of Art, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Collee of Engineering
Spilios D. Fassois, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Yuri Gurevich, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 1992
Gretar Tryggvason, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
School of Information and Library Studies
Karen M. Drabenstott, Associate Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Carl W. Akerlof, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-May 31,
1993
Keletso E. Atkins, Assistant Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Lawrence S. Bartell, Philip J. Elving Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1993
John Bound, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
L. Ross Chambers, Marvin Felheim Distinguished University Professor of French and
Comparative Literature, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993


106




October Meeting, 1992


Madhav Deshpande, Professor of Sanskrit, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Patricia 0. Ezekiel, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, extended sick leave,
September 22-December 31, 1992
Juha Heinonen, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31,1993
John Jonides, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1,1992 -May 31, 1993
Gordon L. Kane, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,1993
Lawrence L. Lohr, Jr., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1,
1992-May 31, 1993
Sabine G. MacCormack, Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor
of Classical Studies, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1993
Marlon B. Ross, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Patrice M. Some, Assistant Professor of French, leave without salary, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
Thelma K. Thomas, Assistant Curator, Kelsey Art Museum of Archeaology, and Assistant
Professor of Art History, duty off campus, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Elliot S. Valenstein, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -April 30, 1993
Rafia M. Zafar, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, extended sick leave,
September 22-October 16,1992
Law School
Whitmore Gray, Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1993
Thomas A Green, John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
and Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, September 1-December 31, 1992, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,
1993
Richard O. Lempert, Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, and
Professor of Sociology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Donald H. Regan, William W. Bishop Jr. Collegiate Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
and Professor of Philosophy, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
James B. White, L. Hart Wright Collegiate Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, and
Professor of English, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Medical School
Dale K. Dedrick, Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
extended sick leave, July 22-December 31,1992
Stephen G. Emerson, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure and Associate
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, duty off campus,
July 1, 1992-June 30, 1993
David J. Fink, Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, October 15, 1992 -January 15, 1993, and March 15-June 15, 1993
William F. Howatt, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1-September 30, 1992
Robert C. Kelsch, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1-September 30, 1992
Margaret R. Punch, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, extended sick leave, August 18 -October 25, 1992
Amnon Rosenthal, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-November 30, 1992, and February 1-April 30, 1993
Thomas L. Schwenk, Associate Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, Chair, Department of
Family Practice, and Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education, without tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1993
Mary C. Spires, Clinical Instructor II in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, personal leave,
July 1-July 31, 1992


107




October Meeting, 1992


School of Nursine
Mary M. Hogan, Lecturer in Nursing, educational leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
School of Public Health
Neal M. Krause, Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Steven P. Levine, Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
UM-Darborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Margret HL Hoft, Professor of Mathematics and Statics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30, 1993
UM-Dearborn School of Enineering
Robert E. Little, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31,1992
Tsung Yen Na, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Malayappan Shridhar, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Onur Ulgen, Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1,1992-April 30,1993
UM Dearborn School of Management
A R. Krachenberg, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1992-April 30, 1993
UM-Flint Collee of Arts and Sciences
Charles G. Apple, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Robert A Bix, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Judith J. Kollmann, Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Douglas E. Miller, Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, Associate Professor of German, with
tenure, and Chair, Department of Foreign Languages, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Mary E. Periard, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1,
1992-May 31, 1993
Paul K Peterson, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Sue A Peterson, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
R. Shantaram, Associate Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
Ronald E. Silverman, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1993
Eugene H. Studier, Professor of Biology, with tenure, and David M. French Professor, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Mary N. Yochum, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature Science, and the Arts
Mark Gersovitz, Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -May 31, 1993 (previously reported as September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993)
Laura E. Perez, Assistant Professor of Spanish, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993 (previously reported as leave without salary)


108




October Meeting, 1992


Ruth S. Scodel, Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
January 1-May 31, 1993 (previously reported as leave without salary)
David B. Solnit, Assistant Professor of Thai Language and Literature, scholarly activity leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992 (previously reported as leave without salary)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUC TONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
CoUege of Literature Science, and the Arts
Lyall H. Powers, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, December 31, 1992
Division of Kinesioloy
Glenn E. Schembechler, Assistant Professor of Sports Management and Communication,
August 31, 1992
Medical School
Daniel T. Barry, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, June 30, 1992
Thomas P. Beresford, Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, July 27, 1992
Gordon T. Goodman, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, August 31, 1992
Jerri A Jenista, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 31, 1992
Teresa G. Kelly, Lecturer in Radiology, August 31, 1992
Linda B. Ludwig, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 31,1992
Atul C. Pande, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, July 8, 1992
Stanley A Schwartz, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Microbiology, with
tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public
Health, August 31,1992
Mark Washnock, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 31, 1992
UM-Dearborn Colege of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
John F. Riordan, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
and Professor of Computer and Information Science, without tenure, School of
Engineering, June 30, 1992
UM-Flint Coleee of Arts and Sciences
Iraj Behbahani-Nejad, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, June 30, 1992
Retirement Memoirs
The Regents voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Harm Buning, professor of aerospace engineering, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1992, after an outstanding career as a teacher and educator.
Professor Buning received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in aerospace engineering from the University of Michigan in 1949 and 1951, respectively. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor of aerospace engineering
in 1956, and was promoted to associate professor in 1958 and professor in 1963.
The major part of Professor Buning's career was concerned with manned
space flight and related subjects. A leading expert in astrodynamics and spaecraft design, Professor Buning was selected by the Johnson Manned Spacecraft
Center to lecture the original groups of astronauts on orbital mechanics. He also
taught courses on flight mechanics at NASA in Houston. At the University of
Michigan, his courses on spacecraft design were an outstanding success and were
supported by NASA through the Universities Space Research Association. He


109




October Meeting, 1992


achieved a national reputation for his leadership of these design courses, and
numerous students benefited from this unique opportunity to be part of a major
spacecraft design effort.
In addition to his close interactions with NASA, Professor Buning has been
involved in numerous professional activities. He was active in the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, and was a member of many acreditation committees for aerospace engineering curricula for departments throughout
the country. In the Department of Aerospace Engineering, Professor Buning was
the undergraduate program advisor and served as associate chair of the department from 1966 until his retirement. He was recognized by the University as an
outstanding teacher by the award of a Thurnau Professorship in 1988.
Professor Buning's contributions to the department's educational programs
have been exceptional. He has provided outstanding educational leadership and
has always been willing to share his time and effort on behalf of his faculty colleagues and his students. His long-term commitment to the Department of Aerospace Engineering is greatly appreciated.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Harm Buning Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering.
Lyall H. Powers, professor of English language and literature, will retire
from active faculty status on December 31, 1992.
A native of Canada, Professor Powers received his B.S. and M.S. degrees
from the University of Manitoba in 1948 and 1951, respectively, and his Ph.D.
degree from Indiana University in 1955. After teaching at the University of Wisconsin, he came to the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1958;
he was promoted to associate professor in 1963 and professor in 1968. He has
held visiting professorships and exchange professorships at several universities.
He has also served as vice-chair and then chair of the language and literature section, Michigan Academy of Science, Arts, and Letters Convention. His honors include a Guggenheim Fellowship and election as a fellow of the Royal Society of
Arts.
Professor Powers has published numerous studies of twentieth century fiction, particularly the work of Henry James and William Faulkner. His many essays range widely from the eighteenth century work of Henry Fielding to that of
Nathaniel Hawthorne and Mark Twain in the nineteenth century and Thornton
Wilder and James Baldwin in the present century. His scholarly work includes a
bibliography of American periodicals as well as editions of the notebooks and letters of James and of Edith Wharton. The richness of the resources his work has
made available in James studies constitutes a major achievement which will continue to benefit all scholars working on the enormous body of literature left by
this master artist. His current work continues to bear fruit in further editions
and studies of the fiction of James, Wilder, and the Canadian novelist, Margaret
Laurence.
Many graduate students studying the genre of fiction have benefited from
Professor Powers' conscientious and genial guidance on honors essays, masters'
theses, and doctoral dissertations. Combining erudition and wit, he has been a
popular lecturer in many of the department's most successful courses. He has


110




October Meeting, 1992


also been a loyal and collegial academic citizen, serving on many administrative
and consultative bodies on the departmental, college, and University levels.
The Regents now honor this distinguished scholar, teacher, and educator by
naming Lyall H. Powers Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature.
John F. Riordan, professor of mathematics in the College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters and professor of computer and information science in the
School of Engineering, retired from active faculty status at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn on June 30, 1992.
Professor Riordan received his B.S. degree from the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology in 1948 and his M.S. degree from the University of Michigan in
1949. From 1951-53, he served as a mathematician with the U.S. Air Force, after
which he returned to the University in various research capacities. From
1961-66, Professor Riordan served on the staffs of the Institute of Science and
Technology (IST) and the UM Computing Center. He joined the faculty of the
UM-Dearborn as an associate professor of industrial engineering in 1968 and in
1969 received a joint appointment as associate professor of  mathematics. He was
granted tenure in 1970, and joined the mathematics department full time in
1971. He was promoted to professor of mathematics and statistics in the College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters in 1975 and was awarded the additional title of professor of computer and information science in the Division of Interdisciplinary
Studies in 1985.
Although trained as a mathematician, Professor Riordan's interests
spanned engineering, mathematics, and computer science. He published in the
area of spectral filters, programming methods, and Fourier transforms. He did
early work in analogue calculations while at IST and, during the years 1959-77,
was a lecturer and/or chair of the University of Michigan Engineering Summer
conferences. He also served as a consultant to the American Mathematical Society during much of his academic career.
As a teacher, Professor Riordan was especially adept at dealing with students on a one-to-one basis. He was responsible for introducing several courses
into the     mathematics curriculum, was one of the early architects of the computer
science program, and served for a number of years as chair of the Computers and
Computational Mathematics Committee. In 1990, his efforts on behalf of the
computer and information science program were recognized by a nomination for
a "Best in Class" award at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming John F. Riordan Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Professor
Emeritus of Computer and Information Science.
Memorial Statements
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.


111




October Meeting, 1992


University of Michigan Financial Report for the Year Ended June 30,
1992
Vice President Womack submitted the financial report for the University of
Michigan for the year ended June 30, 1992, and responded to questions from the
Regents.
Asset-Backed and Mortgage-Backed Security Investments
Regent Varner moved, and Regent McFee seconded, that the University's
fixed-income investment guidelines for "Other Invested Funds" be amended as
follows (amendments underlined):
The following types of fixed income investments are eligible for
purchase In any fund'
U.S. dollar or Eurodollar notes, debentures, bonds, assetbacked securities. mortgage-backed securities, or floating-rate
instruments rated "A" or better by Standard & Poor's corporation or Moody's Investors Service.
Following some discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Common Fund Inventories
Vice President Womack submitted the June 30, 1992, inventories of the
Common Fund pooled funds in which the University Endowment Fund participates, and responded to questions from Regent Baker about the return compared
to that of Standard & Poors.
South Campus Master Plan
Vice President Womack introduced Mr. Richard Rigterink, of Johnson &
Roy/inc to present the South Campus master plan. Mr. Rigterink used maps and
slides to illustrate the major points of the master plan and to describe the
features of each of the four development zones. Following some discussion,
Regent Power moved approval of the master plan for the South Campus of the
University of Michigan. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
UM-Flint Campus 1991-92 Master Plan Update
Vice President Womack again called on Mr. Rigterink to present the master
plan update for the Flint campus. The Regents had requested that the plan be
updated as a result of the acquisition of the Water Street Pavilion and the relocation of the Frances Willson Thompson Library.
Mr. Rigterink used maps and slides to illustrate the features of the updated
master plan. He pointed out that the plan includes four areas of special interest
to the Flint campus. These are areas that are currently not owned by the University but are so close in proximity to the University that careful attention needs to


112




October Meeting, 1992


be paid to their future use. He identified these areas as the State Office Building
and parking deck, the former AutoWorld theme park, the United Way site, and
the municipal parking lot immediately adjacent to the University Pavilion.
Regent Nielsen noted that the master plan does not contain any references
to residential housing. He said about two years ago a scheme for residential housing had been envisioned which could be utilized not only by UM-Flint but by all
of the educational institutions in the Flint area He requested that the plan be revised to address housing issues.
Mr. Rigterink reported that housing had been discussed in relation to the
master plan but that it was his understanding it did not play a part in the University's current educational mission. However, planners are appreciative of the
fact that there appears to be a need for housing, which currently is being filled by
private entrepreneurs.
Regent Nielsen again urged that the plan be reworked to incorporate residential housing. Mr. Rigterink suggested that a possible use for the AutoWorld
site could be for housing.
In the discussion following Mr. Rigterink's presentation, Regent Power observed that more work needs to be done to incorporate the riverfront as a major
feature of the campus. Regent Power also stated that access to the campus and
parking areas needs to be improved from that which currently exists, especially
from the south and west. Mr. Rigterink agreed with both of these points and described how planners are addressing these concerns.
Regent Nielsen moved that approval of the master plan update be postponed until the residential housing issue is addressed. Regent Smith seconded
the motion. In the discussion of this motion, Regent Power cautioned against the
Board's dictating a use for a specific activity, such as housing, for which neither a
demonstrated need nor demonstrated purpose exists on campus. Regent Nielsen
responded that the community has expressed a desire for housing to service the
educational corridor and he believes the plan should address the interests of the
community.
Regent McFee suggested that the issue could be addressed in a section of the
plan identified as recommendations for future consideration. Mr. Rigterink
stated that there is a section in the technical report that deals with such issues
and that housing could be added to that section.
Regent Baker observed that the master plan is a flexible document that
allows for changing circumstances as they arise, and cited the siting of the library
as an example. He advised rejecting the motion for this reason, noting that
Chancellor Jones has made a commitment to review the issue of residential
housing. Regent Brown agreed, noting that the plan has been amended in the
past and can be amended in the future. Adoption of the plan as it currently exists
does not preclude addressing the issue of housing in the fiture.
Regent Nielsen responded that the Regents would be sending a message to
the Flint community if a plan is approved that has no reference to the issue of


113




October Meeting, 1992


housing whatsoever, given that they have indicated they would like to have it addressed
Regent Power made a substitute motion to adopt the master plan as presented and invite JJR to consider the need for residential housing and Chancellor
Jones to consult with the Flint community as to the way the residential housing
needs of the community may be adapted into the evolving master plan. Regent
Brown seconded the motion.
At the suggestion of Regent Nielsen, Regent Power's substitute motion was
amended to state that the results of the housing needs study be reported back to
the Regents in six months time. Regent Power supported the amendment.
There being no further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was
approved unanimously.
Horace H. Rackham Educational Memorial Building in Detroit
Vice President Womack reported that Wayne State University (WSU) had
approached the University of Michigan about the possibility of the Rackham
Building in Detroit being used as a site for a school they were seeking to establish. The University would like to lease all or a part of the building to WSU in
consideration of their agreement both to assume the responsibilities concerning
the educational activities taking place and to make the necessary renovations in
this leased space in the Rackham Building. It is also expected that the Engineering Society of Detroit would enter into an agreement with Wayne State University. The Regents are being asked to approve the lease of all or a large part of the
University's portion of the space in the Rackham Building, and for reasons described in the Regents Communication, to pursue a court action to obtain Michigan attorney general and court approval of the lease and any subsequent
conveyance to WSU.
President Duderstadt stated that the University's commitment to and involvement in Detroit are continuing to expand, but will increasingly be conducted in multiple locations. The University intends to establish other sites for
outreach in the city.
Provost Whitaker reported that faculty in the UM and WSU Schools of
Education are involved in discussions to determine what might be an appropriate
kind of participation for UM faculty and students in this venture.
In response to a question from Regent Nielsen, Vice President Womack
stated that a 30-50 year lease is being contemplated because of the amount of
money WSU will be required to spend for renovating the facility to comply with
the Americans with Disabilities Act. Regent Nielsen expressed his opposition to
selling the property. Vice President Womack responded that authority is being
sought to lease the property, not to sell it. However, authority is also being
sought for allowing the Regents to convey the property if it wishes to do so at
some time in the future.


114




October Meeting, 1992


Regent Nielsen responded that he was not opposed to a lease concept but
that he vehemently opposed efforts to sell or convey the property.
In response to a question from Regent McFee, Regent Varner observed that
the community in general welcomes WSU's interest in public education in the
city. Her major concern is what would replace the Rackham Building as the symbol of the University of Michigan's presence in Detroit, should that presence be
withdrawn. Regent Smith expressed the same concerns as Regents Nielsen and
Varner.
Regent Varner noted that if this action regarding the Rackham Building is
approved, it would create an incentive to make the Dearborn campus more a part
of Detroit. Chancellor Klein pointed out that the Dearborn Campus had in the
past requested the use of parts of the Rackham Building for outreach programs
and had been turned down for lack of funding. They had been disappointed when
this happened because it had prevented UM-Dearborn from representing the
University's presence in Detroit.
In response to a question from Vice President Womack, Provost Simpson of
UM-Dearbom described the circumstances of the request made by the Dearborn
campus. Vice President Womack reported that there has never been an official
request made to him, nor had there ever been a discussion by the executive
officers of any interest on the part of UM-Dearborn in that property. He observed
that had such a request come forward, it would have been considered warmly.
There was further discussion about the physical characteristics of the Rackham Building and what would be required to make it barrier free. Several comments were made about the extraordinay architecture and craftsmanship in
that building and about the potential damage that could be inflicted upon it were
it to be used as a middle school
Mr. Jim Christenson, director of Plant Operations, stated that the Engineering Society has been used as the University's agent to manage space in the
Rackham Building. They have stopped leasing space out of fear of lawsuits related to the building's inaccessibility. Thus, no income can be expected from the
building, it is only an expense.
Regent McFee suggested that since the legislature has agreed to appropriate
funds to WSU to make the building barrier-free, it might be to the University's
advantage to explore the idea of a joint venture with WSU or perhaps a joint use
of the building rather than just leasing it to them.
Regent Brown suggested delaying action on the proposal until the next
meeting, Regent Nielsen supported this idea. Regent Baker asked that the
parking deck situation also be examined. He stated he would not be opposed to
leasing the building but advocates a shorter term and some control over how the
state appropriation is spent so as not to injure the University's interests. He expressed concern about a possible joint venture.
President Duderstadt stated that the proposition would be returned to the
Regents at the November meeting with a broader set of options and with


115




October Meeting, 1992


attention paid to the Regents' concerns. Regent Varner commented that it was
difficult for her to visualize the Rackham Building being used as a middle schooL
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people on the topics indicated: Gena R. Beamon, staff member, on tuition waivers for employees; Brian
Kight and Robert Van Houweling, students, on the Statement of Student Rights
and Responsibilities.
Following Public Comments, the Regents returned to the business agenda
Tennis Center
Regent Baker moved that the site of the new Tennis Center be changed
from the previously approved location of the former Par Three Golf Course on
South Main Street to the northern portion of recently acquired property on
South State Street, as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Brown
seconded the motion.
Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, described the site and responded to
questions. The vote was then taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals Implementation of the Hospitals'
Network Upgrade
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved submission of a Certificate of Need application to the
Michigan Department of Public Health for the upgrade of the Hospitals' communication network infrastructure at a total cost of $6,800,000.
Replacement of Adult Cardiology Catheterization Laboratory Equipment in University of Michigan Hospitals
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved submission of a Certificate of Need application to the
Michigan Department of Public Health for replacement of the adult cardiac catheterization laboratory equipment in the University of Michigan Hospitals.
University of Michigan Hospitals' Expansion of Cardiac Surgery Services to Crittenton Hospital
Regent Nielsen moved approval of submission of a Certificate of Need application to the Michigan Department of Public Health for expansion of cardiac surgery services to Crittenton Hospital
Vice President Womack responded to questions about the proposal from
Regent Power. The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously.


116




October Meeting, 1992


Renovations
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) modification of Unit
8B in University of Michigan Hospitals (UMH) to accommodate allogeneic bone
marrow transplant patients; 2) renovations in the North Ingalls Building to
house the MNet (Referring Physician Computer Network) program; 3) replacement of UMH angiography equipment with a neurointerventional imaging system; 4) renovation of labs G142 and G173 in the Dana Building for the School of
Natural Resources and Environment; and 5) replacement of condensate water
lines in the School of Dentistry.
Resolution Regarding Gift Designation for Matching Grants
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved the following: 1) their acceptance of certain gifts already
received and accepted by them prior to August 1992 on the terms and conditions
under which they were solicited, received, and accepted, for the agreed upon purpose of meeting and matching qualification standards for this grant; and 2) their
understanding that these gifts, and any future gifts solicited, received, and accepted for this purpose, which qualify for the matching funds, are and will be
committed as permanent endowment funds of the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies or the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Agreements between the University of Michigan and Advanced Network and Services (ANS)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved agreements with Advanced Network and Services (ANS),
a nonprofit company formed by MERIT, IBM, and MCI, to operate the Network
Operations Center on the University of Michigan's North Campus.
Because the chair of the ANS board of directors, Douglas Van Houweling, is
also a University employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreements will be the Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan and Advanced Network and Services (ANS).
2.  The proposed contracts between ANS and the University of Michigan will be in
the form of a lease agreement for University space at the UM Network
Operations Center (NOC) at $25 per square foot, with a contract for services
totaling approximately $109,000 annually for 18 months effective November 1,
1992. There will be no University employees assigned to the facility or service
contract
3.  Dr. Van Houweling will not receive a salary or other pecuniary benefit from
ANS and is not receiving any portion of his University salary from the performance of these contracts. No other University of Michigan employee has a
pecuniary interest in these agreements.


117




October Meeting, 1992


Agreements between the University of Michigan and the Medical College of Ohio
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract between the University of Michigan and
the Medical College of Ohio to conduct a joint research project. Because one of
the parties to the agreement, Dr. Robert Blumenthal, is an employee of the Medical College of Ohio and also is an adjunct associate professor at the University of
Michigan, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreements will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and
the Medical College of Ohio.
2.   The agreement will be a standard Michigan subcontract for three years in the
amount of $79,052. The prime award from the National Science Foundation is
for three years in the amount of $390,000. The proposed subcontract will detail
the scope of work and the budget.
3.   Dr. Blumenthal will be compensated by the Medical College of Ohio from the
subcontract for a total of 1.8 months. His adjunct appointment at Michigan is
without compensation.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual
Property (William D. Ensminger)
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved reassignment of the University's ownership interest in
the intellectual property of William D. Ensminger, "Implantable Access Device."
Because Dr. Ensminger is also a University employee, this agreement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of Michigan and
William D. Ensminger, MD., Ph.D.
2.   The terms and pecuniary interests are the same as those previously disclosed to
and approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987 (hereby incorporated by reference in this action request) with one exception: the University will receive 23
percent of future royalties instead of the standard 15 percent. This is consistent
with a previous reassignment agreement (UM file #503) with Dr. Ensminger
and two other employees/inventors, James Knoll and James Andrews. The
higher percentage for the University is in recognition of its significant licensing
efforts prior to reassignment.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual
Property (William D. Ensminger, James C. Andrews, and James A.
Knol)
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved reassignment of the University's ownership interest in
the intellectual property of William D. Ensminger, James C. Andrews, and James
A   Knol, "Implantable Access Devices" (UM       File #503c4). Because Drs.
Ensminger, Andrews, and Knol are both parties to the agreement and University


118




October Meeting, 1992


employees, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of Michigan and
William D. Ensminger, James C. Andrews, and James A Knol.
2.  The terms and pecuniary interests are the same as those previously disclosed to
and approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987 (hereby incorporated by reference in this action request) with one exception: the University will receive 23
percent of future royalties instead of the standard 15 percent. This is consistent
with a previous reassignment agreement (UM file #503) with Ensminger,
Knoll, and Andrews. The higher percentage for the University is in recognition
of its significant licensing efforts prior to reassignment.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual
Property (Michael Sivak and Michael J. Flannagan)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved reassignment of the University's ownership interest in
the intellectual property of Michael Sivak and Michael J. Flannagan, "Fast-Onset
Incandescent Signal Light" (UM File #137). Because Messrs. Sivak and Flannagan are both parties to the agreement and University employees, this agreement
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of Michigan and Michael Sivak and Michael J. Flannagan.
2.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and approved by
the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated by reference in this
action request.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
Vice President Hartford described the process by which the Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities had been developed, noting that input had
been solicited from a wide variety of constituent groups on campus. She pointed
out that 89 percent of students completing a survey favored the concept of having
such a statement. Draft 12.2 contained many suggestions from students and reflected the concerns expressed by both the student rights commission of MSA
and the student ACLU group. That draft was published in the Michigan Daily
and the Michigan Review and was also discussed in a public forum on Monday,
October 12. On Wednesday morning, she met with students who had been involved in the earlier drafts. The statement was revised again, and that is the version being presented to the Regents.
Vice President Hartford pointed out that certain elements of the statement
are required by federal law. One area in which the University is currently not in
compliance with the law is in not having an on-campus policy and hearing process for sexual assault and rape. This is one reason for her desire to enact the
statement as soon as possible. Her suggestion is that the current Statement of
Student Rights and Responsibilities be put into place by the president as an


119




October Meeting, 1992


interim policy for a period of one year, using his powers under Regents' Bylaw
2.01. This would give the University a chance to assess how the policy works and
to further revise it if necessary. The policy would then be brought to the Regents
in the fall of 1993 with a request for adoption as a permanent policy.
Regent Baker read from a prepared statement in which he observed that the
University has had a strong history of resistance to attempts to limit speech and
conduct. He reviewed the history of previous attempts at codifying behavior, including Regents' Bylaw 7.02, the 1988 Policy on Discrimination and Discriminatory Harassment which had been found unconstitutional, and the interim code
established in 1989 which was abandoned after the U.S. Supreme Court found
such codes to be unconstitutional.
Regent Baker stated that he strongly opposes any code of student conduct,
except those required by law. Some of the reasons for this are that the accused
does not have the right to representation by an attorney; some of the sanctioned
behavior, such as murder, arson, and forgery are already covered by city and
state law; and the fact that certain crimes, such as sexual harassment, rape, and
harassment apply wherever they occur, whereas crimes such as assault, battery,
and murder are covered only when they occur in Ann Arbor. The latter point
constitutes a double standard.
Other concerns are that the code incorporates the Faculty Senate's 1990
"Statement of Fundamental Tenets of Membership in the University Community" and then attempts to establish and define the values of the University and
standards and expectations for behavior, and lists penalties for noncompliance.
Regent Baker believes that this is problematic because it is nearly impossible to
define University values, and that most students arrive at the University with
strong moral or religious beliefs which affect their definition of values. It is difficult to reconcile the differences between the student's values and the University's values. Regent Baker pointed to the statement in the section on sanctions
that while "it is inappropriate for the University to try to change a student's convictions, it remains appropriate for the University to ask a student to change behavior," as illustrating where different sets of values come into conflict, and as an
Orwellian example of behavior modification.
He pointed out that the section on mediation does not include the various
student religious organizations as places which are available to provide counseling and support when students' values and morals conflict with those established
by the University. He also noted the seriousness of the policy's not allowing for
legal representation when a student is accused of a serious crime such as murder,
and he pointed out that some actions which are illegal under state law are not
specified in the policy; this is inconsistent with the duty of campus safety officers
and Regents to uphold state law.
Regarding the president's intention to implement the policy under the powers of Bylaw 2.01, Regent Baker's interpretation of the bylaw is that it places limits on the president's authority. His opinion is that the policy should be enacted
by the Regents, not by the president, with a specific time limit set for review.
Experience with the previous interim harassment policy, which was not enacted


120




October Meeting, 1992


by the Regents, proved unpleasant; he urged further review and discussion of the
statement by the Regents, and a student vote on the final draft, before the Regents vote whether or not to enact it. Regent Baker's final objection is that
implementation of the code would lead to an expanded University bureaucracy in
which many aspects of student life would be controlled and behavior modification
might become the norm, affecting not only students, but all members of the University community. He urged that action on the policy be delayed until the Regents have had an opportunity to receive input from all interested parties,
particularly students.
Regent Brown noted that the current intent is to implement the code, see
how it works for a year, and then to have the Regents consider a final document
for approval. He pointed out that there had been extensive student input at all
stages of development of the code. Because of statutory mandates that there be a
policy to deal with sexual assault and rape, there is no choice but to have a process in place.
Regarding due process, in the absence of a code setting out procedures to be
followed, the president is currently powerless to expel a student if that student
were to go to court and raise due process questions about the expulsion. Although valid objections have been raised, he thought there was no choice but to
put the code in place and then bring it back for eventual consideration.
Noting that the concept of a student code had been an issue for a number of
years, Regent Varner commended Vice President Hartford for developing the
code now before the Board. She stated that we need a code, and need some statement of rights and responsibilities. She expressed her support for enacting this
code on an interim basis, as it gives people a chance to work out any problems
with members of the University community prior to formal adoption by the Regents.
Regent Smith stated her belief that the current document goes far beyond
the requirements of the law. She had many questions about legal issues, the definition of "harassment", and stated her belief that this code is unconstitutional
and invites lawsuits. She believed that accused parties should be allowed to have
legal representation, and asked to have the dean of the Law School review the
policy to make certain that it is constitutional Regent Smith also stated that having only received the document the previous evening, she had not had sufficient
time to review it before the meeting. She expressed agreement with Regent
Baker that because it is a policy, it should be implemented by the Regents.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Vice President Hartford read
the definition of harassment from the statement and gave examples of behavior
that could be considered harassment. Regent Smith expressed doubts that students would be able to understand everything that is expected of them by this
document. She asked what the University's rights are with respect to conduct
that occurs in a private home or apartment; Vice President Hartford explained
that just as the University has a right to control who is admitted, it has a right to
control who can stay if their behavior poses a danger to the community.


121




October Meeting, 1992


In response to Regents Smith's request that the document be reviewed for
legality, Vice President Hartford stated that it had been reviewed for legality by
counsel and had been sent to the dean of the Law School Regent Smith stated
that she would like the Law School dean's review to be in writing. Regent Brown
observed that it would be inappropriate to have the dean of the Law School act as
counsel to the Regents.
President Duderstadt pointed out that thousands of American colleges and
universities operate with similar policies. Vice President Hartford added that the
University's document provides more due process protections than the majority
of other such policies.
Regent Nielsen complimented Vice President Hartford for all of her efforts
in developing the policy and obtaining input. He stated that this issue would be
more appropriately discussed on the Ann Arbor campus than the Flint campus.
He also expressed concurrence with Regents Baker and Smith that the policy
should be adopted by the Regents, not implemented by the president, even on an
interim basis. Regent Nielsen also noted that he had not had adequate time to
review the document.
Regent Nielsen agreed with previous comments that the University does not
have jurisdiction over conduct that occurs off campus and stated that he would
not support any code that addresses such conduct. Regarding the issue of
counsel, he stated that he did not believe the University was obliged to provide
counsel but that students should not be prohibited from having legal counsel or
other type of representation. Regent Nielsen suggested that the document be
held over until the next meeting in Ann Arbor and then brought to a vote by the
Regents rather than be implemented by the president
Regent Power pointed out that there were two issues, one having to do with
the substance of the proposed interim code, and the other having to do with the
process by which the code is evaluated by the University and eventually implemented or not implemented by vote of the Regents. He agreed that there were a
number of questions about the code that needed to be resolved and suggested
that implementing it on an interim basis would allow for a real-life evaluation of
it and would serve as a means for perfecting it. The process question had to do
with whether the Regents should rescind the old Rules of the University Community and thereby set in motion a process for the president to implement an interim code for evaluation by the University community.
Regent McFee stated that although she recognized the urgency of enacting a
code, there had not been a mechanism for Regents to have any input. Among her
questions are 1) What is the objection to having legal counsel? 2) What are the
limits placed on actions by students that occur outside of Ann Arbor? Do the
actions relate only to those having some relationship to their status as a student
or do they concern any activity they might engage in while outside of Ann Arbor?
3) When bringing significant criminal charges for such crimes as murder and
arson, she wondered how, in terms of timing, the University's proceedings would
affect criminal proceedings that occur outside of the University.


122




October Meeting, 1992


President Duderstadt pointed out that he has suspended students deemed
to be a significant threat to the University community, usually after they have
been indicted for a serious crime. He has also taken action under Bylaw 2.01 in
cases where students have committed assault or destroyed property. The problem
is that with no code, there has been no due process in these situations. He stated
that he looked at establishment of the code as an evolutionary process, and it can
be modified as experience dictates.
Regents Brown and Varner noted that the questions raised by Regent
McFee have all been raised in previous discussions. Regent Varner asked how a
student's status at the University would be affected by the student being convicted of a crime. Regent Brown pointed out that it is impossible to anticipate every question that could arise under the code; some things will have to be
determined through experience. The assumption should be that reasonable people will use their best judgment, will administer the policy reasonably, and will
respond to problems on a case-by-case basis.
Vice President Hartford stated that all of the concerns regarding due process that had been expressed by the Regents had been addressed in formulating
the document and that the draft statement extends far beyond what case law has
determined is needed on a college campus. She pointed out that in recent years,
state and federal governments have been holding universities more accountable
for what they are doing on campus to deal with crime. The view is that campuses
themselves have a responsibility to deal with crime; it is not enough to resort to
existing laws. Regarding the issue of legal counsel, under this policy students
have the right to have legal counsel with them to advise them, which is consistent with other existing policies affecting faculty and staff. The faculty chair and
students on the hearing panel serve as questioners; not an attorney. She emphasized that it is ethically right for the University of Michigan to have a document
like this; we are behind the times not to have one. She believes that it is fair to
say that there are certain rules that students are expected to abide by; if they feel
they cannot, they can lose the privilege to attend the University.
Regent Baker moved that further consideration of this matter be delayed
until the next month. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion. Regent Brown
pointed out that no action on the part of the Regents was being requested; therefore the motion should be restated that the policy should not be put into effect
until the following month. The vote was taken, and the motion failed, with
Regents Baker, McFee, Nielsen, and Smith in favor and Regents Brown, Power,
Varner, and Waters opposed.
Regent Brown noted that if the policy were to be put into effect, it would be
in conflict with two other documents already in effect Therefore Regent Brown
moved that those two instruments (The Rules of the University Community and
the University Judicial System) be repealed, to be effective at such time as the interim code is put into effect.
Regent Nielsen stated that it would be inappropriate for the president to put
the Statement on Student Rights and Responsibilities into effect, given the discussion and vote that had just occurred. He asked the Board to reject Regent


123




October Meeting, 1992


Brown's motion at this time so that the entire issue could culminate next month
in      Arbor.
Following some discussion, at 6:35 P.M., it was decided to take a five minute
recess.
The meeting resumed at 6:50 P.M. President Duderstadt stated that a number of important issues had been raised, both by the Regents and by students
and that the effort to put a policy together is organic and evolutionary. He stated
that although he does have the authority under Regents' Bylaw 2.01 to enact the
policy on an interim basis, he did not intend to invoke that authority until such
time as some of the questions that had been raised had been addressed. He would
continue to interact with members of the Board and with student groups until
such time as the policy had been refined to the point where he could implement
it.
Regent Brown then withdrew his motion to repeal the Rules of the University Community and the University Judicial System. Regent Nielsen withdrew
his objections to the motion.
Revision of Regents' Bylaws Sections 5.01 and 5.23 (non-tenure-track
clinical appointment sequence for the School of Dentistry)
Regent Baker moved revision of Regents' Bylaws Sections 5.01 and 5.23, for
the purpose of creating a full-time nontenure-track clinical appointment sequence for the School of Dentistry. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously. The revised text of the bylaws is as follows:
Sec. &01.    Definitions
As used in these bylaws:
1.   The term faculy shall include members of the teaching and research
staff together with the executive officers, the directors of various
teaching, research, and library units, research associates, curators,
and persons with similar duties
2.   The term professorial staff shall include professors, associate professors, and assistant professors.
3.   The term governing faculty. when used in connection with a school or
college, shall include those members of the school or college who are
professors, associate professors, assistant professors, and in the Law
School and the School of Dentistry, clinical professorial staff The
governing faculty shall include instructors and lecturers who hold
appointments of one-halftime or more; provided, however, that such
instructors and lecturers may vote at faculty meetings only if they
have held appointments for one or more years and are authorized to
vote by a mojority of the professorial staff of the appropriate schoo or
college.
4.   The term teaching staff shall include professors, associate professors,
assistant professors, instructors, lecturers, and teaching fellows.
5.   The terms teaching fellow. teachi  associate teaching assistant,
student assistant. research assistant, technical assistant. laboratory
assistant and assistant shall be used to designate junior appointees


124




October Meeting, 1992


who participate in the processes of teaching and research but do not
possess faculty rank. Students in these classifications shall have student status.
6.   The term universit year. as used in connection with appointments of
members of the faculty and other personnel, contains any two terms
in the calendar, as defined for the year in question. Faculty members
are expeced to participate in orientation, registration, and commencement.
Sec. 5.23.   Clinical Instructional Staff
1.   Professional practitioners in the community or within the University
may be appointed at appointment fractions below 50 percent as clinical professors, associate professors, assiantprofessors, instructors or
lecturers in order to supplement the instructional program
Appointment and/or promotion criteria shall be consistent with those
for regular instructional ranks to the extent applicable.
Clinical appointments or reappointments are recommended by the
appropriate instructional department and school or college and are
approved by the president.
Appointments as clinical instructional staff below 50 percent are on
an annual or shorter basis and without tenure.
2.   Physicians may be appointed to the Medical School at appointment
fractions of 50 percent or higher as clinical professors, clinical associate professors, clinical assistant professors, clinical instructors, or
clinical lecturers.
Appointment and/or promotion criteria shall be consistent with those
for regular instructional ranks to the extent applicable.
Clinical appointments or reappointments are recommended by the
appropriate instructional department and the school, and are approved by the president.
Medical School appointments as clinical instructional staff at appointment fractions of 50 percent or higher may be for periods up to
three years. All clinical appointments are without tenure.
3.   Faculty may be appointed to the Law School and the School of Dentistry at appointment fractions of 50 percent or higher as clinical professors, clinical associate professors, or clinical assistant professors.
Appointment and promotion criteria shall be consistent with those for
regular instructional ranks to the extent applicable.
Recommendations for appointment, reappointment and promotion
shall be made by the dean and approved by the president.
Law School and School of Dentistry appointments to the clinical
instructional staff at fractions of 50 percent or higher may be for
periods of up to seven years. All clinical appointments are without
tenure.
4.   Faculty may be appointed to the College of Pharmacy at appointment
fractions of 50 percent or higher as clinical professors, clinical associate professors, clinical assistant professors, or clinical instructors.


125




October Meeting, 1992


Appointment and promotion criteria shall be consistent with those for
regular instutiona ranks to the extent applicable.
Recommendations for appointment reappointment and promotion
shall be made by the dean and are approved by the president.
College of Pharmacy appointments to the clinical instnrional staff
at fractions of 50 peren er or higher  be for periods of up to three
years. Al clinical appointments are wit h tenure
Revision of Regents' Bylaws Sections 6.02, 11.116, 11.17, and 11.171
(School of Natural Resoures and Environment)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved revision of Regents' Bylaws Sections 6.02, 11.116, 11.17,
and 11.171 to reflect a change in the name of the School of Natural Resources to
the School of Natural Resources and Environment. The following is the text of
the revised bylaws:
Sec. 602.    Deree Program Definitions
Undergraduate degree programs are offered by:
The University of Michigan (Ann Arbor Campus)
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
School of Art
School of Business Administration
School of Dentistry
School of Education
College of Engineering
Division ofKinesiology
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Music
School of Natural Resources and Environment
School of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
The University of MichiganDearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
School of Education
School of Engineering
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
School of Management
The University of Michigan-Flint
College of Arts and Sciences
School of Health Professions and Studies
School of Management
Graduate degree programs are offered by the schools and colleges on all three
campuses, and by the divisions at The University of Michigan-Dearborn, through the
agency of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, leading to the master's,
doctoral, and related degrees. In addition, the Cllege of Architecture and Uran
Planning, the School of Business Administration, the School of Health Professions and
Studies, the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and the Schools of
Management at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and at the University of
Michigan-Flint are authorized to offer the master's degree in appropriate professional
fields and the School of Music, the master's degree in applied music.


126




October Meeting, 1992


Graduate professional degree programs are offered by the:
School of Dentistry
Law School
Medical School
College of Pharmacy
School of Public Health
School of Social work
Sec. 11.116. The College of Literture. Science, and the Arts: The Bioloical
Station
The Biological Station at Douglas Lake shall be maintained for the purpose of
combining field work with instruction and research in the biological sciences. Its facilities shall be equally available to all qualified members of the University staff.
The station shall be in the charge of a director appointed by the Board on recommendation by the president and responsible to the dean and executive committee.
The director shall be ex officio custodian of the lands assigned to the Biological
Station for scientific purposes. The director shall be assisted by an executive committee
consisting of the following: the director of the Biological Station, ex officio, who shall
be chair; the chair of the Division of Biological Sciences, ex officio; the dean of the
School of Natural Resources and Environment, ex officio, or the dean's designated representative; the director of the Great Lakes and Marine Waters Center, ex officio, or the
director's designated representative, a representative of the group for botany; a representative of the group for ecology, behavior, and evolutionary biology; a representative
of the group for systematics, and an elected representative of the Biological Station faculty.
The executive committee shall be responsible for the general management of the
station and the lands assigned thereto for scientific purposes; for developing e ional policies and programs; for making recommendations to the dean and the executive
committee concerning budgets, appointments, and plant development and operation.
Scientists who are visiting workers at the camp may be admitted to all of the
privileges of the students subject to the approval of the director and subject, further, to
all the restrictions and obligations imposed upon students.
Sec. 11.17.   The School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive
Committee
The executive committee shall consist of the dean and four members of the tenured professorial faculty to be appointed by the Board of Regents on recommendation
by the president. The appointed members shall hold office for two years, and the terms
shall be adjusted so that two will expire each year. The appointed members shall be eligible for reappointment for one additional term but shall not thereafter be eligible for
reappointment until after the lapse of two years. The governing faculty is authorized to
arrange for students, not more than two in number, selected in accordance with procedures and for terms approved by the governing faculty, to participate in meetings of the
executive committee in an advisory capacity.
Sec. 11.171.  The School of Natural Resources and Environment: Camp
Filiber Roth
The work of Camp Filibert Roth shall be conducted for the purpose of combining
field work with instruction and research. The camp shall be in the charge of a director
appointed by the Board on recommendation by the president, responsible to the dean of
the School of Natural Resources and Environment. The director shall have the


127




October Meeting, 1992


authority over and responsibility for administration of the camp, its programs of
instruction an d     shall have jurisdiction over the conduc and activities of
all studts in the director's charge.
Medical Staff Appointments
On the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals executive
board, Regent Waters moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Change in Name of Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering at UM-Dearborn
Regent Power moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, a change in the name of the Department of Industrial and Systems
Engineering at the UM-Dearborn to the Department of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering.
UM-Dearborn Chancellor Search
Regent Brown noted that considerable interest had been expressed in the
procedure the Regents had been following in the search for a chancellor for the
Dearborn campus. He stated that it is not clear under present law to determine
what procedure the Regents should follow. Therefore, the Regents have asked for
an opinion of counsel to advise them on the current state of the law regarding
the Open Meetings Act. Until they have that opinion, nothing further will be
done.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 7:05 PM.
The next meeting will be held on November 19 and 20, 1992. Regents' transportation, accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month
of September 1992 totalled $465.17.
Richard L.enn, Secary


128




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1992


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 19, 1992
The Regents met at 10:15 AM. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, and Smith.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as was Chancellor
Klein. Regents Varner and Waters and Chancellor Jones were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and welcomed Regentelect Rebecca McGowan, who would be sitting in on the November and December Regents' meetings. Regent-elect Laurence Deitch had intended to be present,
but had become ill that morning.
Proposed Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
President Duderstadt announced that time had been set aside to continue
the discussion from the October meeting about the proposed Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities, and called on Vice President Hartford.
Vice President Hartford reviewed the process, begun in March of 1992, that
had been used in arriving at the present draft of the statement. She noted that
students had expressed concerns about infringement of free speech rights under
the Interim Policy on Discriminatory Conduct. Development of the proposed
statement escalated following the U.S. Supreme Court decision in R.E.V. v St.
Paul. That decision led to a belief on the part of the general counsel that the
interim policy would be held unconstitutional if challenged. In addition, the
Higher Education Amendments of 1992 required that there be an on-campus
prohibition of and hearing process for cases of sexual assault and rape.
Vice President Hartford said that she had met with a wide variety of campus constituencies in developing the policy, with a goal of addressing student
concerns about infringements of first amendment rights in the current policy,
and bringing the University into compliance with federal law and with common
practice at other universities. Last summer, copies of an earlier draft had been
sent to every currently registered student with a form soliciting comments. Of
the approximately 3,000 students who responded, most were in favor of having
some kind of statement of student rights and responsibilities.
Public hearings and focus groups had been conducted soliciting input on the
various drafts of the policy. The current draft incorporates suggestions from Regents as well as students. Vice President Hartford is recommending that the
Board rescind the 1973 Rules of the University Community, the 1979 University
Judicial System, and adopt the proposed Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities as an interim policy for one year. An assessment would then be


129




November Meeting, 1992


conducted, and early in 1994 recommendations would be made to the Regents regarding continuation of the policy.
Vice President Hartford quoted from an opinion from Supreme Court Justice Blackman on the rights of universities to adopt policies such as the one proposed.
Statement by Regent Baker. Regent Baker read from a prepared statement in which he argued that the University does not need the proposed code of
student conduct because it would limit free speech, sow distrust within the University, encourage politically correct conduct, and is unconstitutional. Most of the
areas addressed by the proposed Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities ("code"), he argued, are already covered under federal, state, and local law;
those that are not could be handled under a minimalist policy. A copy of Regent
Baker's statement is on file in the Office of the Secretary of the University.
Regent Baker described the strategy undertaken by the administration to
enact the code, including creating the appearance of need, relying on a limited
survey of student attitudes toward such a code, ignoring a student referendum
on the code, and placing advertisements in the Michigan Daily and distributing
handbills in the dormitories just prior to the election. He cited statistics showing
that only a very small fraction of students (one-tenth of one percent) is directly
exposed to serious campus crime.
Regent Baker stated his belief that the administration is seeking to expand
control of student life far beyond the matter of criminal activity, and that this
goal has not changed since 1988. He cited Professor Carl Cohen's letter published
in the October 28, 1992, issue of the University Record warning that the proposed code would silence expression, chill speech, and use improper means to justify the University's ends as it is cast as a suppresser when it is drawn into court
to protect the policy. Professor Cohen described a recent campus example of limiting free speech in which a student dropped a political science class after being
warned by a teaching assistant, with the knowledge of the professor, that the student's language used in a class paper was not acceptable. Further, the student
was warned that his statements would be carefully monitored, and told, "You are
forewarned".
Regent Baker pointed out that the University's original policy on discrimination and discriminatory conduct had been found unconstitutional in September 1989, and that shortly thereafter, a second "hate speech" policy (the "Interim
Policy") had been implemented by President Duderstadt. He cited a statement by
University of Minnesota law professor Suzanna Sherry that Michigan's 1988
code used "raw political power to enforce orthodoxy."
Regent Baker noted that in November 1991 he had argued against codes
that restrict free speech, and quoted from his remarks at that time, which had
called such codes "an insult to the United States Constitution and an anathema
to the idea of a University." He observed that a "hate speech" policy at the University of Wisconsin had been found unconstitutional, and that the University of
Michigan's interim  policy had been abandoned earlier this year after the


130




November Meeting, 1992


Supreme Court found a similar code in Minneapolis to be unconstitutional. He
reiterated his belief that although President Duderstadt and Vice President
Hartford do not agree with him, history and current experience prove that the
proposed code does restrict free speech.
Regent Baker reviewed complaints filed under existing policies since 1988,
noting that these totaled about 100 per year. According to his analysis, most of
the complaints had to do with an individual feeling injured by a remark, obscene
language written on a wall, or posters being torn down. There were also complaints in dormitories stemming from drinking, partying, and sexual harassment
in various forms, from minor to extremely serious. Complaints had also been
filed for rape and other criminal acts which had also been reported to the appropriate civil authorities.
Regent Baker stated that he had supported the establishment of a University police force because of his belief that it would be more responsive to dangerous
incidents involving students; he believes that the police force has led to reductions in crime. He also pointed out that the number of incidents cited under the
current policies indicates that only.0029 percent of the total student body has
been affected by reported crimes.
Regent Baker concluded that the case for adoption of the proposed Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities has not been proved; the code will
injure freedom of speech and will injure the overall integrity of the University; it
will be found unconstitutional by federal courts; and politically correct conduct
will be expected of students. He distributed the text of his prepared remarks, including an addendum listing 15 specific text changes to the proposed statement,
and suggested that the matter of the code be set aside until the December meeting for resolution.
Statement by Regent Smith. Noting that she had opposed the first
harassment policy in 1987, Regent Smith then read from a prepared statement
which described her views about the proposed Statement of Student Rights and
Responsibilities. A copy of Regent Smith's statement is on file in the Office of the
Secretary of the University. Regent Smith said that she is concerned for the safety of individuals and for civil liberties and believes that the University should
promote democracy. After carefully reviewing arguments on both sides of the issue and consulting with administrators, lawyers, and others, she has come to the
conclusion that the use of administrative trials to accomplish the document's
goals is the wrong approach.
Regent Smith observed that the two things she favored about the document
are the concept of a list of expected student conduct consistent with the law, and
its provision for the use of voluntary mediation as an alternative to bringing formal charges in a court of law.
Regent Smith enumerated a list of problems with the statement, including
that lawyers are not allowed to speak at hearings; protest isn't really excluded
from punishment; alleged violence in a protest is subjective; the accused should
not have to have the consent of others to a trial's being public; the code can be


131




November Meeting, 1992


interpreted to include restrictions on speech; a sworn affidavit can be brought
against the accused; and the judicial advisor can testify.
Regent Smith concluded that it would not be enough to amend these problems; she agreed with the students that the process is controlled and that the
code is unfair. As alternatives to addressing the problems addressed by the document, she said that the legal system provides means to deal with problems caused
by students who commit major crimes. In all other cases, she stated that she likes
the voluntary mediation provision in the proposed statement, and would like to
see that available. She would also be in favor of a narrow code for sex crimes, as
required by law.
Regent Smith noted that a number of students had expressed concerns
about administrators sending out a purportedly one-sided explanation of the
statement three days before a student vote, giving no time for rebuttal. She said
she was surprised that this had been done.
Regent Brown observed that Regent Baker's remarks stated general objections to a code, but these objections did not apply to the code in question. The
questions raised by Regent Smith seem to be clearly covered by this code, and
would be rebutted by a reading of it. He noted that the code defines students' basic rights and the University's expectations; it is not punitive, and it states the
conditions under which the code does not apply. He listed the areas to which the
code does not apply, noting that it does not apply to speech protected by the first
amendment.
Regent Brown read from the section of the code on "Student Responsibilities" (Section IV), which lists the specific personal actions that are prohibited on
University property or at official University functions, asking whether anyone
really believed that these actions (such as sexual assault and rape, harassment,
physical assault and battery, etc.) should not be prohibited. Regarding the area of
harassment, he said that thiis sdifficult to interpret and define and would be
handled by experience under the code.
Finally, Regent Brown pointed out that if the University did not have a legal framework for handling these sorts of violations, it could be found liable, and
its hands would be tied for not having a procedure to handle these obviously
grievous offenses. As for the concerns that had been expressed about the code's
limiting freedom of speech, he quoted from Section I of the code, "it does not apply to speech protected by the First Amendment." He noted that proper procedures had been followed in drawing up the code and that legal counsel had
advised that it does meet standards of due process. It was time to proceed with
establishing a framework in which students' rights and responsibilities can be
enforced.
Regent Nielsen made specific suggestions as to language that could be inserted so as to assuage concerns about freedom of speech. He then pointed to specific concerns with Sections 14(a) and 14(h) under Students' Responsibilities.
Vice President Hartford responded that she would be happy to review and
perhaps revise those sections. Regent Nielsen then addressed other specific


132




November Meeting, 1992


concerns he had about other sections of the statement, and Vice President Hartford responded with the reasoning behind the language to which he referred.
Regent McFee observed that she had extensive discussions with a wide variety of people about the code, many of whom had expressed the same concerns as
some of the other Regents, but she had decided to support it. She pointed out
that although there may not ever have been a student code, the University has
historically had numerous regulations governing student conduct, especially for
female students. Many of the problems addressed in the code have developed
since the advent of coed dormitories and changes in some of the other norms regarding student living situations, leading to a more constant interchange between male and female students as well as between students from diverse
cultural backgrounds.
The strength of the policy, according to Regent McFee, is that it offers a student judicial process, which gives students the opportunity to not only help develop what should be dealt with in the code, but to evaluate complaints brought
under the code and further refine the definition of what constitutes offensive behavior in our society. Regent McFee defined offensive behavior as being offensive
to the person experiencing it, not offensive to the person who is giving it.
Regent McFee commented that to her, education is not necessarily an attempt to change one's moral values, but it is an educational process to become
aware of the effect that an offensive act has on the receiving individual. Regent
McFee observed that the strength of the policy is the student judicial process, as
it provides an opportunity to define and evaluate offensive behavior, and to express concerns about behavior in a forum that is at a far lower level than what
takes place in a civil proceeding. This process also creates an opportunity to raise
matters that might eventually become severe enough to become cause for legislative action. She cited recently enacted legislation concerning stalking as an example.
Regent McFee concluded that the policy needs to be enacted to see how well
it will work and to discover what amendments might be necessary for it to be a
well-functioning policy.
Regent Power observed that a code of student behavior is not a criminal
code, and to criticize it for failing to meet the standards of a criminal code distorts the discussion. The purpose of the code is to set forth the expectations for
behavior for students in a university community and to facilitate an educational
process by which people of different backgrounds can learn to live together in a
university environment. Thus, the issues addressed by the code do not have to do
with determining guilt or innocence with defendants and prosecutors, as in
criminal law, but in setting forth expectations for student behavior and determining whether or not people have behaved in ways that are inappropriate in the
context of membership in a university community.
Regent Baker pointed out that no matter how good the intent, once a policy
is set in place, the mindset is created that certain behaviors are punishable that
were never meant to be so. His objection is with what the policy will become once


133




November Meeting, 1992


it is set in motion. Regent Baker then described the fifteen specific objections to
the policy that are included in his prepared statement Vice President Hartford
responded to some of the issues raised by Regent Baker.
Regent Smith reiterated her belief that unless there are no restrictions on
free speech, the University is likely to end up in court In response, Regent
Brown pointed out that the code states that as the law currently stands, it does
nothing to limit legally protected free speech. Regent Smith replied that she
agreed with Regent Baker, that the mere existence of the document would repress free speech on a campus with a long history of activism.
President Duderstadt noted that all other campuses with activist traditions,
including the University of California at Berkeley and Columbia University have
student behavioral codes similar to this one. Regent Smith pointed out that at
those two campuses, attorneys are allowed to speak for their clients at hearings
held under auspices of their codes. Regent Brown responded that the courts have
held that this is not required for student codes.
Regent Power noted that concerns had been raised about the process followed by Vice President Hartford in developing the code, whether it had been an
insincere, manipulative process designed to develop a political coloration, or a
sincere attempt to consult with students. If the code was indeed developed with
extensive student involvement, and the Regents then criticize the resulting draft
and change much of the language, it is being subjected to an impossible standard.
Regent Smith asked whether the Regents would vote on the code before the
outcome of the MSA referendum on it was known. President Duderstadt responded that this might be the case. He noted that it was to be an interim policy
that had a sunset, and it had been developed after much input from the community.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Nielsen then made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session at 3:00 P.M. on November 19, 1992, in the Regents' Room,
for the purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation, and for
considering material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such exempt material consists of a
written opinion from the Boards' legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
The meeting recessed at 12:20 PM. for lunch.
The meeting reconvened at 1:25 PM. in the Regents' Room Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith,


134




November Meeting, 1992


and Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Klein. Regent Varner was absent.
Chancellor, University of Michigan-Dearborn
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and announced that he
was recommending the appointment of James C. Renick as chancellor of the
University of Michigan-Dearborn. He expressed his deep appreciation to Interim
Chancellor Bernard Klein for providing leadership to the Dearborn campus and
counsel to the executive officers during the interim period.
President Duderstadt reviewed Professor Renick's credentials and then introduced Professor Charlotte Otto, who chaired the search committee that recommended his appointment. Professor Otto reviewed the search process and
noted that all of the people involved in the search were unanimous in their support of Professor Renick
Regent Brown moved approval of the appointment of James C. Renick as
chancellor of the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Regent Waters seconded the
motion. Regent Brown expressed his gratification with the search process. Chancellor Klein commented that he had never seen such unanimity and enthusiasm
in any search that had been conducted in his 22 years on campus. There being no
further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Chancellor Selection Process
Regent Baker observed that the Regents had always participated in choosing senior officers of the University, but that was not the case in this instance because of the constraints imposed by the Open Meetings Act. Consequently, he
had no knowledge of Professor Renick. He stated that public oversight of the
University should entail the Regents being able to meet with individuals under
consideration for guiding the University in a setting that allows for thorough discussion of questions and issues that might be germane to the position. He believes the Open Meetings Act diminishes the powers of the Regents to the point
of making them inconsequential in the process of governance. Because serious
policy and personnel matters cannot be discussed in private, the process forces
the Regents to turn over such decisions to the administrative officers of the University. This does great injury to the process of governance; the Regents had no
part whatsoever in the selection of Professor Renick.
Regent Brown pointed out that because of pending litigation, it is difficult to
determine the status of the Open Meetings Act, and therefore the Regents could
not risk getting involved in this search in a meaningful way. He noted that this
problem also affects the governing boards of the state's other public institutions,
and that the legislature may revisit the question. He stated that the best situation would be one in which at least part of a search process can be done in a
non-public forum where tougher questions can be asked than would otherwise be
the case. He believes that injury could be done to the quality of these institutions


135




November Meeting, 1992


unless a process can be worked out which both protects the public's right to
know and the candidate's right to privacy.
Regent McFee noted that she had not had an opportunity to participate in
the search for a major University post until now, and she was disappointed in the
constraints placed on the Board in this process. She noted that in a private
search, the variety and quality of candidates is enhanced over those in which
there is public scrutiny of the candidates, because to entice people not seeking
new employment, confidentiality has to be ensured.
There being no further discussion, the president turned to the regular business agenda.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of October 15, 1992.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
University Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory, Plant Extension, Litigation,
and Personnel-Labor Relations; Vice President Kelly submitted reports of Projects Established-Research and Other Activities and Summaries of a Selection of
Current Research.
Following some discussion, Regent Brown moved, Regent Waters seconded,
and the Regents unanimously approved receipt of the reports.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Cosovich submitted Report on Voluntary Support for the
month of October 1992. The Regents received the following gifts, with thanks,
and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Aastrom Biosciences, Inc., Ann Arbor
for internal medicine research in the Medical School  r.7,260
Aluminum Company of America, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for aerospace research in the College of Engineering.....20,000
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.......... 6,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts............2.  154,128
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School _...............10,000
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy _..222,500
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School -__6..........,026250
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School..... ----...-....66,725
American Society of Hematology, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School. --- _    ---...7,500


136




November Meeting, 1992


Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts.............16,210
Anonymous Donor
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School...5.. 0,000
Dorothy D. Arbury, Midland
1,000 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock for the Hill Auditorium
Restoration Fund.......-............ - 54,376
Atlantic Richfield Company, Dallas, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration    -.....10,000
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for the University of Michigan Hospitals........10,00
BASF Corporation, Parsippany, New Jersey
for laser mass spectrometry research, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........25,000
C. R. Bard, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah
for research in the Medical School.............40,000
Bear-Wood Management, Inc., Detroit
for the Building Fund in the School of Social Work..5_...........5,000
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust, Flint
for support of the University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts and Sciences --......,000
William Blair & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School _........94,973
Andrew G. Bliner Trust
for arthritis research in the Medical School _6___._.___..................6,067
Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
for the Burn Research and Education Fund in the Medical School _.... __...20,000
F. A. and A. M. Bower Charitable Trust
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School  _................10,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration.,000
Michael N. Bucci, Anderson, South Carolina
for the Crosby-Kahm Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School......... 10,000
Buick-Oldsmobile-Cadillac Group, General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering __.._....6,000
Business Fund for Canadian Studies in the United States, Toronto, Ontario
for the Corporate Strategy Faculty Research Fund, School of Business Administration..5,000
Kenneth H. Campbell Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the Medical School _,8,000
Irene K. Carroll Estate
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  __58,875
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration _,0       00
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering _6,000
Tseng-Chun Chu, Los Angeles, California
for the Levi Barbour Scholarship for Oriental Women in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies._.20,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarships, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts __._                         __...___ 10,000
Hal Cooper, Beverly Hills, California
for the Hal Cooper Scholarship in the School of Music __._...20,000
Gilbert A. Currie, Midland
for scholarships and golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.... 12,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School _                                         97,469
Thomas F. Daly, North Miami, Florida
for the John F. Daly Basketball Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics  2__ 12,500
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for employee matching gifts.......14,140
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School _    _,10,000
Anthony V. DeVito Sr., Bradenton, Florida
for the Anthony V. DeVito II Memorial Award in the Medical School,10,000
Glenn R. Doshay, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration..6,000


137




November Meeting, 1992


Dow Chemical USA., Midland
for employee matching gifts _.-.5,260
Dow Elanco, Indianapolis, Indiana
for Dow Chemical scholarships and fellowships in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                           6.....5,000
Gunter Dufey, Ann Arbor
1,200 shares of New American High Income Fund common stock for the
International Business Faculty Fund in the School of Business Administration.... 5,250
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the du Pont Funds in the College of Engineering.........8,000
Eastman Kodak Charitable Trust, Rochester, New York
for the Minority Program Fund in the College of Engineering............................,000
Engle Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 10,000
Josephine Hull Farnsworth Estate
for the Josephine Hull Farnsworth Fund in the Law School __._.............................48,452
Mrs. F. Robert Fekety, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Robert Fekety, M.D., Lectureship in the Medical School..............,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering __. .............. 6,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering...............................................................10,000
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan.........................................5,000
Christine M. Gaensbauer, Sun City, Arizona
632 shares of Air Products & Chemicals common stock for the Christine M.
Gaensbauer Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Medical School................................_27,887
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..................110,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for fellowships and scholarships in the College of Engineering....................45,360
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for employee matching gifts........69,611
William D. Gowans, Pasadena, California
1,950 shares of various corporate common stocks for the William D. and Madeline
A. Gowans Student Aid Funds in the Law School and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                     _._.      0       106,444
James B. Griswold, Cleveland, Ohio
for unrestricted capital gifts in the Law School and College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts _ _____....__5.....__....5,000
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School _..443,968
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Los Angeles, California
for the Humanities Challenge Grant Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts -_                             _._        __._....65,000
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School......      30,000
Jack E. Hill, Jackson
100 shares of Kellogg Company common stock for the Medical School............_.7,131
Hoescht Celanese Corporation, Somerville, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School.__..__.12,500
Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy __   _..20,000
Hospital & Health Services Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit __5,000
Frederick G. L. Huetwell, Detroit
for the Medical School, Disabled Student Services, Shady Trails Building Fund,
and the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Scholarship _..50,312
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for multicomputer research in the College of Engineering  -.17,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for the IBM Fellowship in the College of Engineering __......17,107


138




November Meeting, 1992


Marjorie M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
for the Elizabeth Charlotte Mullin-Welch Lectureship, Center for the
Education of Women _... .5,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School -_.                    ------......... 8,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts._..7.27,000
Irving B. Kahn Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Alan Raywid Fund in the Law School....-......   5,000
Kidney Foundation of Canada, Montreal, Quebec
for research in the Medical School.......18,719
Rose Koslowski Estate
for research in the Medical School............................................................9,937
Lee E. Landes, Livonia
400 shares of Southern Company common stock for the George Michael Landes
Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 15,126
L. Bates Lea, Glenview, Illinois
6,000 shares of various corporate common stocks for the L. Bates Lea Visiting
Professorship in the Law School -        a                 _   _.-..-  180,750
Lee Foundation, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
for unrestricted support of the School of Music........ .............. 10,500
Leeman Labs, Inc., Lowell, Massachusetts
for Laser Mass Spectrometry Research, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...7,840
Wilford L. L'Esperance Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan..                   16,695
Leukemia Research Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.......,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Luce Fellowship Program in the Center for the Education of Women --..-..5..0,000
Joseph E. Lunghamer, Bloomfield Hills
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics  -........ ....... 5,888
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School...... ---...................................7,500
Martin Marietta Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for employee matching gifts._.__...77,300
George A. Mathewson, Fayetteville, New York
100 shares of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company common stock
for unrestricted support of the Law School __.__                              ..10,131
Sydney L. Mayer, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Mayer-Oriel Exchange Program in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts _                                                 6.5,500
James V. McConnell Estate
for the James V. McConnell Fund in Psychology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..__...12,568
Julian G. McIntosh, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the School of Music..10,000
William L. McKinley, Fremont
300 shares of Gerber Products Company common stock for unrestricted support
of the Law School and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.. -  10,406
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Stanley E. Dimond Scholarship in the School of Business Administration
and the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics __ _25,775
McKinley Commercial, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics -..6  05,000
McKinley Properties, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics -5,000
McKinley Realty, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics -5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering               53,000
Minority Plas., Inc., Detroit
for the Building Fund in the School of Social Work -..5,000
Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corporation, Tokyo, Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center, School of Business Administration..35,000


139




November Meeting, 1992


Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for research in the Transportation Research Institute _................200,126
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School    a         nO _.......9,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School._...........                              7,500
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Continuing Education Fund in the School of Dentistry.      -    6,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research in the Medical School......39,792
William Charles Parkinson Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Canham Natatorium in the Department of Athletics _................,000
Peninsula Productions, Inc., Ann Arbor
for musical theatre and other support in the School of Music.............. 7,500
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the College of Engineering __.  -.-........................... 10,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment _...................0,000
Pont Living Trust, Castro Valley, California
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School.................0,000
John W. Porter Trust
for unrestricted support of the Law School.................................................................. 10,000
Mary Louise Pressler Estate
for the Mary Louise Pressler Fund in the Martha Cook Building............................................... 25,000
Ward L. Quaal, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...................20,000
Leonard Rand, Moreland Hills, Ohio
300 shares of Sensormatic Electronics Corporation common stock for the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts _.7,894
Ride for Kids Foundation, Inc., Doraville, Georgia
for pediatric brain tumor research in the Medical School _........................9,353
Hugh Rumler Estate
for a student award in the College of Engineering..............................66,500
Schwarz Pharma, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the Medical School..............6,000
Rudy A. Salvette Trust, Bloomfield Hills
for the School of Business Administration..5,0              0   0
Mary A. Scheele, Walnut Creek, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School...5,000
Scripps Howard Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment....10,000
Shell Development Company Division, Houston, Texas
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts __10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Company Funds and other support in the Colleges of Engineering and
Literature, Science, and the Arts _.......30,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for the Athletic Bands Fund in the School of Music __..__....25,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art....10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _..._ 42,400
Betty McDonald Smith Trust
for research in the Medical School ___65,000
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts -___....84,000
Nels P. Sorensen, Sr., Trust
for the Nels P. Sorensen Fund and other support in the School of Dentistry _.1 14,470
Spence Brothers, Saginaw
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...... 6.5,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education _....7,400
Stephen A. Stone, Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..__..3,.35,000


140




November Meeting, 1992


TSG Ventures, Inc., New York, New York
for the Alfred L. Edwards Collegiate Professorship and other support in the
School of Business Administration _.............................10,000
Kyuichi Tanikawa, Kurume, Japan
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School.......................,000
Joseph F. Tetlak, Bratenahl, Ohio
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..............5,000
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for research in the School of Public Health..,000
Trust for Mutual Understanding, New York, New York
for support of the Museum of Art............... 11,000
David Ulrich, Ann Arbor
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration..................................... 10,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..........................  6,226
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Birmingham, Bloomfield Hills
for the Birmingham Alumnae Club Scholarship in the Alumni Association..........................,500
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for the Ann Arbor University of Michigan Club Scholarship Fund..........   6,000
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida Memorial Medical Scholarship in the Medical School 5..........35,000
Mary Ann Walgreen Trust
for the Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professorship in the College of Pharmacy......... -...._. 1,400,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 9,800
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for the College of Pharmacy and the School of Public Health  _.........................17,131
Robert I. Wishnick Foundation, New York, New York
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.......... __._.............       5,00
Wolverine Mutual Insurance, Dowagiac
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.................. 25,000
Ernest A. H. Woodman, Ann Arbor
for the Professor Ernest A. H. Woodman Scholarship in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment......................15,000
The following nonmonetaxy gifts-in-kind were received:
Communications Systems Group, Oak Park
a 3 VTR A/B Roll System for the Program in Film and Video Studies
Thomas B. and Sue Darnton, Ann Arbor
a fiberglass recreational rowing shell with oars and spare parts for Camp Michigania
Barry I. Fredericks, WoodCliff Lake, New Jersey
five framed newspapers with political cartoons dated 1869 through 1876 for the Law School
Jim and Alice M. Orr, Gallipolis, Ohio
a sunfish sailboat and sails and a boat trailer with tarpaulin for Camp Michigania
Jarrold and Elizabeth Patterson, Royal Oak
a fourteen foot Hobie Cat catamarran with accessories and trailer for Camp Michigania
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value, were received from the
following donors:
E. Jack Aweazey, Chandler, Arizona       Lung-fei Lee, Ann Arbor
Robin Barlow, Ann Arbor                  Jeffrey K. MacKie-Mason, Ann Arbor
Theodore C. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor         Valerie D. Meyer, Ann Arbor
Charles C. Brown, Ann Arbor              Lawrence B. Mohr, Ann Arbor
John R. Chamberlin, Ann Arbor             Paul F. Nowak, Ann Arbor
Michael D. Cohen, Ann Arbor              Richard C. Porter, Ann Arbor
Paul N. Courant, Ann Arbor               E. Wayne Say, Ann Arbor
Thomas F. Crandell, Ann Arbor            Matthew D. Shapiro, Ann Arbor
Alan V. Deardorff, Ann Arbor             Mark A. Sikora, Ann Arbor
Nancy J. Grand, Bloomfield Hills          Carl P. Simon, Ann Arbor
Miles Kimball, Ann Arbor                  Joel B. Slemrod, Ann Arbor
Jan Kmenta, Ann Arbor                     Charles Steedman, Ann Arbor


141




November Meeting, 1992


Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor            Thomas E. Weisskopf, Ann Arbor
Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor        Michelle J. White, Ann Arbor
William J. Thomson, Ann Arbor         John T. White III, Ann Arbor
Hal R. Varian, Ann Arbor              Marina Whitman, Ann Arbor
Janet A. Weiss, Ann Arbor             Sharon Williams, Royal Oak
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective January 4, 1993
James C. Renick, Ph.D., Professor of Education and Public Administration, School of Education,
and Chancellor, UM-Dearborn, five-year term
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
Sister Barbara Cervenka, Assistant Dean, School of Art, appointment extended, one-year term,
July 1, 1993
Robert N. Grosse, Professor Emeritus of Population Planning and International Health,
Professor Emeritus of Health Planning, and Professor Emeritus of Urban, Technological,
and Environmental Planning, reappointed to active status, fall term 1992
Joseph E. Hawkins Jr., Professor Emeritus in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology
(Physiological Acoustics), reappointed to active status, one-year term
Eugene M. Pijanowski, Professor of Art and Associate Dean for Student Relations, School of Art,
reappointed Associate Dean for Student Relations, one-year term, July 1, 1993
The following committee appointments were approved:
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Lynn Chia, student representative, to complete the term ending June 30, 1993
Colleen Lenon, student representative, to complete the term ending June 30, 1993
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Elizabeth A Allen, to complete the term ending June 30, 1993, vice Cornelia Porter, resigned
Harvey C. Fruehauf Professorship in Business Administration The
Regents approved the establishment of the Harvey C. Fruehauf Professorship in
Business Administration, effective December 1, 1992.
Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors The Regents approved
the appointment of Marge Piercy as the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in
Honors for the months of October and November, 1992.


142




November Meeting, 1992


Richard C. Schneider Professor of Neurosurgery. The Regents approved the appointment of Julian T. Hoff as the Richard C. Schneider Professor
of Neurosurgery for a five-year term, effective November 20, 1992.
Gardner Quarton Professorship in Neurosciences in the Mental
Health Research Institute, Department of Psychiatry. The Regents approved establishment of the Gardner Quarton Professorship in Neurosciences in
the Mental Health Research Institute, Department of Psychiatry, effective November 20, 1992.
Theophile Raphael Collegiate Professorship in Neurosciences in
the Mental Health Research Institute, Department of Psychiatry. The
Regents approved the establishment of the Theophile Raphael Collegiate Professorship in Neurosciences in the Mental Health Research Institute, Department of
Psychiatry, effective November 20, 1992.
University Registrar. The Regents approved the appointment of Laura
McCain Patterson as the University Registrar for a five-year and three-month
term, effective April 1, 1993.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Richard M. Frankel, M.S., Lecturer in Accounting, November 1, 1992
School of Dentistry
Thomas R. Gebeck, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Jeri K Gonta, B.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Julie L. Edelson, B.S., Lecturer II in Communication
Dalia Hertz, MA, Lecturer I in Hebrew Language
Toby E. Jayaratne, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology
Denise M. Montcalm, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, January 1, 1993
Sandra Nagel-Leiby, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, January 1, 1993
Suzanne L. Parker, MA, Lecturer I in Communication
Karine L. Richard, Licence, Lecturer II in French
Yoriko Urabe, BA, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures
Lori J. Williams, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics
Medical School
Gregory M. Christman, M.D., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, October 1, 1992
Scott B. Mulrooney, Ph.D., Lecturer in Biological Chemistry
Bonnie J. Sowa, MD., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Anna M. Uitvlugt, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, October 1, 1992
School of Natural Reurces and Environment
Dorceta E. Taylor, PhD., Assistant Professor of Environmental Sociology, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts


143




November Meeting, 1992


CHANGE TO
ADMISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
UM-Flint School of Management
Peter Carayannopoulos, Assistant Professor of Finance, September 1, 1992 (previously reported
as Lecturer in Finance)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Jacquelin V. Burns-Robertson, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Dentistry
Law School
Joseph Weiler, from Professor of Law, with tenure, to Visiting Professor of Law
College of Literature. Sciee, and the Arts
N. Frank Ukadike, from Lecturer in Film and Video Studies and Afroamerican and African
Studies to Lecturer in Film and Video Studies and Assistant Professor of Communication
and Afroamerican and African Studies
Medical School
Linda M. Selwa, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, October 1, 1992
UM-Dearborn Colleee ofArts, Sciences, and Letters
Sharon K. Jablonski, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Sociology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Eduation
Valerie E. Lee, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Coege of Enineering
Roman D. Hryciw, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1993
David Y. Hughes, Professor of Humanities, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
David E. Kieras, Associate Professor of Technical Communications, with tenure, Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, Associate
Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, and Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Yoram Koren, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Costas Kravaris, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1993
John E. Laird, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
Andrzej S. Nowak, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Bernhard O. Palsson, George Granger Brown Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
Bram Van Leer, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 1993


144




November Meeting, 1992


James O. Wilkes, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Anthony C. Woo, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, without tenure,
and Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Edna A Coffin, Professor of Modern Hebrew, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993
James M. Kister, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 -May 31,1993
David E. Meyer, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Kaori K Ohara, Lecturer III in Asian Languages and Cultures, extended sick leave,
September 22-October 28, 1992
Medical School
Henry D. Appelman, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1992
Daniel G. Green, Professor of Physiological Optics, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1993
H. Barton Grossman, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1992
Kathleen P. Heidelberger, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -June 30, 1993
Miriam H. Meisler, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-February 28, 1993
Ellen L. Mozurkewich, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, leave without salary,
September 24, 1992-January 3, 1993
Martin L. Norton, Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Anesthesiology, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure, retirement furlough,
July 1, 1992June 30, 1994
UM-Dearborn Collee of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Robert A Fakler, Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-April 30, 1993
John F. Fink, Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1992
UM-Dearborn School of Engineerin
Murray H. Miller, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, with tenure,
and Interim Chair, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1993
Syed Murtuza, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1992
UM-Flint Colege of Arts and Sciences
Theodore T. Curtis, Assistant Professor of Sociology, retirement furlough, January 1, 1993 -May 31,1994
Richard Hill-Rowley, Associate Professor of Resource and Community Sciences, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1992-May 31, 1993
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Music
Martha J. Shell, Associate Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, cancellation of sabbatical
leave (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1993)


145




November Meeting, 1992


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Sheree L. Duff, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1992
Anna K. Hoffman, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30,1992
School of Edution
Garry R. Walz, Professor of Education, with tenure, December 31, 1992
CoUege of Enineerng
Harm Buning, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, May 31, 1992
Collee of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Hans Joachim R. Dobele, Lecturer in Film and Video Studies, May 31,1992
Hannelore K. Dobele-Kober, Lecturer in Film and Video Studies, May 31, 1992
Hiroko Goto, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, August 31, 1992
Jeffrey L. Thunder, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, December 31, 1992
Medical School
Daniel T. Barry, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, June 30, 1992
Annette M. Bernard, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, September 8, 1992
Vicki M. Eng, Lecturer in Laboratory Animal Medicine, September 30, 1992
William J. Horvath, Professor Emeritus of Health Systems, September 30,1992
Kwang Hwang, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, September 30, 1992
Paul R. Knight, Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, September 30, 1992
David R. Mehr, Instructor in Family Practice, August 17, 1992
Susan Miesfeldt, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, September 30, 1992
Genevieve Moineau, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 31, 1992
James H. Morse, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, September 30, 1992
Peter G. Traber, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, September 6,1992
Gary D. Wu, Instructor in Internal Medicine, September 14, 1992
CANCELLATION OF TERMINATION
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Schol of Dentistry
Thomas D. Pappert, Lecturer in Dentistry, cancellation of termination (previously reported as
June 30, 1992)
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the following retirement memoirs:
Rose M. Rizki research scientist in the Department of Biology, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 1992, following 30 years of service at the
University of Michigan.
Ms. Rizki received her B.A degree from Seton Hill College in 1948, and her
M.A degree from Columbia University in 1949. She held research and teaching
appointments at the American Museum of Natural History, Columbia University, and Reed College before coming to the University of Michigan as a research
associate in 1962. She was appointed assistant research scientist in 1974, associate research scientist in 1976, and research scientist in 1977.
Her research, much of it undertaken jointly with Tahir M. Rizki, has
embraced a wide variety of topics concerned with the genetics, development,


146




November Meeting, 1992


physiology, and molecular and cellular biology of the celebrated "fruit fly,"
Drosophila, and has been widely disseminated in 68 publications. Ms. Rizki's
contributions have also extended to graduate education; many Ph.D. dissertations and publications have acknowledged her assistance. It is no exaggeration to
say that the longevity and continuing importance of Drosophila as a pre-eminent
experimental system derives in no small measure from her scientific studies and
from comparable studies elsewhere. Over the years, her studies have been supported by the National Science Foundation.
Ms. Rizki's studies of Drosophila include a long series of studies (jointly
with T. M. Rizki) on special attributes of hemocytes (blood cells). She has also investigated the consequences in Drosophila of various chemical agents known to
affect nucleic acid synthesis and modify growth; these agents were early precursors of current chemotherapeutic agents directed against cancers. Indeed, several
of her studies have been published in the premier journal, Cancer Research. In
other joint work, she has studied the role of hemocytes in relation to tumor
growth and in biological defense mechanisms of Drosophila. During the past decade, Ms. Rizki has focused on the cell biology underlying defense reactions of
Drosophila to parasites and to virus-like agents that act through their effect on
the cytoskeleton.
In recognition of her many contributions to the Department of Biology and
the University community, the Regents now name Rose M. Rizki Research Scientist Emeritus.
Garry R. Walz, professor of education, will retire from active faculty status
on December 31, 1992, after 31 years of service at the University of Michigan.
Professor Walz received his B.A degree in 1949, his M.A degree in 1950,
and his Ph.D. degree in 1958, all from the University of Minnesota He served on
the faculties of North Dakota State University from 1958-60, and Illinois State
University from 1960-61. In 1961, he joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan as an assistant professor, he was promoted to associate professor in
1964 and professor in 1969. Professor Walz was named director of the ERIC
Clearinghouse on Counseling and Personnel Services in the School of Education
in 1966.
In the School of Education, Professor Walz taught courses in guidance and
counseling, research design methods, and human resource development; he also
worked extensively with graduate students on their doctoral research. Since
1966, his work has centered on the ERIC Clearinghouse on Counseling and Personnel Services, funded by the U.S. Department of Education. In directing this
large project, he served as editor-in-chief of the publication program, represented
the clearinghouse at conferences and conventions around the world, and assisted
faculty and students in the School of Education in using the ERIC system to improve their research.
During his career, Professor Walz was very active in professional organizations: he served as trustee and chair-elect of the American Foundation for
Counseling and Development from 1989-92; chair of the OERI Task Force on
ERIC and the Future from 1988-89; president of the American Personnel and
Guidance Association from 1971-72; and president of the Association for Counselor Education and Supervision from 1966-67. Professor Walz also published


147




November Meeting, 1992


extensively in such publications as the Journal of Career Planning and Employment, the Journal of Counseling and Development and the Personnel and Guidance Journal. He received the Distinguished Scholar Award from Chi Sigma Iota
in 1988 and the Kathleen and Gilbert Wrenn Humanitarian Award from the
American Association for Counseling and Development in 1984.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Garry R.
Walz Professor Emeritus of Education.
Memorial Statements
Provost Whitaker reported the death of Professor Shien-Ming ("Sam") Wu.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following memorial statement:
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the death on October 28, 1992, of Shien-Ming Wu, the J. Reid and Polly
Anderson Professor of Manufacturing Technology. Professor Wu was a faculty
member of the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
and director of the National Science Foundation's Industry/University Cooperative Research Center on Mechanical and Optical Coordinate Measuring Machines
at the University of Michigan. He was also a fellow of the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers and the Society of Manufacturing Engineers, and a member of Academia Sinica
Born in Chekiang, China, on October 28, 1924, Professor Wu received his
B.S. degree from Chiao-Tung University in Shanghai in 1945, his M.B.A degree
from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania in 1956, and his B.S.
and Ph.D. degrees in mechanical engineering from the University of Wisconsin
in 1958 and 1962, respectively. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1987 after serving 30 years on the faculty of the University of Wisconsin
in Madison.
During his career, Professor Wu supervised 113 doctoral students in manufacturing engineering, many from China Almost one-quarter of the current active U.S. faculty in manufacturing engineering worked under him or one of his
students. In December 1991, Professor Wu received the Chiang Technology
Achievement Award from the Chiang Industrial Charity Foundation in Hong
Kong, which carried a $100,000 cash award that he donated to the University of
Michigan College of Engineering. In October 1992, he received the University of
Michigan Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award.
Professor Wu was the first to introduce advanced statistical techniques to
manufacturing research and application. His methodology, which uses a mathematical description of complex manufacturing processes and on-line system data
to provide diagnostics and quality control, is used by the manufacturing industry
worldwide, particularly by U.S. automotive manufacturers. Professor Wu has
been an inspiration for several generations of manufacturing engineers with his
gentle but firm guidance of many young minds.
As we mourn the loss of this great scholar and teacher, our condolences go
to his wife, Daisy Te-Hsien Tsui Wu, and his daughter and son-in-law, Elaine
and John Stephenson.


148




November Meeting, 1992


Degrees
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
took the following actions with respect to degrees:
They approved final degree lists for the May and August, 1992 commencements, changes to previously approved degree lists, and recommendations for
doctoral degrees for the December 1992 commencement.
Henry Russel Lecturer
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of John H. Holland, professor of electrical engineering and computer science in the College of Engineering, and professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, as the Henry
Russel Lecturer for 1993.
University of Michigan 1992 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules
for the Year Ended June 30, 1992
The Regents received the University of Michigan 1992 Financial Report
Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1992.
Six Month Report on University Audits
The Regents received the Six Month Report on University Audits for the period April 1 through September 30, 1992. Mr. Carl Smith, Director of University
Audits, pointed out that among the audits conducted were complete reviews of
President Duderstadt's and Vice President Womack's travel expenses and
charges on the president's corporate Visa card for Inglis House and President's
House expenses. He noted also that audits are also regularly conducted of the
travel expenses of all other senior officers of the University. Regent Power noted
for the record that these procedures ensure that public funds are being properly
spent by senior leaders of the University.
International Bond Investments
Vice President Womack stated that the Regents were being asked for the authority to invest University Investment Pool funds in the Common Fund's Global Bond Fund. The purpose of this investment is to diversify the University's
investments and reduce risk.
Following some discussion, Regent Power moved that the University Investment Pool guidelines for fixed income investments be amended as follows:
The following types of fixed income investments are eligible for
purchase by any fund:
* The Common Fund Short Term Fund, Intermediate Cash
Fund, and Global Bond Fund.
Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.


149




November Meeting, 1992


Reorganization Investment
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $5 million of the University Endowment
Fund to Restart Partners IV, L.P., pending the general counsel's review of the
partnership agreement
Venture Capital Investment
Regent Nielsen moved that $4 million of the University Endowment Fund
be committed to Advent VII, L.P. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Industrial Technology Institute (ITI)
Vice President Womack stated that this request is being made to help the
Industrial Technology Institute with some working capital needs. He reviewed
ITI's relationship with the University and noted that the request is being made
due to a provision in the Institute's lease of its building that it cannot mortgage
its interest in the lease, the leased premises, or its building without the University's prior written approval (see action request).
Following some discussion, Regent Baker moved that the vice president and
chief financial officer be authorized to approve in writing the institute's request
to obtain financing for its operations using, to the extent requested, its interest
in the facility and the leasehold as collateral, provided the terms and amount of
the financing are satisfactory to the University and they permit all of the material terms and provisions of the lease dated March 1, 1985, to remain intact. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Stadium Boulevard Easement
This is a request for the University to grant to G.T. Products an easement
for ingress and egress from the public roadway connecting Boulevard Drive and
Stadium Boulevard to the southwest corner of the property at 401 E. Stadium.
Regent Nielsen observed that by granting the easement, the University
would be enhancing the value of the property. He suggested that the easement
grant be tied to an option for a sum certain or some other formula process by
which the University can acquire the property, which would be more favorable
than the University's existing right of first refusal Vice President Womack
pointed out that it is in the University's interest to be cooperative in granting the
easement, since the company can obtain it in any case. Regent Smith suggested
granting a conditional easement to G.T. Products that would not be turned over
to the next owner, unless that owner is the University.
Regent Nielsen proposed that the University get some kind of option price
or a better option formula price for the acquisition as opposed to just matching
whatever offer there is. Further discussion followed about other options for
granting the easement. Regent Nielsen moved to approve the grant of the
easement, conditioned upon Vice President Womack's obtaining an option to


150




November Meeting, 1992


purchase the principal for a sum certain by a time certain. Regent McFee
seconded the motion. The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved,
with Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Smith, and Waters in favor and Regent Power opposed. Regent Power stated that his opposition was based on the
motion's being micromanagement.
Engineering Center in the College of Engineering
Vice President Womack called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, to describe this project, to be located among the College of Engineering facilities on
North Campus. Mr. Mayer gave a presentation illustrating the site and the programmatic elements of the proposed building. Following the presentation, Regent Smith moved approval of the project and site as described, and
authorization for the appointment of Moore-Anderson of Austin, Texas, and
Hobbs and Black of Ann Arbor as architects for the project. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Undergraduate Library Addition and Renovations
Mr. Mayer gave a presentation describing plans for an addition and building
renovations for the Undergraduate Library. Following the presentation, Regent
Brown moved the following. approval of the design of the addition and proceeding with the addition and building renovations as funding is identified, and authorization for soliciting bids and awarding a construction contract to the
successful bidder, providing the contract values are within the approved budget.
Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Central Power Plant and North Campus Electrical Expansions
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved central power plant electrical expansion and North Campus electrical expansion, as described in the Regents Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) Kelsey Museum
renovations; 2) Cooling tower replacements in several campus buildings; 3) Parking Services 1993 annual maintenance program; and 4) University of Michigan
Hospitals Mott elevator controller upgrade.
Proposed Subcontract between the University of Michigan and Columbia University
Regent Nielsen moved, Regent Power seconded, and all seven Regents present unanimously approved a research subcontract between the University of
Michigan and Columbia University, to be conducted as part of a grant to the University of Michigan for the project "M.D./Family Partnership: Education in
Asthma Management." Because the principal investigator of the project, Noreen
M. Clark, is both a faculty member at the University of Michigan and an adjunct
faculty member at Columbia University, this arrangement falls under the state of


151




November Meeting, 1992


Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the subcontract will be Columbia University and the Regents of the
University of Michigan.
2.  The subcontract will obligate Columbia University to complete a portion of the
research project. The initial subcontract will cover work through August 31,
1993, and be in the amount of $139,772. It is expected that the agreement will
be continued for an additional four years, at comparable funding levels, subject
to continued funding from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. The
specific scope of work and detailed budget will be set forth in the subcontract.
3.  Professor Clark does not and will not receive a salary or other pecuniary benefit
from Columbia University during the life of the project.
Wolverine Tower
Vice President Womack reviewed this request for authorization to purchase
and renovate the Wolverine Tower, located on the southeast corner of State
Street and Eisenhower Parkway. The building would reduce rental costs, and
would provide space for units being displaced during renovation projects, and for
other offices, with the ultimate goal of Wolverine Tower's becoming the administrative services center for the University. (Regent Varner arrived at the meeting
at this point, at 2:50 p.m.)
Vice President Womack noted that this is an opportunity to acquire a substantial amount of square footage at a favorable price, which amounts to about
$70 per square foot, including purchase price and renovation cost, compared to
$135-$150 per square foot to construct a comparable facility. Regent Brown
pointed out that the $70 price includes land, while the $135-$150 does not.
Regent Baker stated that he was not enthusiastic about this acquisition because it is an old building with an outdated elevator and other systems, a poor
layout, and an exterior skin of corten steel that is worn and will need to be replaced. He noted that substantial investments will have to be made to meet the
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Regent Baker suggested
that the University could construct a building to its own specifications on land it
already owns, for a figure comparable to the $70 per square foot cost of the Wolverine Tower.
Regent Baker said that he agrees that the University needs an office building, but it would be better served by one specifically designed to accommodate its
needs. He suggested as another alternative the 777 office building across the
street from the Wolverine Tower, which is currently in foreclosure.
In response to a question by Regent Smith about whether there were plans
to make the building more attractive, Mr. Paul Spradlin, director of plant
extension, stated that the corten steel, which gives the building a poor
appearance, will be cleaned at a price of $65,000. He said that this should improve the appearance for 15-20 years.
Regent Smith noted her understanding that land purchased on State Street
was to be used for expansion opportunities, and that this building is very


152




November Meeting, 1992


isolated, with no continuity with the rest of the University. She asked what the
opinion of Johnson, Johnson & Roy/inc. was about this acquisition.
Vice President Womack read the text of a letter from JJR, dated November
4, 1992, regarding the proposed purchase of the Wolverine Tower. The letter concluded with a statement that it supports the proposal to acquire the property,
with the expectation that it will be used to consolidate administrative and support functions.
In response to a question from Regent Nielsen, Vice President Womack
stated that the property was assessed at $5 million, which yields $316,000 per
year in taxes. He noted that since 1957, the University had acquired property
with a total state equalized value (SEV) of $7.9 million, while it had sold, and
thus returned to the tax rolls, property with an SEV totaling $51.7 million during that time.
In response to questions about the amount of space the University is renting in Ann Arbor, Vice President Womack stated that the University does not intend to ever stop renting property; however, it does seek to take advantage of
opportunities to reduce costs by not expanding rental space.
Regent Smith asked the total amount of rental income that will accrue from
Wolverine Tower. Vice President Womack commented that the intent is to eliminate tenants so the University can use the entire building.
Regent Baker stated that the University had an obligation to look at the
property on State Street as a place to build an office building specifically designed
for its own uses, and to investigate purchase of the building across the street. For
these reasons, he cannot support the recommendation.
Regent Brown pointed out that the Wolverine Tower had been designed to
be used as an office building and that was what the University was planning to
use it for.
There being no further discussion, Regent Power moved approval of the acquisition of the Wolverine Tower at a price of $9.0 million, and authorization of
renovations for $6.5 million, for a total project cost of $15.5 million, with funding
provided as described in the Regents Communication. Regent Nielsen seconded
the motion, and it was approved, with Regents Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power,
Varner, and Waters in favor and Regents Baker and Smith opposed.
Capital Outlay Request, 1993-94, All Campuses
Vice President Womack reported that the state has indicated its intention to
sell bonds to support a Higher Education Capital Outlay Bill for Fiscal Year
1994. The Integrated Technology Instruction Center (ITIC) will be one of the
two major projects to be funded in this way. For the other, the University intends
to combine four long-standing building renewal requests (West Engineering
Building, C.C. Little Building, Angell Hall, and Frieze Building) into a single,
multi-year, Central Campus Renovation Project with an estimated cost of
$58,500,000.


153




November Meeting, 1992


Following some discussion, the Regents approved the 1993-94 Capital Outlay Request, with Regent Baker abstaining.
Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds
Vice President Womack commented that this is a request for authority to
adopt a resolution to secure financing in the amount of $78,463,000, with a bond
issue size of approximately $81 million, to finance the following projects: the
Francis Willson Thompson Library and Central Energy Plant Utility Distribution Expansion on the Flint campus, and on the Ann Arbor campus, the East
Engineering renovation, Randall Laboratory addition, Undergraduate Library
expansion, administrative office support (authorized in May), Undergraduate Library renovation, and utility projects.
Regent Nielsen moved that the Regents adopt a resolution that authorizes
the vice president and chief financial officer to: 1) develop the terms and legal
documentation for the bonds, and to prepare, circulate, and execute preliminary
and final official statements describing the bonds, the University and its affairs;
2) apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's
Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and 3) publish a notice of sale, receive
bids, award the bonds to the winning bidder, execute an order establishing the
terms of bonds, and execute an order establishing the terms of bonds, and execute and deliver bonds. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Smith stated that she would not support the motion because it included funding for the Wolverine Tower. Following some discussion about the
calculations of student fees used to compute debt service coverage, the vote was
taken, and the motion carried, with Regents Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power,
Vamer, and Waters in favor and Regents Baker and Smith opposed. The text of
the resolution can be found in Appendix A (page 161).
Revisions to Bylaws of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive
Board and Amendments to Regents' Bylaw Sections 11.151, 11.151A,
11.151B Concerning the UM Hospitals Executive Board and Public Advisory Board
The Regents were informed about amendments being made to the bylaws of
the UM Hospitals Executive Board to comply with the Joint Commission on the
Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations standards. There are several revisions
necessary to the Regents' Bylaws as a result of these revisions. On a motion by
Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents unanimously approved
the following changes to Regents' Bylaws, pending completion of the University's
bylaws revision procedure: deletion of section 11.151B (Public Advisory Board),
deletion of the phrase in section 11.151A which provides that the Executive
Board "shall review and approve fees charged under the Medical Service Plan,"
and addition of the president as a member of the executive board in Section
11.151. The revised bylaws, to take effect following completion of the formal procedure for bylaws revision, will read as follows:


154




November Meeting, 1992


Sec. 11.151. The University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
There shall be an executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals composed of the president, the dean of the Medical School; the dean of the School of Nursing; the provost and vice president for academic affairs; the vice president and chief
financial officer; the vice president for government relations; the vice president for development; the vice provost for medical affairs, the chief of clinical affairs of the University of Michigan Hospitals, the executive director of the University of Michigan
Hospitals; the chief of nursing affairs of the University of Michigan Hospitals, the assistant dean for clinical affairs, School of Nursing; and two nominees from the medical/dental staff of the University of Michigan Hospitals.
The chair shall be named by the president and the Board of Regents.
The nominees of the medical/dental staff will be appointed by the Board of Regents on recommendation by the president and will serve four-year terms, so staggered
to provide one replacement each two years.
Sec. 11.151A. The University of Michigan       Hospitals Executive Board.
Powers and Duties
The Board of Regents is responsible for establishing the emission, goals, and objectives of the University of Michigan Hospitals as set out in Sec. 11.15 and for the
quality of medical care services provided, approval of all mnjor programs and operating budgets, including level of expenditures and rates to be charged, the approval of
capital and facility plans; appointment and delineation of hospital privileges for medical/dental staff members; and appointment of the executive director of the University of
Michigan Hospitals.
In all of the above matters, the executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals is expected to make recommendations to the president and the Board of Regents.
The executive board of the University of Michigan Hospitals is itself charged
with responsibility and empowered to establish programs, services, and administrative
units to meet the goals and objectives of the University of Michigan Hospitals; to review
and approve medical/dental staff bylaws, rules, and regulations governing medical
care rendered;, to review and approve the internal organizational structure of the University of Michigan Hospitals; to determine appropriate delegation of authority to the
executive director of the University of Michigan Hospitals within the system of general
University administration; to insure fulfillment of external requirements for Hospitals'
management; to review and approve Hospitals' sponsored training programs; to review
and approve appropriate use of the University of Michigan Hospitals for clinical,
educational, and training experience by various health schools of the University; and to
take such steps as are needed to insure periodic evaluation of Hospitals' operations to
assure that goals and objectives are achieved.
In carrying out the above delegated powers, the executive board of the University
of Michigan Hospitals will submit periodic reports to the president and the Board of
Regents. The executive board shall submit its minutes to members of the Board of Regents.
Americans with Disabilities Act
Regent Baker requested that the Regents receive an estimate of the cost to
the University of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1992.


155




November Meeting, 1992


Establishment of Master of Science in Technical Information Design
and Management Degree
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of a new degree entitled "Master of Science
in Technical Information Design and Management," to be granted upon the recommendation of the faculty in the Technical Communication Program in the
College of Engineering.
Medical Staff Appointments
On the recommendation of the UM Hospitals Executive Board, Regent Baker moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, several appointments to medical staff membership.
There followed a five-minute break at 3:00 P.M., after which the Regents
met in executive session. The public meeting reconvened at 4:05 P.M. in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union to hear public comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: David Schwartz, Robert Van Houweling, Brian Kight, and Amy Ellis,
students, on the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities; Jean King
and Jonathan Rose, citizens, on the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities; Eve M. Brosco, former staff, on the reduction in force policy; James A.
Shields, citizen, on MSA/student rights/my constituency; Laura Martin, member
of Citizens for Safe Waste Disposal, on the North Campus radioactive waste incinerator, and Adam DeVore, student, on implicit education and the road to serfdom.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
The meeting reconvened in the Regents' Room at 5:05 P.M. Vice President
Hartford distributed an amended version of the statement, reflecting comments
made at the Regents' Meeting earlier that day.
President Duderstadt stated that the officers were recommending rescinding the March 1973 Rules of the University Community and the October 1979
University Judicial System, and replacing these, effective January 1, 1993, with
the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities as an interim policy. The
interim policy would come back to the Regents for re-evaluation at the February
1994 meeting, leaving a period of one year for the interim policy to be in place.
Regent McFee moved approval of the recommendation as stated by President Duderstadt. Regent Power seconded the motion. Regent McFee requested
that the Regents receive an evaluation at least quarterly during the one-year interim period, which would apprise the Regents of any changes proposed as the
policy is being implemented.
Regent Baker moved to amend the motion to include the fifteen suggested
changes set forth in his prepared remarks:


156




November Meeting, 1992


1.   Preamble, page 1, para 1, line 3, add the word "unlimited" after the words
"...opinion, and...".
2.   Preamble, page 1, para 3, line 6, fully describe "...unacceptable student
behavior...".
3.   Preamble, page 1, para 4, line 4, fully describe "... set of fundamental and
ethical standards (line 2)..."
4.   Section I: Scope of the Statement, page 1, para. 3, line 3, add the sentence,
"However, other students who are injured or damaged by the actions of
non-violent student demonstrators may bring appropriate actions under this
code."
5.   Section I: Scope of the Statement, page 1, para 4, line 3, add "However, the
accused student will not be required to prove the speech used meets the First
Amendment test" after the words "...First Amendment...".
6.   Section I: Scope of the Statement, page 1, para 5. Appears to give the
University the right to censor the words used in student newspapers such as the
Michigan Daily or the Michigan Review if the writer is considered to be writing
beyond "...the scope of their journalistic responsibilities...". Rewrite the
paragraph to allow true freedom of the press.
7.   Section III, Students' Rights and the University's Responsibilities, page 2, para
2, line 7, add the sentence, "It is not the University's purpose to change the
behavior or denigrate the ethics, mores, values and religious beliefs of its
students." after the words "...right to others...".
8.   Section III, Students' Rights and the University's Responsibilities, page 2, para
2, line 3, add the words "including right to counsel, cross examination, rules of
evidence and transcript of the testimony" after the words "...due process
protections...".
9.   Section III: Students' Rights and the University's Responsibilities, page 2, Item
C, para. 1, should be rewritten to conform with the rewritten # 6 speaking
directly to the Michigan Daily's and the Michigan Review's editorial freedom.
10. Section IV: Students' Responsibilities, page 3, item A, para 1, line 3, add
"pedophilia, sadomasochism, incest, and gross indecency" after the words
"...sexual assault and rape...".
11. Section IV, Students' Responsibilities, page 4, Item B, Actions Off Campus,
delete entire Item B.
12. Procedures for responding to violation of these standards, page 5, item I,
Purposes of the Procedures, para 1, line 1. This is vague and does not define
"standards"; there is no penalty for false accusation."
13. IV. Mediation, page 6, para 2, line 8. Add the words "Religious Advisors" after
the phrase "...schools and colleges...".
14. X Amendments, Item A, Proposal, page 10, para 1, line 3, change "500
currently enrolled students" to "100 currently enrolled students" after the
words "...signed by...".
15. Add to the document the following: "The request of any student for a change of
roommate will not be a cause of action under this code."
Regent Smith seconded the motion. Regent Brown suggested that counsel
review Regent Baker's recommendations, along with other recommendations.
The vote was taken on Regent Baker's amendment, and it failed, with Regents


157




November Meeting, 1992


Baker and Smith in favor and Regents Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Varner,
and Waters opposed.
Discussion then turned to Regent McFee's original motion. President Duderstadt encouraged the Board to continue to work with the administration to improve the policy during the interim period. In addition to having counsel review
Regent Bakers amendments, Regent Brown suggested an amendment that if the
complainant is an attorney, the respondent should also be able to have an attorney.
In response to some of the public comments, Regent Brown pointed out that
the reason there has to be a code is that the courts have said a procedure is necessary in order to take disciplinary action. Regent Power pointed out that speakers
had fallaciously equated the creation of a code with a set of sanctions appropriate
to criminal activities. The code had then been attacked on the basis that it was
different from criminal law and was defective because it did not have the same
protection that criminal law allows for crimes. Regent Power asserted that the
purpose of the code is to set out what kind of conduct is appropriate for student
members of the University community, to establish fair procedures through
which sanctions can be established to encourage compliance with those standards, and to set in motion a course of education and understanding of why those
standards are appropriate in the University community. To him, the central issue is freedom of speech, because it is the central point that characterizes a university community. As the policy is implemented, he will be attentive to whether
freedom of speech is in any way chilled or hampered.
Regent Smith asked about the right of a student who has been suspended
under the policy to be reinstated if found innocent of the infraction in a court of
law. Vice President Hartford responded that reinstatement would not be automatic; the student would have to appeal the suspension decision. Regent Smith
also observed that 81 percent of voters in the recent MSA referendum were opposed to institution of a code. She said the Regents should listen to student opinion and should be enfranchising students, rather than disenfranchising them.
President Duderstadt pointed out that there had been extensive interaction
with students on this issue over the past year, and student opinion had been
carefully listened to. Regent Smith said that we would be doing the students an
injustice by instituting the code. Vice President Hartford noted that students
who are victims of violence and in support of the code need to be listened to as
well.
Regent Nielsen observed that the policy will be an evolving one. He
commented on the issue of suspension/expulsion raised by Regent Smith and
suggested that a provision be considered that provides for legal counsel during
that process. Further discussion followed on this issue in which Vice President
Hartford cautioned against this being turned into a court of law rather than an
administrative academic hearing. She pointed out that the fact that a student
hearing board will be conducting such hearings indicates the trust being placed
in students. Regent Nielsen pointed out the devastating effect suspension or
expulsion would have on students' academic careers. Vice President Hartford


158




November Meeting, 1992


responded that this policy is fair and hearing procedures are consistent with
those in place at other universities and with existing faculty and staff policies.
Regent Baker noted that he had read all of the decisions made under previous policies for the past four years; the bulk of the issues decided upon were not
serious. Regent Baker reiterated that even though it may not be the intent, the
result of the code will be to change behavior, making people adhere to politically
correct conduct, and to enforce whatever current orthodoxy is in effect at any given time. He concluded that a code could have been promulgated in a very minimalist way, rather than through a lengthy document that will end up being
tested in court.
There being no further discussion, the vote was taken on Regent McFee's
motion to rescind the Rules of the University Community and the University Judicial System and to adopt the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
as an interim policy effective January 1, 1993, with the policy coming back for reevaluation by the Regents in February 1994. The vote was taken and the motion
carried, with Regents Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regents Baker and Smith opposed.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on December 17 and 18, 1992. Regents' transportation, accommodation, telephone, and other expenses for the month of October 1992 totalled $1,327.96.
Richard. Kennedy, Sec(ftary


159




November Meeting, 1992


Appendix A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF STUDENT FEE BONDS IN
THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $81,000,000 TO FINANCE
PART OF THE COST OF ACQUISITION, CONSTRUCTION, RENOVATION,
FURNISHING AND EQUIPPING OF MAJOR CAPITAL PROJECTS AND
RELATED COSTS, AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT AND SECURiTY
OF THE BONDS AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
needs of students attending The University of Michigan (the "University"), the Regents of the
University of Michigan (the "Issuer") has authorized the acquisition, construction, renovation,
furnishing and equipping of certain facilities on the Ann Arbor and Flint Campuses of the University (collectively, the "Projects"), all as described on Exhibit A attached hereto, and which
Projects are further divided, as set forth on Exhibit A into three groups, being the "Flint Campus
Projects," the "Ann Arbor Campus General Projects" and the "Ann Arbor Campus Utility Projects"; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
interests of students attending the University, and to prudently control and direct expenditures
of the University's funds the Issuer deems it necessary and advisable to issue in one or more series Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds, with appropriate series designation (hereinafter
defined as the "Bonds"), in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed Eighty One Million
Dollars ($81,000,000) for the purpose of paying part of the cost of acquiring, constructing, renovating, furnishing and equipping the Projects, and paying the expenses related thereto and incidental to the issuance of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the financing of the Projects will serve proper and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously incurred obligations secured by a pledge of and
first lien against Student Fees, subject to the right to incur additional obligations similarly secured, upon conditions specified in the resolutions authorizing said previously incurred obligations, essentially as follows, to wit
"The total amount of Student Fees collected by the University in each of its last
two preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such additional Parity
Obligations are equal to at least 200% percent of the maximum annual principal and
interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed
additional Parity Obligations during any future Fiscal Year the proposed additional
Parity Obligations are scheduled to be outstanding."
WHEREAS, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University shall certify in connection with the issuance of
the Bonds, that all conditions and requirements precedent to the issuance of the Bonds shall have
been met, as shown by audit reports of the University for each of its last two preceding fiscal
years, 1990-91 and 1991-92; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has been created as a constitutional body corporate under the provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and has full power under
its constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and control and direction of expenditures from the University funds, to construct the Projects, to pay the cost of the acquisition,
construction, renovating, furnishing and equipping of the Projects by issuance of the Bonds, and
to pledge Student Fees for payment of the Bonds;


161




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the following terms
shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:
"Ann Arbor Campus General Projects" means the portion of the Projects so designated on
Exhibit A hereto.
"Ann Arbor Campus Utility Projects" means the portion of the Projects so designated on
Exhibit A hereto.
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the Regents of the University of Michigan Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds, with appropriate additional series designations, to be issued in one or
more series under this Resolution in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed
$81,000,000.
"Bond Payment Date" means any date on which interest or principal and interest is payable on the Bonds, being April 1, and October 1 of each year beginning the first April or October
1 occurring at least 90 days after the date of the Bonds.
"Bond Fund" means the University of Michigan Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds
Bond Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bondholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Bonds) means the registered owner
of any Bond.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, currently beginning on July 1 and
ending on June 30.
"Flint Campus Projects" means the portion of the Projects so designated on Exhibit A
hereto.
"Governmental Obligations" means any of the following which at the time of investment
are legal investments for the moneys proposed to be invested therein: direct general obligations
of, or obligations the payment of the principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America, or other obligations, including defeased tax-exempt securities and maturing interests in a trusteed fund or funds composed entirely of any of the
foregoing instruments, the timely payment of which is filly secured by the payment of principal
and interest on direct general obligations of, or obligations the payment of principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when received, earned
through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the Bond Fund.
"Issuer" means the Regents of the University of Michigan, a constitutional body corporate
having general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures from
its funds.
"Legally Available Funds" means any moneys of the Issuer that may be legally used by the
Issuer to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds, but shall not include any funds (a) currently
or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or future loans, bonds or debt service on
other obligations, or other purposes to the extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the use of
which would result in the Bonds herein authorized being construed as a general obligation of the
Issuer or as indebtedness of the State of Michigan under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
"Outstanding" or "Bonds outstanding" means, as of any date, all Bonds delivered under the
Resolution, except (i) Bonds theretofore acquired by the Issuer and cancelled and (ii) Bonds for
which the Issuer shall have made provision for payment in accordance with the Resolution by
depositing with the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent cash or cash and Government


162




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


Obligations, the principal of and interest on which when due will be sufficient to pay the principal of and, premium, if any, and interest on said Bonds as the same become due through maturity.
"Parity Obligations" means the Bonds and any other debts or obligations of the Issuer secured by a pledge of and first lien against Student Fees, including the existing Parity Obligations
specified in Section 501 and any additional Parity Obligations hereafter issued by the Issuer from
time to time in accordance with the terms of the Resolution.
"Projects" means the Projects described on Exhibit A hereto, with such adjustments as may
be made thereto pursuant to Section 502 hereof.
"Project Fund" means the University of Michigan Major Capital Projects Student Fee
Bonds Project Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Student Fees" means the general tuition fees established from time to time by the Issuer,
and collected from the students attending any campus of the University.
"Transfer Agent" means the Transfer Agent appointed by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or any successor Transfer Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section 305 or 308.
"University" means the University of Michigan.
ARTICLE I
NECESSITY FOR ISSUANCE OF BONDS
Section 201. Necessity for Issuance of the Bonds. The Issuer, in the exercise of its powers
and authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and direction of
all expenditures from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, hereby determines that the issuance of the Bonds for the purposes set
forth in the preambles hereto is necessary and advisable in order to enable the Issuer to finance
the cost of the acquisition, construction, renovation, furnishing and equipping of the Projects.
ARTICLE ImI
THE BONDS
Section 301. Authorization of the Issuance of the Bonds. For the purposes set forth in Article II, there shall be borrowed the sum of not to exceed Eighty One Million Dollars
($81,000,000), and in evidence thereof there shall be issued in one or more series, the Bonds of
the Issuer which shall be designated "Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds," with appropriate additional series designation, in like aggregate principal amount.
The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Associate Vice President for Finance are each hereby designated as an "Authorized Officer," and each, singly, is authorized to
make the determinations specified herein.
The Bonds shall be issued in such aggregate principal amount, not more than $81,000,000,
as an Authorized Officer shall determine, and may be issued in one or more series corresponding
to the financing of the Flint Campus Projects, the Ann Arbor Campus General Projects and the
Ann Arbor Campus Utility Projects, or any combination thereof, as an Authorized Officer may
determine. The Bonds may be serial bonds or term bonds subject to redemption requirements as
an Authorized Officer shall determine. The Bonds shall be sold, at a discount not exceeding 1% of
the principal amount of the Bonds, at public sale following publication of a notice of sale in the
form to be approved by an Authorized Officer, and shall be awarded to the winning bidder as
shall be determined by an Authorized Officer. The Bonds shall bear such rates of interest as shall
be set forth in the winning bid, but the net interest cost for the Bonds, taking into account the
rates and any discount or premium, shall not exceed 8.00 % per annum. An Authorized Officer


163




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


may place additional limitations on the bids in the Notice of Sale and may determine to award
the Bonds on the basis of either true interest cost or net interest cost. The maximum annual
principal and interest on the Bonds shall not exceed $8,300,000.
The Bonds shall be dated as of a date or dates to be selected by an Authorized Officer, shall
all be equally secured as hereinafter set forth, shall be issued in fully-registered form in the denomination of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof not exceeding the principal amount of Bonds
maturing in the year of maturity of the Bond specified, and shall be numbered consecutively
from 1 upwards.
The Bonds shall bear interest payable on April 1 and October 1 of each year until maturity, commencing on the first April 1 or October 1 at least 90 days after the date of the Bonds. The
principal amount of each Bond shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America
upon surrender of the Bond at the principal corporate trust office of a bank or trust company
designated by an Authorized Officer (the "Transfer Agent") in such coin or currency of the
United States of America as may be, on the respective dates of payment thereof, legal tender for
the payment of debts due the United States of America Interest on the Bonds shall be payable
when due to the person or entity who is, as of the 15th day of the month prior to each Bond Payment Date (the "Record Date") the registered holder of record by check or draft mailed by the
Transfer Agent to the registered holder as of the Record Date at the registered address or by wire
transfer by the Transfer Agent to any Bondholder of $100,000 or more in aggregate principal
amount of Bonds to such wire transfer address as the Bondholder shall specify in a written notice
requesting payment by wire transfer delivered to the Transfer Agent not later than 11:00 am. on
the fifth business day prior to the Bond Payment Date (which notice may provide that it shall remain effective until changed or revoked).
Section 302. Limited Obligation. The Bonds shall be limited obligations of the Issuer equally and ratably and solely secured by Student Fees and any moneys in the Bond Fund, and the
Bonds shall not be a debt or liability of the State of Michigan or a general obligation of the Issuer.
Section 303. Execution, Authentication and Delivery. The Bonds shall be signed in the
name of and on behalf of the Issuer by facsimile signature of its Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or its Associate Vice President for Finance printed, lithographed or engraved thereon.
No Bond shall be valid until authenticated by an authorized officer or agent of the Transfer
Agent. The Bonds, when executed and authenticated, shall be delivered by the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance to the purchaser thereof upon
payment of the purchase price therefor determined pursuant to Section 301 hereof. Executed
blank Bonds for registration of transfer shall be delivered to the Transfer Agent for safekeeping
concurrently with the delivery of the Bonds, and from time to time thereafter as necessary.
In case any officer a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any Bonds shall cease to
be such officer before the delivery of such Bonds, either as part of the initial delivery of the Bonds
or in connection with a transfer or exchange, such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. The Transfer
Agent's certificate of authentication of any Bond shall be deemed to have been executed by it if
signed by an authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent, but it shall not be necessary that the
same person sign the certificate of authentication on all of the Bonds issued hereunder.
Section 304. Redemption of Bonds. The Bonds shall be subject to optional or mandatory
redemption, or both, at the times and prices as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer,
provided, however, that no redemption premium on the optional redemption of Bonds shall exceed 3% of the principal amount being redeemed. The principal amount of Term Bonds to be redeemed on any date shall, at the option of the Issuer, be reduced, in the order determined by the
Issuer, by the principal amount of Term Bonds of the same series and maturity, which have been
previously redeemed (other than pursuant to a previous annual redemption requirement) or purchased or acquired by the Issuer and submitted to the Transfer Agent for cancellation; provided
that each such Bond has not theretofore been applied as a credit against any mandatory redemption requirement. The Issuer shall give notice to the Transfer Agent at least 45 days prior to any
mandatory redemption date of the Issuer's exercise of its option to reduce the amount of the


164




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


mandatory redemption requirement on such date as herein set forth. The provisions set forth in
this paragraph, including the provisions pertaining to the reduction of mandatory redemption requirements, shall survive the defeasance of the Bonds and this Resolution as permitted by Section 702 hereof.
Notice of redemption of any Bond shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the date
fixed for redemption by mail to the registered holder or holders of the Bond to be redeemed at the
registered addresses shown on the registration books kept by the Transfer Agent. Bonds shall be
called for redemption in multiples of $5,000 and Bonds of denominations of more than $5,000
shall be treated as representing the number of Bonds obtained by dividing the denomination of
the Bond by $5,000 and such Bonds may be redeemed in part. The notice of redemption for
Bonds redeemed in part shall state that upon surrender of the Bond to be redeemed a new Bond
or Bonds in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Bond surrendered shall be issued to the registered holder thereof, without cost to the holder. No further interest on the Bonds or portions of Bonds called for redemption shall accrue after the date fixed for
redemption, whether presented for redemption or not, provided funds are on hand with the
Transfer Agent to redeem the same.
Section 305. Form of Issuance and Transfer of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be issued in the
form of fully-registered bonds without coupons. Any Bond may be exchanged for Bonds of other
authorized denominations or transferred upon the books required to be kept pursuant to this
section by the person in whose name it is registered, in person or by his duly authorized attorney,
upon surrender of the Bond to the Transfer Agent for cancellation, accompanied by delivery of a
duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Bond or Bonds shall be surrendered for transfer or exchange, the Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University shall execute or
cause to be executed, as specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver a
new Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal amount, and with like interest rate and maturity.
The Transfer Agent shall require the payment by the Bondholder requesting the transfer or exchange of any tax or other governmental charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer
or exchange. The Transfer Agent shall not be required to make any transfer or exchange of any
Bond or portion of a Bond called for redemption within 30 days of the redemption date (except
the unredeemed portion of a Bond to be redeemed in part), or any Bond within 10 days prior to
the date of publication of a notice of redemption.
The Transfer Agent shall keep or cause to be kept, at its principal office, sufficient books
for the registration and transfer or exchange of the Bonds, which shall at all times be open to inspection at reasonable times by the Issuer and its auditors or their designees; and, upon presentation for such purpose, the Transfer Agent shall, under regulations as it may prescribe, transfer
or exchange or cause to be transferred or exchanged, on said books, Bonds as hereinbefore provided.
The form of the Bonds shall be substantially as follows:


165




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


(Form of Bond)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
MAJOR CAPITAL PROJECTS STUDENT FEE BOND,
SERIES
No.        Maturity Date:        Principal Amount:        Interest Rate:
Date of Original Issue:
Registered Holder.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body corporate created by
and existing under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan (the "Issuer"), for value received, hereby promises to pay the Principal Amount shown above to the Registered Holder or
registered assigns, in lawful money of the United States of America on the Maturity Date shown
above, with interest thereon until maturity from           or such later date through
which interest on the Bond in exchange for which this Bond has been issued has been paid at the
Interest Rate shown above, first payable       1,, and semiannually thereafter on
April 1 and October 1. Principal of this bond is payable at the principal corporate trust office of, in,             (the "Transfer Agent") or such other
transfer agent as the Issuer may hereafter designate by notice mailed to the registered owner not
less than 60 days prior to any interest payment date. Interest on this bond is payable to the person or entity who is, as of the 15th day of the month prior to each interest payment date (the
"Record Date"), the registered owner, by check or draft mailed by the Transfer Agent to the registered holder as of the Record Date at the registered address, or by wire transfer by the Transfer
Agent to any holder of $100,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds to such wire
transfer address as the holder shall specify in a written notice requesting payment by wire transfer delivered to the Transfer Agent not later than 11:00 aLm. on the fifth business day prior to the
interest payment date (which notice may provide that it shall remain effective until changed or
revoked).
This bond is one of an issue of bonds (the "Bonds"), of like tenor, except as to series designation, denomination, rate of interest and date of maturity, aggregating the principal amount of
$, all issued pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Issuer on, 1992
(the "Resolution"), for the purpose of paying part of the cost of the acquisition, construction,
renovation, furnishing and equipping of certain capital projects on the Flint and Ann Arbor campuses of the University of Michigan, and paying costs related thereto and incidental to the issuance of the Bonds, all in accordance with the authority vested in the Issuer by law, particularly
Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963. The Bonds are being issued in
three series, each with the same date of issue, designated 199  Series A, 199  Series B and
199_ Series C.
The Bonds, including this bond, are equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of
the Student Fees (defined in the Resolution) from the students attending the University of Michigan. The Issuer has covenanted and agreed to establish and maintain Student Fees to be collected in an amount sufficient to provide annually sums equal to at least two hundred percent of
the maximum future annual debt service requirements on all outstanding bonds or obligations
payable on a first lien basis therefrom. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal
amount of or interest on this bond or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the
Issuer or any officer or agent thereof or of the University of Michigan, as individuals, either directly or indirectly nor shall these obligations become a lien on or be secured by any property,


166




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


real personal or mixed, of the State of Michigan or the Issuer, other than the Student Fees and
the Bond Fund, as more fully defined in the Resolution. By acceptance hereof and as a part of the
consideration for the issuance hereof, the registered owner hereof expressly waives all other recourse.
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Bonds are issued, the funds from
which and the conditions under which this bond is payable, the general covenants and provisions
pursuant to which this bond is issued, the outstanding obligations of the Issuer which have an
equal claim on the Student Fees with the Bonds, the rights of the holders of Bonds, and the right
of the Issuer to issue additional obligations of equal standing and priority of lien on the Student
Fees with the Bonds, and the terms and conditions under which this bond and the series of Bonds
of which this is one, or any part thereof, shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, reference is
made to the above described Resolution. A certified copy of the Resolution is on file at the Investment Office of the University.
The Bonds maturing prior to, shall not be subject to redemption prior to
maturity. Bonds maturing on or after, shall be subject to redemption prior to
maturity at the option of the Issuer, in whole or in part on any date on or after, in such order of maturity as the Issuer shall designate and by lot within a maturity, at the
following redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount to be redeemed),
plus accrued interest to the redemption date:
Redemption Dates                   Redemption Price
The Bonds maturing                (the "Term Bonds"), are also subject to mandatory
redemption by lot prior to maturity, on, in the years and the amounts set forth in
the order of authorized officer of the Issuer establishing the terms of the Bonds, at a redemption
price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed plus accrued interest to the redemption date without premium.
The principal amount respectively of the Term Bonds to be redeemed on the dates set forth
in the Indentu   re    duced, shalln the order determined by the Issuer, by the principal amount
of any Term Bonds of the same series and maturity which have been previously redeemed
(otherwise than as a result of a mandatory redemption requirement) or purchased by the Issuer
and delivered to the Transfer Agent for cancellations provided toin the Transfer Agent for cancellation the Resolution.
Notice of redemption of any Bond shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the date
fixed for redemption by mail to the registered hol der s of the Bond to be redeemed at the
registered addresses shown on the registration books kept by the Transfer Agent. Bonds shall be
called for redemption in multiples of $5,000 and Bonds of denominations of more than $5,000
shall be treated as representing the number of Bonds obtained by dividing the denomination of
the Bond by $5,000 and such Bonds may be redeemed in part. The notice of redemption for
Bonds redeemed in part shall state that upon surrender of the Bond to be redeemed a new Bond
or Bonds in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Bond surrendered shall be issued to the registered holder thereof, without cost to the holder. No further interest on the Bonds or portions of Bonds called for redemption shall accrue after the date fixed for
redemption, whether presented for redemption or not, provided funds are on hand with the
Transfer Agent, to redeem the same.
Any Bond may be exchanged for Bonds of other authorized denominations or transferred
by the person in whose name it is registered, in person or by his duly authorized attorney, upon
surrender of the Bond to the   Transfer Agent for cancellation, together with a duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Bond is surrendered for transfer or exchange, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate
Vice President for Finance of the University shall execute or cause to be executed, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal
amount, and with like interest rate and maturity. The Transfer Agent shall require the bondholder requesting the transfer or exchange to pay any tax or other governmental charge required
to be paid with respect to the transfer or exchange. The Transfer Agent shall not be required to


167




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


make any transfer or exchange of any Bond or portion of a Bond called for redemption within 30
days of the redemption date (except the unredeemed portion of a Bond to be redeemed in part),
or any Bond within 10 days prior to the date of publication of a notice of redemption.
This Bond is not valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Transfer Agent's Certificate
of Authentication on this Bond has been duly executed by the authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent.
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things required to be done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Bond,
have been done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner, as required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of Michigan has caused this
Bond to be signed for it and in its behalf by the facsimile signature of its
all as of the Date of Original Issue set forth above.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
By
Its


168




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


Certificate of Authentication
This is to certify that the within Bond is one of the Regents of the University of Michigan
Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series, described in the Resolution herein referred to.


Date of
Authentication:


By


Authorized Signatory


169




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


[FORM OF ASSIGNMENT]
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto


the within Bond of
the Regents of the University of Michigan
and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint
Attorney to transfer the said Bond on the books of the
within-named Corporation, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:
In the presence of:


_______Signature(s) Guaranteed
Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution participating in a Securities Transfer Association recognized signature guarantee program.
Note:   The signature to this Assignment must correspond with the name as written on the face of this Bond in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. When assignment is made by a
guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a corporation, or
anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his authority to act must accompany the Bond.


170




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


Section 306. Mutilated Bonds. Subject to and in accordance with Act 354, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1972, as amended ("Act 354"), if any bond shall become mutilated, the Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, at the
expense of the holder of the Bond, shall without further action being required by the Regents of
the University of Michigan, execute or cause to be executed in the manner specified above, and
the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Bond of like tenor in exchange and substitution for the mutilated bond, upon surrender to the Transfer Agent of the mutilated Bond
and receipt by the Transfer Agent and the Issuer of indemnity satisfactory to them. Subject to
and in accordance with Act 354, if any Bond issued under this Resolution shall be lost, destroyed
or stolen, evidence of the loss, destruction or theft may be submitted to the Transfer Agent and, if
this evidence is satisfactory to both the Transfer Agent and the Issuer and indemnity satisfactory
to the Transfer Agent and the Issuer shall be given, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance, at the expense of the owner, shall without further action being required by the Regents of the University of Michigan, execute or cause to be
executed in the manner specified above and the Transfer Agent shall thereupon authenticate and
deliver, a new Bond of like tenor and bearing the statement required by Act 354, or any applicable Michigan law hereafter enacted, in lieu of and in substitution for the Bond so lost, destroyed or stolen. If any such Bond shall have matured or shall be about to mature, instead of
issuing a substitute bond the Transfer Agent may pay the same without surrender thereof.
Section 307. Cancellation of Bonds. All Bonds which have been retired by maturity, redemption or purchase shall be cancelled by the Transfer Agent and an appropriate certificate of
cancellation with respect thereto delivered to the Issuer. Unless otherwise required by applicable
law, regulation or rule, as soon as practicable following the cancellation thereof, all cancelled
Bonds shall be cremated and an appropriate certificate of cremation delivered to the Issuer by
the Transfer Agent.
Section 308. Resignation of Transfer Agent. The Transfer Agent may resign by giving not
less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to the Issuer, and the Issuer may remove the
Transfer Agent by giving not less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to the Transfer
Agent. The Issuer shall designate a successor Transfer Agent and shall mail notice of the appointment of the successor Transfer Agent to each registered owner of the Bonds not less than
sixty (60) days prior to the next Bond Payment Date. Upon the appointment of a successor
Transfer Agent, the predecessor Transfer Agent shall transfer all moneys and funds, the registration books, and all other documents and instruments relating to the Bonds held by it as Transfer
Agent to the successor Transfer Agent.
ARTICLE IV
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Section 401. Establishment of Project Fund. There is hereby created and established the
Project Fund, which shall be a sub-account within a general banking account of the University
designated by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. There shall be deposited in the
Project Fund (i) all proceeds from the sale of the Bonds, except accrued interest to be deposited
in the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 501, and (ii) all investment earnings on investments of
the Project Fund. All moneys in the Project Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as
provided in Article V.
Section 402. Establishment of Bond Fund. There is hereby created and established with
the Transfer Agent the Bond Fund. There shall be deposited in the Bond Fund:
1.   Any accrued interest received at the time of delivery of the Bonds.
2.   Student Fees as pledged and required to be paid into the Bond Fund at the times
and in the amounts provided in Section 602.
3.   All Legally Available Funds authorized or permitted to be paid into the Bond
Fund pursuant to Section 603.
4.   All Investment Income.
5.   Any moneys remaining in the Project Fund after the disbursements provided for
in Article V which are directed by the Issuer to be deposited therein.


171




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


All moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in
Article V.
ARTICLE V
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
Section 501. Application of Bond Proceeds. Immediately upon the receipt thereof, the proceeds of the sale of the Bonds shall be apportioned among and deposited in the following funds
and accounts in the following manner
1.   Any accrued interest received on sale of the Bonds shall be deposited in the Bond
Fund;
2.   The balance of the proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited in the Project Fund.
Section 502. Use of and Disbursements from Project Fund. Moneys in the Project Fund
shall be used pursuant to the following purposes:
1.   Payment of accounting, financial consulting, legal, printing and other expenses
of the Issuer in connection with the preparation, issuance, sale and delivery of
the Bonds;
2.   Payments necessary to finance the cost of the acquisition, construction,
renovation, furnishing and equipping of the Projects or to reimburse the Issuer
for general funds expended in connection with the foregoing.
Any amount remaining in the Project Fund after satisfaction of the foregoing priorities
shall, as directed by the Issuer, be promptly transferred to the Bond Fund or used by the Issuer
for payment of any other lawful capital costs of the University as determined by the Issuer. The
depository for the Project Fund shall make disbursements from the Project Fund upon the order
of the Issuer, and shall have no duty or liability with respect to the manner or method in which
moneys are withdrawn by the Issuer from the Project Fund or in fact are used or applied by the
Issuer. The Issuer may, by filing a certificate of an Authorized Officer in the office of the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, add or delete components of the Projects, subject to the Issuer's normal requirements for project approvals.
Section 503. Use of and Disbursements from Bond Fund. On each Bond Payment Date, the
Transfer Agent shall use moneys in the Bond Fund to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds
as the same become due and, in the case of principal payments, as the Bonds are presented and
surrendered. The Transfer Agent may use moneys in the Bond Fund not required to pay maturing principal or interest on the next Bond Payment Date for the acquisition of Bonds in the open
market at the written direction of the Issuer. Any amount remaining in the Bond Fund after the
Bonds have been paid or provision made therefor under the Resolution shall be returned to the
Issuer.
Section 504. Investment of Funds. Moneys held in the Bond Fund, until required for use,
shall be invested by Transfer Agent in direct obligations of, or obligations the principal and the
interest of which are guaranteed by the United States of America; or obligations of Federal Farm
Credit Banks, Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Land Bank, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, the Export-Import Bank of the United States,
the Government National Mortgage Association, the Bank for Cooperatives, the Federal Financing Bank, the Farmers Home Administration and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association;
or tax-exempt obligations rated A or better by Moody's Investors Service and Standard and
Poor's Corporation in the case of long term obligations, or in the highest category by each such
rating agency in the case of short-term obligations; or may be deposited in a bank or banks
(including the Transfer Agent) in an interest bearing savings account or accounts, bankers' acceptances or in certificates of deposit; or may be invested in any fund or funds composed entirely
of any or all of the above described investment vehicles (provided that, with respect to tax-exempt
obligations in such funds, the obligations need not be rated A or better, but rather must be, or be
deemed to be by the Fund's sponsor or adviser, investment grade), all as shall be directed by the
Issuer.


172




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


Interest or profit earned on the above investments or deposits, when received shall be deposited in the Bond Fund. Any loss on the above investments or deposits shall be charged to the
Bond Fund.
Moneys held in the Project Fund may be invested in any investments legally available for
University funds. All earnings, gains or losses thereon shall be credited to the Project Fund.
Section 505. Tax Covenant. The Issuer hereby covenants that it shall take all actions within its control necessary to maintain the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"), including
but not limited to actions relating to the rebate of arbitrage earnings, if required, and the expenditure and investment of Bond proceeds and moneys deemed to be Bond proceeds.
ARTICLE VI
SOURCES OF PAYMENT AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS
Section 601. Security for the Bonds. The Bonds are not debts or general obligations of the
State of Michigan, nor general obligations of the Issuer, but are limited obligations of the Issuer
equally and ratably secured only by the following:
1.   All moneys in the Bond Fund;
2.   Student Fees and the Issuer's right to receive Student Fees; and
3.   All of the proceeds of the foregoing.
The Issuer hereby pledges and grants to the Bondholders a security interest in all of the
foregoing, and in order to assure this security the Issuer covenants and agrees that the Bondholders shall have a first lien on all moneys in the Bond Fund, and that Bondholders shall have a first
lien against Student Fees of equal standing and priority of lien with the pledge of Student Fees
for other Parity Obligations, including additional Parity Obligations which the Issuer reserves
the right to issue under Article VII and the existing (as of October 1, 1992) Parity Obligations of
the Issuer, as follows:
1.   University Events Building Bonds
Original Amount - $5,800,000
Dated - February 1, 1966
Final Maturity - April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $1,150,000
2.   Graduate Library Building Bonds
Original Amount - $2,000,000
Dated - July 1, 1969
Final Maturity - April 1, 1999
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $630,000
3.   Recreational Activities Buildings
Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount - $6,590,000
Dated - July 1, 1977
Final Maturity - April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $5,905,000
4.   Dearborn Recreational Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount - $3,500,000
Dated - April 1, 1978
Final Maturity - April 1, 2008
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $2,740,000


173




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


5.   Dearborn Campus Project Fee Bonds
Original Amount - $10,180,000
Dated - July 1, 1979
Final Maturity - April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $8,095,000
6.   Student Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount - $21,070,000
Dated - May 1, 1983
Final Maturity - April 1, 1993
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $745,000
7.  Telecommunications System Bonds. Series 1984
Original Amount - $45,858,587
Dated - October 1, 1984 and November 1, 1984
Final Maturity - April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $20,188,587
8.   Construction Projects Student Fee Bonds. Series 1986
Original Amount - $14,140,000
Dated - August 1,1986
Final Maturity - April 1, 2012
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $12,865,000
9.   Construction and Refunding Statement For Bonds. Series 1987
Original Amount - $24,985,000
Dated - May 1, 1987
Final Maturity - April 1, 2009
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $22,785,000
10. Telecommunications System and Refunding Bonds. Series 1988
Original Amount - $7,253,682.80
Dated - March 22,1988
Final Maturity - April 1, 1998
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $7,253,682.80
11. Engineering College Projects Student Fee Bonds. Series 1991
Original Amount - $8,100,000
Dated - July 15, 1991
Final Maturity - April 1, 2002
Amount Outstanding (October 1, 1992) - $8,100,000
The lien of the pledge of the Student Fees, and on the Bond Fund, shall be valid and binding from the date of issuance and delivery of the Bonds and all moneys or properties subject
thereto which are thereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien of the pledge without physical delivery or further act. The lien of the pledge shall be valid and binding against all
parties having claim in tort, contract or otherwise against the Issuer (except for the holders of
any other indebtedness of the Issuer payable from a first lien on Student Fees) irrespective of
whether such parties have notice of the lien.
Section 602. Student Fees as Source of Payment of Bonds To the extent that on the fifth
day preceding any Bond Payment Date the moneys then on deposit in the Bond Fund are not
sufficient to meet the interest, or principal and interest, payment coming due on such Bond Payment Date, the Issuer shall, commencing the fifth day prior to the first Bond Payment Date, and
on each subsequent fifth day preceding each Bond Payment Date while the Bonds remain outstanding, pay to the Transfer Agent for deposit into the Bond Fund all Student Fees thereafter
received until the amount on deposit in the Bond Fund is sufficient to pay the interest, and
principal, if any, coming due on the Bonds by maturity on such Bond Payment Date; provided,


174




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


however, that in maldng the payment over to the Transfer Agent, Student Fees shall be divided
pro rata between the Bond Fund and any similar fund for the payment of other obligations of the
Issuer secured by a first lien on Student Fees, to the extent necessary to effect the pari passu basis of the lien on Student Fees. Subject to the above requirements, the Issuer shall have and retain the full right and ability to receive, collect, expend, invest, use or otherwise hold or dispose of
Student Fees as the Issuer deems appropriate.
Section 603. Funds Legally Available Therefor as Source of Payment for the Bonds. The Issuer reserves the right, but shall not be required, to use any Legally Available Funds for the purpose of paying principal or interest on the Bonds.
Section 604. Covenant re: Student Fees. The Issuer covenants and agrees that as long as
any of the Bonds remain outstanding and unpaid, as to either principal or interest, it will establish and maintain Student Fees to be collected from the students attending the University in an
amount sufficient to provide annually sums equal to at least two hundred percent (200%) of the
maximum future annual debt service requirements on all outstanding bonds or obligations payable on a first lien basis from said Student Fees or allocations therefrom. Such collections shall
be sufficient, together with other available funds, to provide such sums as are necessary for the
operation, administration and maintenance of the University and its facilities and programs.
Section 605. Limitations of Obligations. No recourse under any obligation, covenant, stipulation or indenture contained in this Resolution or in any Bond issued hereunder or caused by
the creation of any indebtedness hereby authorized, shall be had against the State of Michigan, or
the Issuer or any member or officer of the Issuer or any officer of the University, nor shall any
such obligation ever be or become a charge against the State of Michigan, nor shall the same become a lien on or secured by any property, real, personal or mixed, of the State of Michigan or
the Issuer, it being expressly understood and agreed that the Bonds and the obligations created
hereunder are secured by and payable only from Student Fees and moneys in the Bond Fund,
and that no other liability whatsoever shall attach to or be incurred by the State of Michigan, the
Issuer, or any member or officer of the Issuer or any officer of the University, or its successors;
all other liability, except as herein provided, being expressly waived.
ARTICLE VII
ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIGATIONS AND DEFEASANCE
Section 701. Additional Parity Obligations. The Issuer reserves the right to issue additional
Parity Obligations for any authorized purpose having equal standing and priority of lien against
Student Fees with the Bonds and other then existing Parity Obligations of the Issuer, provided:
(a) the Issuer by its Associate Vice President for Finance certifies that the total
amount of Student Fees collected by the Issuer in each of its last two preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such proposed additional Parity Obligations
are equal to at least 200% of the maximum annual principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed additional Parity
Obligations during any future Fiscal Year the Bonds are scheduled to be outstanding,
and
(b) the proposed additional Parity Obligations shall be payable as to principal
only on April 1 of the year or years of maturity and payable as to interest either
annually or semiannually on April 1 or October 1 of such years.
Section 702. Defeasance. If all the Bonds shall have become due and payable in accordance
with their terms or are to be paid at their maturity or maturities and the whole amount of the
principal and the interest so due and payable upon all of the Bonds then outstanding shall be
paid or sufficient cash, or cash and non-callable Government Obligations the principal of and the
interest on which without reinvestment, when due and payable, will provide sufficient moneys
for such payment, shall be held by the Transfer Agent in the Bond Fund or by any other escrow
agent in trust for the benefit of the holders of the Bonds, then and in that case the Resolution
shall be defeased and terminated and all obligations of the Issuer hereunder shall thereupon
cease, terminate and become void and, on demand of the Issuer, any surplus in the Bond Fund


175




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


other than money held for the payment of the Bonds shall be transferred to the Issuer; provided,
that the applicable provisions of this Resolution pertaining to the payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds and registration, exchange and transfer of Bonds shall be continued in
force until such have been fully paid.
Bonds or portions of Bonds for which cash or cash and Government Obligations (including
principal of and interest thereon) shall be held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent in
trust for the holders of said Bonds or portions of Bonds sufficient to pay all principal and interest
through maturity shall no longer be outstanding hereunder, and the holders thereof shall have
no further rights hereunder or under the Bonds except the right to receive payment from the
cash or cash and Government Obligations held in trust as specified above and the right to effect
transfers or exchanges of Bonds as described above.
All moneys and Government Obligations held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent
as described above shall be held in trust and applied to the payment, when due, of the Bonds payable therewith.
ARTICLE VIII
FURTHER COVENANTS AND LIMITATION
ON RECOURSE OF BONDHOLDERS
The Issuer covenants and agrees with the holders of the Bonds as follows:
Section 801. Audits and Records. The Issuer shall keep and maintain accurate books and
records relating to the collection of Student Fees and the allocation thereof and the payments
into the Bond Fund, which said books and records shall be open for inspection by any holder of
the Bonds at any reasonable time. Said books and records shall be audited annually by a certified
public accountant.
Section 802. Performance of Covenants: Authority. The Issuer shall faithfully perform all
of its covenants, undertakings, provisions and agreements contained in the Resolution and in any
Bond executed and delivered hereunder and in all other proceedings of the Issuer pertaining
thereto. The Issuer is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan
to adopt the Resolution, to issue the Bonds, to pledge Student Fees in the manner and to the extent herein set forth, and to acquire, construct and equip the Project as contemplated by this
Resolution; all action on its part relating to the adoption of the Resolution and the issuance, execution and delivery of any Bonds has been or will be duly and effectively taken prior to the delivery of such Bonds; and the Bonds in the hands of the holders and owners thereof are and will
be valid and enforceable limited obligations of the Issuer according to their terms.
ARTICLE IX
SUPPIEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS
Section 901. Supplemental Resolutions Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders. The Issuer
may without the consent of the Bondholders adopt resolutions supplemental to the Resolution as
shall not be inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof for any one or more of the following purposes:
(a) To provide for the issuance and sale of additional Parity Obligations;
(b) To confirm or further assure the Student Fees or to grant or pledge to the
Bondholders any additional security;
(c) To add additional covenants and agreements of the Issuer for the purpose of
further securing the payment of the Bonds;
(d) To prescribe further limitations and restrictions upon the issuance of Parity Obligations by the Issuer;


176




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


(e) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the Resolution;
(f) To amend or subtract from or make substitutions for the Projects.
Section 902. Supplemental Resolutions Requiring Consent of Bondholders. Exclusive of
supplemental resolutions covered by Section 901 for which consent of Bondholders is not required, the holders of not less than 51% in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding shall have the right to consent to the adoption by the Issuer of such other supplemental
or amendatory resolutions as shall be deemed necessary and desirable by the Issuer, provided,
however, that nothing contained in this Section shall permit, or be construed as permitting, (i)
an extension of the maturity of the principal of or the interest on any Bond issued hereunder, or
(ii) a reduction in the principal amount of any Bond or the rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a
privilege or priority of any Bond or Bonds over any other Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in
the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to such supplemental or amendatory resolution.
If the Issuer shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution requiring consent of the
Bondholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of such supplemental resolution to be
mailed to each registered owner at the registered address as shown on the books of the Issuer
kept by the Transfer Agent. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed supplemental or amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof are on file at the Investment
Office of the University for inspection by all Bondholders. If within six months following the publication of such notice, the holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds outstanding at the time of the mailing of such notice have consented in writing to the
adoption thereof, upon the adoption of such supplemental or amendatory resolution, the Resolution shall be deemed to be amended in accordance therewith.
ARTICLE X
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1001. Authorization of Official Statement, Preliminary Official Statement, and Official Notice of Sale. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or the Associate Vice President for Finance, or either of them are hereby authorized to cause to be prepared and circulated
a Preliminary Official Statement with respect to the Bonds, to cause to be prepared and published an Official Notice of Sale, and to cause to be prepared, and to execute and deliver on behalf
of the Issuer an Official Statement substantially in the form of the previously prepared Preliminary Official Statement, relating to the Bonds. The distribution and use of the Preliminary Official Statement in accordance with applicable laws, in connection with the sale of the Bonds, is
hereby ratified and confirmed, and the distribution and use of the Official Statement in accordance with applicable laws by the successful bidder, in connection with the marketing of the
Bonds, is hereby authorized and approved.
Section 1002. Resolution Constitutes Contract. The provisions of the Resolution shall constitute a contract between the Issuer and Bondholders to the equal and ratable benefit and
protection of each Bondholder, and after delivery of the Bonds, no change, variation, or alteration
of the provisions of the Resolution may be made except in accordance with its terms.
Section 1003. Enforcement of Contract. The contract constituted by the Resolution shall
be enforceable by appropriate proceedings taken by the Bondholder(s) under the law.
Section 1004. Other Documentation. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
University, the Secretary of the University, the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, the Treasurer and Investment Officer of the University, and any other appropriate officers or representatives of the Issuer or the University, and each of them, are authorized to
perform all acts and deeds and execute and deliver all instruments and documents for and on behalf of the Issuer required by this Resolution, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection
with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds, and the acquisition, construction, renovation,
furnishing and equipping of the Projects all as contemplated hereby.
Subsequent to the issuance of the Bonds, all actions permitted or required by the Issuer
may be made or undertaken by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or Associate Vice


177




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


President for Finance, or any other duly authorized officer of the Issuer or the University. All determination of Bond terms required to be made by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
or Associate Vice President for Finance shall be made by him within the ranges or other limitations set forth herein.
ARTICLE XI
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1101. Severability. If any one or more sections, clauses or provisions of the Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective for any
reason, such determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the remaining
sections, clauses and provisions of the Resolution.
Section 1102. Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference and shall
not constitute a part of the Resolution, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or effect.
Section 1103. Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Section 1104. Effective Date. The Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.


178




November Meeting, 1992 - Appendix A


EXIBRIT A


I. FLINT CAMPUS PROJECTS


Estimated
Total Cost


Estimated Amount
To Be Financed
From Bond Proceeds


Project Component
Francis Willson Thompson
Library and Central Energy Plant Utility
Distribution Expansion


$23.300.000


$7.300.000


II.ANN ARBOR CAMPUS GENERAL PROJECTS


Project Component
Renovation of East Engineering Building
Randall Library Addition
Undergraduate Library Expansion
Administrative Office Facilities
TOTAL


Estimated
Total Cost
$27,500,000
21,400,000
6,850,000
6,500.000
$62,250,000


Estimated Amount
To Be Financed
From Bond Proceeds
$27,500,000
21,400,000
6,850,000
6.500,000
$62,250,000


III.


ANN ARBOR CAMPUS UTILITY PROJECTS


Estimated
Total Cost


Estimated Amount
To Be Financed
From Bond Proceeds


Project Component
Central Power Plant and North
Campus Electrical Expansions


$10,313.000


$8.913.000


179




DECEMBER MEETING, 1992


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 17, 1992
The Regents met at 1:15 PM. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, and Smith. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors Jones
and Klein. Regent Varner arrived shortly after the start of the meeting, Regent
Waters was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and welcomed Regentselect Rebecca McGowan and Laurence Deitch, who were present to observe the
meeting.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Nielsen read the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session at
3:00 P.M. on December 17, 1992, in the Regents' Room, for the purpose
of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in
connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Report of Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA)
President Duderstadt invited Professors Ejner Jensen, chair of SACUA, and
John Tropman, chair of CESF, to the table to give their reports.
Professor Jensen reported on the range of activities undertaken by SACUA,
including both completed and ongoing projects. Among the completed projects
are the creation of a Legal Advisory Council; enlargement of the pool of persons
eligible for election to SACUA; establishment of an annual academic freedom lecture; and adoption of the recommendations of the Task Force on the Evaluation
of Administrators. Projects in progress include revisions of grievance policies to
make them uniform across the University; creation of unit "ombuds"; a study of
clinical and nontenure-track faculty appointments; a task force on retirement;
and consideration of a discriminatory harassment policy.
Ongoing committee activities in the Senate Assembly include the Student
Affairs Committee, the Rules Committee, the University Relations Committee,
the Committee for a Multicultural University, the Academic Affairs Committee,
the Civil Liberties Board, and the Research Policies Committee.


181




December Meeting, 1992


Professor Jensen pointed out the connection between the practical issues
noted above to values and principles, and to the various missions of the
University. Noting that this would be the last Regents' Meeting for Regents
Nielsen and Smith, he thanked them and the other Regents for participating in a
continuing dialogue with SACUA
Regent Baker commented that he has some reservations about the notion of
evaluation of administrators. Regarding the proposed discriminatory harassment
policy, Regent Baker observed that often such codes tend to grow out of proportion to their original intent once they are executed, and if they inhibit free expression of ideas, they could do permanent injmy to the idea of a university.
Professor Jensen responded that faculty share Regent Baker's concerns, and that
a policy is needed at the University so that there will be a mechanism for handling incidents that raise questions of possible inhibition of freedom of expression.
Following further discussion, Professor Jensen introduced Professor John
Tropman to present the report of the Committee on the Economic Status of the
Faculty (CESF). Professor Tropman proposed a review of the whole issue of compensation, leading, perhaps, to adoption of a strategic pay system that might better achieve the goals of both the faculty and the University better. Such a review
would include exploring new compensation approaches, such as flexible benefits,
bonus plans, gainsharing, faculty draw accounts, and other possibilities.
There followed some discussion about how to broaden this idea to include
all segments of the University, not just faculty. Regent Power said that such a
discussion needs to occur in the context of developing a more explicit formulation
of the University's strategic goals and mission. He also noted the importance of
building the notion of community in the context of a complex university.
Regarding the fact that the faculty was developing a harassment code to cover faculty, Regent Smith observed that she thought the student code should have
been developed in a similar fashion, by the students.
Regent McFee stressed the importance of communication as a means of
solving problems. Further discussion ensued in response to issues that had been
raised by the SACUA and CESF reports. At the conclusion, Regent Brown expressed the Regents' appreciation for the work done by SACUA and CESF, and
invited them to continue communicating with the Board as a whole and with individual Regents as necessary.
Annual Report on Research
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Kelly to present the Annual
Report on Research. Vice President Kelly reported that in fiscal year 1992, total
research expenditures had increased by 6.9 percent, reaching a record total of
$346.5 million. Despite the fact that the indirect cost reimbursement rate decreased, indirect cost recovery increased as a result of total direct cost expenditures.


182




December Meeting, 1992


According to a study by the National Science Foundation, the University
ranks first in the volume of total research expenditures among all public institutions, and second among all colleges and universities, public and private. Vice
President Kelly displayed charts describing various other comparative measures
of the University's research volume, noting that if the National Science Foundation didn't count the Applied Physics Laboratory at The Johns Hopkins University as a research expenditure, it would drop to number nine in the rankings, and
the University of Michigan would rank number one.
Vice President Kelly explained that one possible rason for the University's
large research volume is its competitive proposal success rate, which in 1991 exceeded national averages in six of seven categories.
Vice President Kelly reviewed trends in research expenditures by source, by
sponsor group, and by University unit. He then turned to a discussion of
technology transfer activities, using the example of the National Center for Ultrafast Optical Science, headed by Professor Gerard Mourou. He also made note
of the "culture transfer" that takes place in the humanities and performing arts
fields.
In the discussion that followed, Vice President Kelly and President Duderstadt responded to comments from the Regents about how to facilitate and enhance the transfer of University-developed intellectual properties to the private
sector. In response to a comment from Regent Brown, Vice President Kelly
pointed out that the University receives seven dollars for every dollar in discretionary funds it spends to support research.
Minutes
Consideration of the minutes of the November 1992 meeting was deferred
until the next meeting.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, and Litigation. Vice President Kelly submitted reports on Projects Established-Research and Other Activities and Summaries of a Selection of
Current Research and Sponsored Projects. On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varer, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Cosovich submitted reports of gifts received for the month of
November 1992. The Regents received the following gifts, with thanks, and in
accord with their terms and conditions:
ARCO Foundation, Inc., Los Angeles, California
for employee matching gifts _...6,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and for the Cognitive Science and
Machine Intelligence Laboratory in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts __35,335


183




December Meeting 1992


Alexander & Alexander of Michigan, Detroit
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration. 6.5,000
American Association of Orthodontists, Saint Louis, Missouri
for research in the School of Dentistry..........6,976
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts _-.                                                  1...............162,128
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
for Manufacturing Initiatives support in the College of Engineering.50,000
Anonymous Donor
for the English Language Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _. 8,0 00
Aramco Services Company, Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media,
College of Engineering............. 66,000
Automated Precision, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland
for discretionary support in the College of Engineering.......,800
BIOSYM Technologies, Inc., San Diego, California
for research in the College of Engineering..... 10,690
Gracia C. Barry, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for the Dr. Frances Wang Chin Fellowship in the Medical School..........6,000
Bell Communications Research, Inc., Livingston, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering and for support in the School of
Information and Library Studies                     __.........................................................25,000
Beverly Foundation, Pasadena, California
for research support in the Institute of Gerontology............................................7,600
Martha T. Boaz, Critz, Virginia
for the Martha Boaz Lectureship in the School of Information and Library Studies._. 17,200
Robert C. Bogert, Marina Del Rey, California
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering.................    6,000
Floydene B. Brownlee, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the School of Education _....65,000
Byrne Foundation, Hanover, New Hampshire
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..._..        100,000
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the Robert Caddell Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering _.  6,000
Kathryn L. Carl Estate
for the Kathryn Carl Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint..204,5756
Irene K Carroll Estate
for undergraduate student aid in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts ___.20,722
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for actuarial science support in the School of Business Administration _...11,000
Helen G. Cope Estate
for the Alumni Association.6,5000
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for classical studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.0 10,000
Margaret F. Cutting Estate
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts           -..25,300
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School _-..649,125
Dover Fund, Inc., San Francisco, California
for the Sanford Robertson Assistant Professorship in the School of Business
Administration._.2650,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering, the Britton
Chemistry Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for support of the Macromolecular Research Center..               356,5600
Dowell Schlumberger, Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media, College
of Engineering                                                                16,6500
E-Systems, Inc., Greenville, Texas
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering _0             7,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for Minority and Female scholarships in the College of Engineering.         14,697
George M. Elsner & Associates, Chicago, Illinois
for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law School._5,000


184




December Meeting, 1992


Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the Medical School a...,....   7,500
Exxon Company, U.SA, Division of Exxon Corporation, Houston, Texas
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Law and the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts           _.............24,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering __10,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for Under-Represented Students scholarships in the School of Business Administration.25,000
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship __,.,854
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for the General Dynamics Fellowship in the College of Engineering.    100,000
Carl A. Gerstacker, Midland
for the Rollin M. Gerstacker Faculty Development Fund in the College of Engineering.200,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for program support in the College of Engineering........................10,000
Harris Charitable Annuity Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.65,000
Mrs. Firman H. Hass, West Bloomfield
for unrestricted support of the School of Education                           5,000
Hatch Stamping Company, Chelsea
for support in the College of Engineering _.................................12,500
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School.__...... __.__.......       5,000
Dorothy Hill Trust
for scholarships in the Law School..........5,000
J. William Holland, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School....5,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School _  ___...____...10,850
Mary I. Hunting, Grand Rapids
for the Mary I. and David D. Hunting Family Endowment in Humanities, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts _-     -.._._....  170,066
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for fellowships in the College of Engineering.___..17,244
International Paper, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the Minority and Female Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................ 10,000
John M. Jenks, Leawood, Kansas
233 shares of Fidelity Magellan Mutual Fund for the John M. Jenks Graduate
Scholarship in the School of Business Administration _15,460
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts ~_100,000
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for research in the School of Business Administration _...8,334
Kajima Foundation, Inc., Flat Rock
for scholarships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning _..5,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering                                   31,600
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Historical Center for the Health Sciences..68,876
John G. Kirk, Santa Barbara, California
for the Lawton Fellowship in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _._6,000
Kitch, Saurbier, Drutchas, Wagner & Kenney, P.C., Detroit
for the University Musical Society _.7,500
Kraft General Foods, Inc., Glenview, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration __ 65,000
David T. Krom, Novi
for the Jason Krom Memorial Scholarship _.5,000
Richard P. Kughn, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics...............................25,000
Lloyd J. Lemmen, Muskegon
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School......5,000
Leonard Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Foundation of New York
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan _6.........5,000


185




December Meeting, 1992
Julie H. Levy, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...-...-..-..- 7,000
Richard A. Lewis, West Bloomfield
for thoracic surgery support in the Medical School -..                       6,000
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for biochemistry research in the Medical School _                         -.8,750
Louisiana Land and Exploration Company Foundation, New Orleans, Louisiana
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts ---.5,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......- 17,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Schools of Dentistry, Medicine, and Public Health and in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _............67,500
Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Marion Merrell Dow Dean's Discretionary Fund in the College of Pharmacy -..50,000
May Department Stores Company Foundation, Saint Louis, Missouri
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration and for the Class
of 1938 Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..-20,000
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, Saint Louis, Missouri
for the McDonnell Douglas Scholarship and the Minority Engineering Program in
the College of Engineering......     19,000
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Akron, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Law School _.__..8,500
McLaren Regional Medical Center, Flint
for the Max Ronald Burnell Resident Fellowship Trust Fund in the Medical School._.29,250
Andrew A. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for database development in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
and for support of the Michigan Historical Collections.......................... 10,000
Susan Blanch Meister, Northhampton, New Hampshire
for the Susan Blanch Meister Endowment for Child Health Policy Initiatives in
the School of Nursing...........-_....5,000
Mette Foundation, Detroit
for scholarships in the School of Dentistry and for the Norman Mette Scholarship
in the Medical School _.....................100,000
Micro Vesicular Systems Division of ICI, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire
for research in the College of Pharmacy _......... 15,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering ~_5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., Saint Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering and in the
Medical School.................._..~.13,900
Feliciano F. Miravite, Makati Manila, Philippines
for the Cecil Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts _                                                               5,000
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Stears Collection of Musical Instruments in the School of Music and for
the Museum of Art _..__6,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute _25,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.._............10,063
Nutra Sweet Company, Skokie, Illinois
for research in the School of Public Health _0.....~........20,000
Orthopedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the Medical School _~....~.~.....18,862
Russell J. Osterman, Pasadena, California
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics _.........      25,000
Oxfordshire Health Authority, Headington, Oxford, England
for the Dorothy Salibian Donabedian Endowed Fund for Community Health
Nursing in the School of Nursing _                                           8,485
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for geological sciences research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 25,000
Jeffry M. & Barbara Picower Foundation, New York, New York
for the Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts -_ 5,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _......      15,000


186




December Meeting, 1992


Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Price Waterhouse Professorship in the School of Business Administration....... 30,000
Millard H. Pryor, Jr., Westford, Connecticut
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  __....25,000
Pursell-Congress Committee, Plymouth
for the Carl Pursell Endowed Nursing Research Fund in the School of Nursing _.0.30,000
Schhumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schhumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship and other fellowships in
the College of Engineering _._.-.21,000
Marlene Anne Schulhauser, San Francisco, California
for the Edward V. Schulhauser Scholarship in Civil Engineering, College of
Engineering................16,000
Anna Frances Schwinck Estate
for the John Joseph Schwinck II Student Aid Fund _-_._-..._....__.347,000
Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Charles Ward Seabury Research Fellowship in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning...      10,000
Jeanne M. Seeley, Ann Arbor
for the John C. Seeley Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering -.-.......10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for employee matching gifts.......       13,350
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
2,000 shares of Barnett Banks common stock and cash gift of $100,000 for the
Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting, the Marching Band Enrichment Fund,
and the Elbel Club/Marching Band Fund in the School of Music..............................185,625
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School.1... 10,620
William T. Smith, Fort Worth, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts ....6,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...30,855
Ralph P. Stevens, Coldwater
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics  _ _........7,500
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern Masonic
Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Funds in the Medical School _......28,750
Toledo Community Foundation, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
for research in the Medical School..- 10,000
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for support in the College of Engineering...34,000
Unisys Corporation, Plymouth
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Fund in the College of Engineering.5,000
University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship Fund, Birmingham
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit Football Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics _.~_._,                                          12,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for the Parke-Davis/Warner-Lambert Fellowship for Nursing Research, in the
School of Nursing                              _.8,800
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis professorships in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and the Medical School and for the Warner-Lambert/
Parke-Davis fellowships and student aid funds in the Medical School, College of
Pharmacy, and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies     _.       550,000
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner scholarships in the School of Education and in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts _.9,194
Roy E. Weber, Ann Arbor
2,000 shares of Great Lakes Bancorp common stock for the Medical Center......20,750
Westmedia Charitable Foundation, Longview, Washington
for the Wallace House Maintenance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies5,000
Margaret V. Whelan Estate
for the Student Nurse Activity Endowment Fund in the School of Nursing and for
support of the Medical School ~_7,623
Max E. Wildman, Lake Bluff, Illinois
200 shares of IVAX Corporation common stock for the Wildman, Harrold, Allen
& Dixon Scholarship in the Law School                  ~.......5,975


187




December Meeting, 1992


M. Irene Woodman, Ann Arbor
for the Nursing Skills Laboratory Fund in the School of Nursing..5,000
Ronald J. Woods, North Palm Beach, Florida
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics............ 10,000
Xerox Corporation, Rochester, New York
for the Chemical Engineering Faculty Award in the College of Engineering  --  10,000
Jack Zachary, Carmel, Indiana
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.-           12,500
Wolverine Tower
Regarding the purchase of the Wolverine Tower, Regent Baker asked for a
copy of the appraisal and the letter of support from Johnson Johnson & Roy/inc.
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSORSHIP RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Arvind Atreya, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Thomas C. Hales, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, September 1, 1993
Daniel E. Koditschek, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Betsy Lozoff, M.D., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicae
Kiumi Akingbehin, Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure, and
Acting Chair, Department of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn,
reappointed Acting Chair, Department of Computer and Information Science, one-year
term
George R. Carignan, Associate Dean for Graduate Education and Research, College of
Engineering, reappointed Associate Dean for Graduate Education and Research, two-year
term, February 1, 1993
Lynn A Conway, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Associate Dean for Instruction and Instructional Technology College of Engineering,
reappointed Associate Dean for Instruction and Instructional Technology, one-year term
Colin Day, Director of the University of Michigan Press, reappointed Director of the University
of Michigan Press, five-year term, January 4,1993
Ivan F. Duff, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, one-year
term
Hyman Kornbluh, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to active status,
winter term 1993
Shaw Livermore, Professor Emeritus of History, reappointed to active status, winter term 1993
Richard L. Malvin, Professor Emeritus of Physiology, reappointed to active status, one-year term
James A McLean, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
Garry R. Walz, Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to active status, winter term 1993


188




December Meeting, 1992


Sidney Warschausky, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, UM-Dearborn,
reappointed to active status, fall term 1993
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OF TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1993, unless otherwise indiated
S. Roland Drayson, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, also
appointed Interim Chair, Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences,
six-month term
Sherman A James, Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, three-year term, July 1, 1993
Janet A Weiss, Professor of Organizational Behavior and Public Policy, with tenure, also
appointed as Associate Dean of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, three-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
Ann Arbor Summer Festival Inc.
Rosalie A Edwards, three-year term ending October 31, 1995, to succeed herself
Helen A Peters, three-year term ending October 31, 1995, to succeed herself
James S. Reece, three-year term ending October 31, 1995, to succeed himself
Thomas J. Schriber, three-year term ending October 31, 1995, to succeed himself
Estelle Titiev, three-year term ending October 31, 1995, to succeed herself
Frank C. Williams, Jr., three-year term ending October 31, 1995, University representative
Collee of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
James C. Snyder, appointment extended through June 30, 1993
Institute of Gerontoloy Executive Board
Charles A Cain, three-year term ending December 31, 1995, vice Irwin J. Goldstein, term
expired
Edward J. Frey Professorship in Banking. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Edward J. Frey Professorship in Banking, effective January
1, 1993.
Harvey C. Fruehauf Professor of Business Administration                 The
Regents approved the appointment of C. K Prahalad as the Harvey C. Fruehauf
Professor of Business Administration for a five-year term, effective January 1,
1993.
Max McGraw Professorship in Corporate Environmental Management. The Regents approved the establishment of the Max McGraw Professorship in Corporate Environmental Management, effective January 1, 1993.
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professorship of Pharmacy. The Regents
approved the establishment of the Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professorship of
Pharmacy, effective January 1, 1993.
Assistant Vice Provost for Academic Affairs The Regents approved
the additional title of assistant vice provost for academic affairs for Susan S.
Lipschutz, senior associate dean of the Rackham School of Graduate Studies and


189




December Meeting, 1992


adjunct associate professor of philosophy in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts for a five-year term, effective January 1, 1993.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicted
Colege of Enineerin
Carlos H. Mastrangelo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, January 1, 1993
School of Dentistr
Ronald C. Stewart, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1992
Colege of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Dwight L. Fontenot, M.S.E., Lecturer II in Psychology, September 1, 1992
Terry D. Holmes, BA, Lecturer I in Psychology, September 1, 1992
Alina U. Makin, BA, Lecturer I in Russian, November 5, 1992
Christoph F. Schmidt, Doktor, Assistant Professor of Physics, November 1, 1992
Frank W. Thompson, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Economics, January 1, 1993
School of Nursing
Joanne M. Pohl, M.S.N., Assistant Professor of Nursing, December 1, 1992
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
CoUeee of iterature Science, and the Arts
Theresa L. Deussen, from Lecturer I to Graduate Student Teaching Assistant in Sociology
Nancy G. Thomas, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Psychology, September 1, 1992
Medicai School
Kwok Leung Lam, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology,
November 1, 1992
Lisa L. Leininger, from Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, to Lecturer in Psychiatry,
Medical School, and Lecturer in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Jonathan A Sugar, from Lecturer in Psychiatry to Lecturer in Psychiatry and Lecturer in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, September 1, 1992
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Colleee of Enineering
Spilios D. Fassois, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1993


190




December Meeting, 1992


Paul B. Hays, Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced Technology, Professor of Aerospace
Engineering, with tenure, Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with
tenure, and Chair, Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, extended sick
leave, September 23-October 31, 1992
Ramesh C. Jain, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, leave
without salary, January 1-December 31, 1993
Collee of Literature Science, and the Arts
Maria A Bacigalupo, Lecturer I in Spanish, extended sick leave, September 22 -November 30, 1992
Robert B. Barsky, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Helen J. Morley, Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Kaori K Ohara, Lecturer III in Asian Languages and Cultures, leave without salary,
October 19, 1992-May 31, 1993
Ilene T. Olken, Professor of Italian, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31,1993
Crispin J. Wright, James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, research
leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Medical School
Allan C. Brown, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, without tenure, and Associate Professor
of Anesthesiology, without tenure, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 1993
Theodore V. Fischer, Associate Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May31, 1993
Donald K MacCallum, Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, Medical School, and Associate
Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry, duty off campus, April 1 -June 30, 1993
Mindy A Smith, Associate Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-November 30, 1992
School of Public Health
James S. Koopman, Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences. and Letters
Elizabeth Crowell, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1992-April 30, 1993
UM-Dearborn School of Engineering
Paul K Trojan, Professor of Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 22-December 31, 1992
UM-Flint Colege of Arts and Sciences
Vincent C. O'Keeffe, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
UM-Flint School of Management
Clark E. Chastain, Professor of Accounting, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1993
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Colleg of Engineerin
Spilios D. Fassois, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, cancellation of sabbatical leave (previously reported as September 1, 1992 -May 31, 1993)


191




December Meeting, 1992


CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literatur  Science, and the Arts
John H. Humphrey, Professor of Classical Archaeology and Latin, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave, January 1-May 31,1993 (previously reported as research leave)
Medical School
Fedor Medzihradsky, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, and Professor of
Pharmacology, without tenure, duty off campus, November 1, 1992-April 30, 1993
(previously reported as scholarly activity leave)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31,1992, unless otherwise indicated
Colege of Architecture and Urban Planning
Donna M. Salzer, Assistant Professor of Architecture, October 24, 1992
Center for Human Growth and Development
Stanley M. Garn, Professor of Nutrition, Department of Community Health Programs, with
tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of Anthropology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
School of Education
Frederick W. Bertolaet, Professor of Education, with tenure
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
David W. Masser, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Aleksandra L. Rozentals, Lecturer in French, November 3, 1992
Medical School
Steven R. Cohen, Assistant Professor of Surgery, November 20, 1992
Elizabeth A Garofalo, Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
November 13, 1992
Edward J. McGuire, Professor of Surgery, with tenure
School of Music
Timothy M. Millett, Lecturer in Dance, November 16, 1992
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the following retirement memoirs.
Frederick W. Bertolaet, professor of education, will retire from active
faculty status on December 31, 1992, after 26 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Professor Bertolaet received his B.Ed. degree from Wisconsin State University in 1951 and his M.S. and PLhD. degrees from the University of Wisconsin in
1958 and 1964, respectively. From 1953-60, he worked as a teacher or principal
in various Wisconsin schools, and from 1962-66, he served as executive secretary
of the Research Council of the Great Cities Program for School Improvement in
Chicago. Professor Bertolaet joined the faculty of the University of Michigan
School of Education as an assistant professor in 1966; he was promoted to
associate professor in 1968 and to fill professor in 1970. He served as assistant


192




December Meeting, 1992


dean of the School of Education from 1972-73 and as associate dean from
1973-79.
At the School of Education, Professor Bertolaet taught courses in educational administration and supervision and worked extensively with graduate students on their doctoral research. He served as director of the Detroit High School
Study from 1966-68; chaired the Program in Educational Administration and Supervision from 1970-72; served as project director of the EPDA Administrative
Training Program with the Detroit Public Schools from 1971-74; and co-directed
the National Program for the Study of Collective Negotiations in Education from
1972-78. Professor Bertolaet also served on the University of Michigan-Detroit
Public Schools Liaison Committee, GEO bargaining teams, the Senate Assembly,
and the University of Michigan Library Council.
During his career, Professor Bertolaet was very active in professional organizations, including the American Association of School Administrators, the
American Educational Research Association, the Association for Supervision and
Curriculum Development, and the NEA Task Force on Urban Education. His
scholarly work appeared in such publications as the Review of Educational Research, Encyclopedia of Educational Research, and the 66th Yearbook of the National Society for the Study of Education.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Frederick W. Bertolaet Professor Emeritus of Education.
Francis D. Bundra, professor of music (viola), retired from active faculty
status on October 31, 1992.
Professor Bundra was born in Northampton, Pennsylvania, and received
his early education there. He enrolled at West Chester State College in 1945, but
his studies were interrupted by service in the U.S. Army from 1945-47. He then
re-enrolled at West Chester State College and graduated with his B.S. degree in
public school music teaching in 1950. He taught in the public schools in Camden,
New Jersey, from 1950-52, gave private lessons in Philadelphia from 1952-53,
and resumed viola studies at the New School of Music in Philadelphia during
1953-54.
From 1954-63, Professor Bundra taught in the public schools in Rochester,
New York, while simultaneously completing his M.Mus. degree and Performer's
Certificate at the Eastman School of Music (1957) and performing as violist in
the Rochester Philharmonic Orchestra. He taught violin and chamber music at
the Interlochen Arts Academy and its summer National Music Camp from
1963-65. Professor Bundra came to the University of Michigan as a visiting lecturer in 1965. He was appointed assistant professor in 1966, and was promoted
to associate professor in 1968, and professor in 1970.
Professor Bundra offered skilled and dedicated teaching in the School of
Music, and made substantial contributions.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Francis D. Bundra
Professor Emeritus of Music.
Stanley M. Garn, professor of anthropology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, professor of nutrition in the School of Public Health, and


193




December Meeting, 1992


fellow in the Center for Human Growth and Development, will retire from active
faculty status on December 31, 1992.
Professor Garn received his AB., AM. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard
University in 1942, 1947, and 1948, respectively. He taught anthropology at Harvard from 1948-52, and then went to Yellow Springs, Ohio, where he served as
chair of growth and development at the Fels Research Institute and professor of
anthropology at Antioch College. Professor Garn came to the University of
Michigan in 1968 as a fellow in the Center for Human Growth and Development
and professor of health development (later nutrition) in the School of Public
Health. He was named professor of anthropology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts in 1973.
A scholar with catholic and encompassing interests, Professor Garn was
ideally suited to work in a center designed for interdisciplinary study. The author
of approximately 900 publications, he is an internationally recognized authority
in many areas of human development, and has made many important contributions to the study of growth of low-birth-weight infants, the relation of genetics
to tooth development, nutrition in human growth and development, and osteoporosis and aging. One way to describe the breadth and scope of his interest is to
note that when he was offered the position as fellow at the Center for Human
Growth and Development, six different departments in four schools and colleges
at the University were prepared to give him a tenured professorship. Throughout
all of his wide-ranging research studies, several themes persist: the interactions
of nutrition and genetics during growth and aging, racial and gender differences
in growth and morphology, and evolutionary dynamics. His research and academic leadership have made him one of the most respected physical anthropologists in the world today.
Professor Garn's prestigious honors and awards include membership in the
National Academy of Science, fellowship in the American Academy of Pediatrics,
numerous lectureships, and the University of Michigan's Distinguished Faculty
Achievement Award. However, his two greatest achievements may be his unusual record of research publications and his having supervised more than 40 Ph.D.
students who have gone on to illustrious careers of their own.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Stanley M. Garn Professor Emeritus of Anthropology, Professor Emeritus of
Nutrition, and Fellow Emeritus in the Center for Human Growth and Development.
Richard L. Malvin, professor of physiology, will retire from active faculty
status on December 31, 1992, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Brooklyn, New York, Professor Malvin received his B.Sc. degree
from McGill University in 1950, his M.S. degree from New York University in
1953, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Cincinnati in 1956. He joined
the University of Michigan as a research associate in 1956, and was appointed instructor in the Department of Physiology in 1957. He was promoted to assistant
professor of physiology in 1959, associate professor in 1964, and professor in
1967.


194




December Meeting, 1992


A renal physiologist of distinction, Professor Malvin was one of the originators (with Walter Wilde and Lawrence Sullivan) of the stop-flow technique, a
method of localizing function in nephrons. Although he has been active in many
areas of renal physiology, he is best known for his work on the role of renin and
angiotensin. He found that there are multiple forms of renin and demonstrated
the central nervous system action of angiotensin. He has contributed significantly to the study of the relation of renin and angiotensin to hypertension.
Professor Malvin has taught medical students and graduate students and is
known for his popular undergraduate course on quackery and fakery in medicine
and science. A large number of today's renal physiologists received their training
in Professor Malvin's laboratory.
In addition to research and teaching, Professor Malvin has been active on
University and national committees and has served on the editorial boards of
scientific journals. He is one of the founders of the American Society of Nephrology. Another major contribution has been his activist role in the Michigan Society
for Medical Research, first as chair of the Public Information Committee and
then as president of the society.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator by naming
Richard L. Malvin Professor Emeritus of Physiology.
Memorial Statements
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month
Degrees
There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Oil and Gas Investment
Regent Nielsen moved that $5 million of the University Endowment Fund
be committed to the Cheyenne V/Royalty V oil investment program, pending the
general counsel's review of the legal documents. Regent Power seconded the motion, and following some discussion, it was adopted unanimously.
Venture Capital Investments
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved commitments of the University Endowment Fund to the
following venture capital investments: $10 million to Sprout Growth II, L.P.; $2
million to Sequoia Capital VI, L.P.; and $1 million to Mayfield VII, L.P.
Parking Structure Office Building Project; North Entrance Parking
Structure, Cancer and Geriatrics Centers
Regent Baker moved approval of the revised budget and design of the Parking Structure Office Building, as described in the Regents Communication and
previously presented; approval of the revised budgets and scheduling for the
North Entrance Parking Structure and Cancer and Geriatrics Centers projects;
and revised scope of the Parking Structure project Regent Nielsen seconded the
motion, and following some discussion, it was approved unanimously.


195




December Meeting, 1992


1239 Kipke Drive Building Renovations
On   motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
nanimously approved renovations to the 1239 Kipke Drive Building, as described in the Regents Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: Annual classroom
renovations; utility tunnel replacement; and Stockwell Hall elevator replacement.
Purchase Agreement between the University of Michigan and Universal Algorithms, Inc. (UAI)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, all seven regents
present unanimously approved a purchase agreement between the University
Registrar's Office and University Algorithms, Inc. (UAI). Because one of the
stockholders in the UAI (Bernard A Galler) is also a University employee, this
agreement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract (purchase) will be the Regents of the University of
Michigan and Universal Algorithms, Inc. (UAI).
2.  The terms of the contract (purchase) include that UAI provide to the Registrar's Office a) one Schedule 25 Software, Model I, capacity for 390 classrooms;
b) one Schedule 25E Software, Model C, for a maximum of 22 users; and c) licensing agreements for both models for one year at a cost totaling $27,864.
3.  Bernard A. Galler's pecuniary interest arises from his position as a stockholder
in Universal Algorithms, Inc.
Modified Standard Assignment Agreement between the University of
Michigan and Agranoff, Conti4 and Rich (deceased)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved reassignment of the inventions "Scintillation Multiplexer" (UM  files 159 and 159c1) and "Multi-Sample Scintillation Counter Using
Position-Sensitive Detector" (UM file 461). Because the inventors are also University employees, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of Michigan and
Bernard W. Agranoff, Ralph S. Conti, and Arthur Rich (deceased).
2.  Terms of the contract include standard terms previously disclosed to and approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, with one exception: in accordance with
the 1986 assignment agreement between the parties, the University's share of
any future royalties will be 7.5 percent rather than 15 percent.


196




December Meeting, 1992


Resolution in Honor of Bernard Klein
Regent Power moved adoption of the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents are once again indebted to Dr. Bernard Klein for his
service as interim chancellor of the Dearborn campus since September of
this year.
As he did in 1979-80, Dr. Klein has once again brought his managerial skills to the task of maintaining this campus on an even keel
while a new chancellor was recruited and installed. And once again, he
went well beyond "maintaining an even keel" and, even in this short
period, sustained the momentum of the campus and added impetus to
its efforts to move forward with many critical decisions.
The Regents commend this valued member of the faculty and periodic administrator for his dedicated service to the Dearborn campus
and to the University generally.
The words of the immortal Yogi Berra, New York Yankee catcher,
were never more appropriate: "It's sorta like deja vu all over again. 
Thanks Bernie for ajob well done,... again.
There followed a round of applause. Chancellor Klein made some comments
and thanked the Regents.
Resolution in Honor of Regent Smith
Regent Baker moved adoption of the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan extend their warm greetings and deep gratitude to their friend and colleague, Veronica Latta
Smith, as she concludes eight years of dedicated service to the faculty,
staff, and students of the University.
Few Regents, past or present, can point to a lifetime that is so closely tied to the University of Michigan and dedicated to efforts on its behalf Beginning with her own graduation in 1948 and subsequent
graduate studies, her life has been continually marked with service to
this institution. Membership on the Martha Cook Board of Governors,
the Martha Cook Alumni Association, the University of Michigan Alumni Association, the President's Club, and life membership in the University of Michigan's Women's Athletic Association are but a few examples
of her efforts which culminated, of course, with her role as Regent for
the past eight years.


197




December Meeting, 1992


And, throughout all of this University activity, Regent Smith has
maintained a full and active business and professional career. Over the
years, she has served as a teacher and insurance executive, as well as a
commercial real estate developer and manager.
It is not surprising that Regent Smith's special concern as Regent
was students. Her efforts on their behalf were surely an extension of her
own family's interest: she and her husband, Stewart, and their six
children share twelve different degrees from the University of Michigan.
The dedication she displayed on behalf of her own children was especially appreciated by the students she served as Regent of the University.
The Regents happily commend this splendid woman of Michigan,
applaud her many accomplishments, thank her for her service to the
University, and proudly install Veronica Latta Smith as Regent Emeritus of the University of Michigan.
President Duderstadt thanked Regent Smith for her years of service, and
presented her with a Regents Medal There followed a round of applause.
Comments by Regent Smith. Regent Smith said that she had enjoyed
serving and working with everyone for the past eight years. She noted that
Regents-elect Deitch and McGowan had pledged to the students that they would
hold the Regents accountable to students. She also thanked students and the
Michigan Daily for their support, and thanked Jeff Rowe for writing the editorial
praising her service as Regent. She said that she would continue her association
with the University as a Regent Emeritus, and thanked the people of Michigan
for providing her the opportunity to serve these past eight years.
Comments from MSA. President Duderstadt calle to the table Ms. Ede
Fox, president of MSA, and Mr. Hunter Van Valkenberg, executive vice president
of MSA. Ms. Fox stated that MSA had passed a resolution in honor of Regent
Smith. She thanked Regent Smith for her support and stated that she and the
other executive officers of MSA were there to show appreciation for her fairness
while serving on the Board. She particularly noted Regent Smith's support for
policies that affect students, such as deputization, the nonacademic code of conduct, and changes in the Board of Student Publications. Ms. Fox observed that
over the years, students have worked hard to express their opinions but that the
administration had often contradicted student opinions. She said that Regent
Smith had been a "beacon of light" in these specific instances, and she noted that
Regent Smith had always advocated having issues that affect students be decided
upon when students were on campus and aware of the issue under consideration.
She expressed hope that in the future, other Regents would consider student decisions seriously before deciding policy.
Mr. Van Valkenberg then presented the MSA resolution to Regent Smith.
Resolution in Honor of Regent Nielsen
Regent Brown then moved the following resolution:


198




December Meeting, 1992


Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University warmly salute and commend their
fellow Regent, Neal D. Nielsen, as he completes eight years of devoted
service as a member of the University's governing board.
His association with the University began as an undergraduate at
Michigan, where he received his bachelor's degree. After graduate work
at Western Michigan University, he entered law school and earned his
L.L.B. at Detroit College of Law.
Regent Nielsen's experience and expertise have been especially
helpful during this period in the history of the University, which has
seen many difficult priority decisions brought on by funding shortfalls
and changing revenue patterns. He was especially sensitive to keeping a
University education within the financial reach of all Michigan citizens.
Yet he realized that the quality of the University could not be compromised. He sought instead to maintain quality through prioritization
and the development of alternative revenue sources.
As a particular champion of the University's Flint campus, Regent
Nielsen saw in that institution another way of maintaining access to a
University of Michigan education, especially for students in that region
of the state. He was tireless in his interest and support of the activities
on that campus, and he did so without in any way slighting the other
campuses of the University.
Regent Nielsen has maintained a full professional practice and is
a recognized leader in his home community of Brighton. The Regents
are grateful that the institution they all serve has been the beneficiary of
the dedication of this distinguished public servant. And in recognition,
they are pleased to name Neal D. Nielsen Regent Emeritus of the University of Michigan.
President Duderstadt expressed the University's gratitude for Regent Nielsen's years of service, and presented him with the Regents' Medal. There followed a round of applause.
Comments by Regent Nielsen. Regent Nielsen stated that his eight
years of service had been very enjoyable, especially his association with the numerous administrators, faculty, and students he had worked with. He said he'd
enjoyed watching the medical facilities grow over the past few years, and his involvement in the growth and development of the research industry in the area
had made him proud to be affiliated with the institution and a resident of the
state of Michigan. Regent Nielsen commented that he was gratified by what has
happened at the University during his tenure, and looked forward to staying involved in the years to come.
There followed a ten-minute recess, after which the Regents reconvened in
executive session at 3:10 P.M.


199




December Meeting, 1992


Following the executive session, there being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:30 PM. The next meeting will be held on January 21 and
22, 1992. Regents' transportation, accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous
expenses for the month of November 1992 totalled $999.35.
rd LKe      nney, Sece ry


200




JANUARY MEETING, 1993


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 21, 1993
The Regents met at 1:15 PM. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McGowan, Power, and Waters.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Renick Regent McFee arrived shortly after the start of the meeting,
Regent Varner was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and welcomed Regents
Rebecca McGowan and Laurence Deitch and UM-Dearborn Chancellor James
Renick to their first Regents' Meeting.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Deitch made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on
January 21, 1993, in the Regents' Room, immediately following Public
Comments, for the purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding
trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of November 19-20, 1992.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of December 17-18, 1992.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations, and Non-competitive
Purchases over $2,000 from October 1-December 31, 1992. Vice President Kelly
submitted reports of Projects Established-Research and Other Activities and
Summaries of a Selection of Current Research. On a motion by Regent Waters,
seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report on Voluntary Support for the
month of December 1992. Regent Brown pointed out that nearly 52 percent of


201




January Meeting, 1993


the total gifts received so far in fiscal year 1992-93 are from outside of the state of
Michigan. The Regents received the following gifts, with thanks, and in accord
with their terms and conditions:
AMAX Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for AMAX Scholarships and Fellowships in the College of Engineering _.. 12,000
ASDA Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School _                                -._.150,000
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering........14,936
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...24,88
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and the College of Pharmacy __....._...........162,136
American Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration _.....5,000
American Society of Hematology, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School _.................7,500
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships, fellowships, and other support in the College of Engineering -..  40,021
Anjoy Research, Inc., Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration  -_-.....25,000
Aplastic Anemia Foundation of America, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                       6.......,260
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                        -.....13,833
Automotive Moulding Company, Warren
for unrestricted support of the Law School _25,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Baldwin Fellowship in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _.10,000
Richard C. Bauer, Madisonville, Kentucky
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School _5..,                000
Robert A. Baumgartner, Moraga, California
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _.6,000
Flora N. Beck Estate
for the Glenn McGeoch Memorial Scholarship in the School of Music _..10,000
Ralph E. Bennett Post 29 Amvets, Mount Clemens
for burn research and education in the Medical School_     110,534
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship._                       39,916
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for a Dean's Discretionary Endowment Fund in the Law School.25,000
Bixby Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Business Administration, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Department of Athletics _7,000
Herbert E. Blight, Southfield
335 shares of NBD Bancorp common stock for student loans and other support in
the School of Dentistry _..9,924
Peter F. Borish, New York, New York
for the Institute of Public Policy Studies.__.10,000
Lee L. Boysel, Los Gatos, California
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering._.10,000
Bristol-Myers/Zimmer Orthopaedic Grant Program, Warsaw, Indiana
for orthopaedic research in the Medical School                             5-.60,000
Brown-Monson Foundation, Bedford, New Hampshire
for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law School.6,000
Jean W. Campbell Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Center for the Education of Women _.5,000
Chang Family Trust, Pacific Palisades, California
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration ____  10,000
David G. Chardavoyne, Farmington Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _.60,           000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts  _.9          7,090


202




January Meeting, 1993


Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the School of Art, the Associates Program, School of Business Administration,
and for minority and female scholarships, College of Engineering...19,000
Citibank, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration          MA..... 10,000
Alice S. Corey, Altadena, California
for the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                   i.-6,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA., Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...........33,229
Mary Fair Croushore Trust
for the Mary Fair Croushore Funds....._....1,200,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School _.-...........33,903
Dennis Dahlmann Properties, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................... 7,600
Anne Ellis DeLaney, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the School of Art................. 6,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for research in the School of Dentistry ___     __.............20,837
Helen L. Dempster Living Trust, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........9,000
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Foundation Funds in the Schools of Business
Administration and Law....................................................10,000
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Center for the Education of Women.....21,000
Arthur Dole III, Winnetka, Illinois
200 shares of Eaton Corporation common stock for Fisher Stadium in the
Department of Athletics  _........15,113
Dow Chemical U.S.A. Midland Division, Midland
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and for
employee matching gifts..          14,240
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, for Plastination Development in
the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts                          35,960
Richard Earhart, Mount Dora, Florida
for the Richard Earhart Scholarship and solar car project, College of Engineering __   100,000
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School _.~50,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering _..10,000
E. C. Fackler, Inc., Dearborn
for support of the University Library __..,000
Robert M. Feinberg Estate
for undergraduate student aid..........6,000
Max M. Fisher, Franklin
for the University of Michigan Hospitals........25,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School....26,000
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School _.6,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Solar Car Project and other research in the College of Engineering, for
the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for the University Musical Society ______208,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, School of Business
Administration._.....~..12,000
Mary Franklin, New York, New York
for the Ruth Morrison Memorial Scholarship Fund            _....................10,000
Fruehauf Foundation, Saint Clair Shores
for the Harvey C. Fruehauf Professorship in the School of Business Administration __300,000
Gannett Company, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for the Michigan Fellows in Journalism, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies _..6,000
John C. Garrett, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Campaign for Michigan _....10,000


203




January Meeting, 1993


General Motors Corporation, Detroit Diesel Allison Division, Detroit
for research in the College of Engineering....,   5....8,600
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the computer-aided engineering network and student aid in the College of
Engineering and for student aid in the Law School._.........320,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Passagrille, Florida
for Tennis Courts in the Department of Athletics _.......5,000
Robert J. Hamman, Wilmette, Illinois
260 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock for the Clyde Johnson Scholarship
in the College of Engineering._                                          ..9,666
John A. Harris, Chevy Chase, Maryland
500 shares of Robert Half International for the School of Business Administration
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  _................7,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School  _...................................78,134
John K Hoyns, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School.5_.,0        00
Intel Corporation, Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Fund in the College of Engineering..-..5,000
Verne G. Istock, Bloomfield Hills
371 shares of NBD Bancorp common stock for the C.A.M.P. Fund, Alumni Association... 10,968
Maijorie M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
for the Entrepreneurial Initiatives in Nursing Systems Fund, School of Nursing  -.....20,000
Jacobson Stores, Inc., Jackson
for the University Musical Society......................................10,000
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........__....92,600
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry ....... 10,000
Thomas H. Jeffs II, Grosse Pointe Farms
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration.....9,680
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.-............... 134,361
Barbara Kacir, Cleveland, Ohio
for the William J. Brattin Scholarship in the Law School..6,                 00 0
Stella Kaufman Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Geriatrics Center in the Medical School                              7..7,000
William R. Kelly, Troy
42,755 shares of various corporate common stocks and cash gift of $444,874
for the William R. Kelly Professorship in the School of Business Adxidistration __.1,187,932
George W. Keros, Detroit
540 shares of Union Pacific Corporation common stock for research and other
support in the College of Engineering....31,75               4
David E. Krehbiel, Ann Arbor
400 shares of Cincinnati Bell common stock for the building fund and other support
in the School of Social Work, the University Musical Society, and WUOM/WVGR -...6,725
Francis B. Kulp, Jr., Ann Arbor
120 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock for the Class of 1964 Faculty
Endowment in the Law School _..._,078
D. Bruce Laing, Dowagiac
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..0,   000
Lillian Levy Trust, Farmington Hills
for the Norman Levy Research Fund in the Medical School...10,000
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the M. B. Landers, Sr. Memorial Fund in the Medical School __20,000
Robert A. Line, Rochester Hills
for the Stark/Line Dean's Merit Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts ___-______.6,600
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Business and Industrial Assistance Fund, School of Business Administration __70,200
Fred W. Lyons, Jr., Mission Hills, Kansas
9,615 shares of Marion Merrell Dow common stock for the Fred W. Lyons, Jr.,
Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy _-.....254,197
David R. MacDonald, Bethesda, Maryland
for unrestricted capital gifts in the Law School..6,0 0 0
Emanuel N. Maisel Marital Trust, Farmington Hills
for the Emanuel N. Maisel Funds in the Medical School._6...600.000


204




January Meeting, 1993


March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School _........7,500
Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the College of Pharmacy _...,                    0.......,000
Betty Jo Mayer, Rancho Palos Verdes, California
for research in the School of Public Health _... _1....1...0,000
Mazda North America, Inc., Irvine, California
for driver positioning research in the Transportation Research Institute  26   26,000
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, Saint Louis, Missouri
for the McDonnell Douglas Scholarship and other support, College of Engineering.....19,000
James S. McDonnell Foundation, Saint Louis, Missouri
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _......  60,000
Mclnerney Leasing, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  _...............  20,000
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
200 shares of Sara Lee Corporation common stock for support in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
Museum of Art, University Musical Society, and WUOM/WVGR.      _  __...    12,060
Mildred E. McKeen Trust
for student aid __...188,321
Metropolitan Life Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education.....__.............................................0,000
Michigan Mutual Insurance Company, Detroit
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration......... 7,00
Michigan National Corporation, Farmington Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.........35,000
Molecular Biosystems, Inc., San Diego, California
for pharmacology support in the Medical School.............................9,190
Inez S. Monaweck, Denver, Colorado
for research in the Medical School _.__.5__._....,000
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _....20,000
Virginia Patton Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Center for the Education of Women _.5__.__..._..,000
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for the Mary E. Mulholland Fund _65,919
Muscular Dystrophy Associations, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School _34,250
William K Najar, Grand Rapids
for the School of Dentistry _        __             _.__.20,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
200 shares of Wesco Financial Corporation common stock; for the Risk Management
Professorship in the School of Business Administration __..............15,275
John H. Niemeyer, Town and Country, Missouri
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts __.__ 65,000
Donald E. Nordlund, Barrington Hills, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School..____.6,000
Plough Foundation, Memphis, Tennessee
for the Plough Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy A p....45,000
Herbert and Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Education _6.....~16,000
Pryor Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Mary S. Pryor Fund for Foreign Correspondence, Michigan Journalism
Fellows Program........160,000
Ahmad Rahbar, Wheeling, West Virginia
for support of the Medical School.~_56,000
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
220 shares of Enrol Oil and Gas Company common stock and cash gift of $1,000
for history of art support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
ophthalmology support in the Medical School                 ~....7,366
Barbara Richardson, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Barbara Trytten Richardson Graduate Student Aid Fund and other support
in the School of Art                          ~......51,000
Salwill Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Campaign for Michigan                        ~...21,660


205




January Meeting, 1993


Edward I. Schalon, Naples, Florida
2,485 shares of SPX Corporation common stock for golf course restoration in the
Department of Athletics AA                z_5.._. 0,        0,632
Glenn E. Schembechler, Ann Arbor
for adrenal cancer research in the Medical School, in memory of Millie Schembechler....20,000
Schering-Plough Foundation, Madison, New Jersey
for the Plough Scholarship and the Building Fund in the College of Pharmacy. -..95,000
Albert M. Serra, Waterford
for research in the Medical School.10,000
Benson P. and Norma L. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
520 shares of Staples, Inc., common stock for the Colleges of Engineering and
Literature, Science, and the Arts and for minority student scholarships............19,500
Edwin N. Sidman, Newton, Massachusetts
for the Paula and Edwin Sidman Fellows in the Arts Fund, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts __.....20,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................,000
Philip L. Smith, Mount Sunapee, New Hampshire
447 shares of Bank of Boston Corporation common stock for the School of Business
Administration......_.10,                                                    197
Roger B. Smith Fund of the Community Foundation for South East Michigan, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration...................... 5,000
Richard C. Sneed, Lyndhurst, Ohio
100 shares of TRW, Incorporated common stock for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund
in the Law   School..............................5,713
Star Enterprise, Houston, Texas
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering.....................5,000
Christopher J. Steffen, North Oaks, Minnesota
290 shares of Honeywell Corporation common stock for the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                    -.____._..19,811
Roy L. Steinheimer, Jr., Lexington, Virginia
for unrestricted support of the Law School _.5,000
Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
for the Museum of Art Special Exhibitions Fund                  6..5,000
Victor L. Streeter, Ann Arbor
$10,000 par value Woodhaven Michigan School District Bond for the Victor L.
Streeter Fellowship in the College of Engineering..10,655
Sycamore Fund, Chicago, Illinois
for Teaching Excellence and other support in the School of Business Administration __6,500
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the TRW Faculty Assistanceship Fund and other support in the College of
Engineering and for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration _20,000
Tandy Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas
for employee matching gifts..6,350
Tecumseh Products Company, Tecumseh
for research in the College of Engineering         ~...~5,400
Texaco Services, Inc., Bellaire, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media, College
of Engineering _.   16,500
Robert P. Tierman, Walnut Creek, California
300 shares of BankAmerica Corporation common stock for the Wade H. McCree
Professorship in the Law School                   ~14,325
Joel L. Tonkin Trust, Leawood, Kansas
for unrestricted support of the Law School ~__.5,000
Torrey Foundation, Del Mar, California
for optical sciences research in the College of Engineering __10,250
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
2,401 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock for the Richard F. Towner
Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering _ 131,005
Lynn A. and Ruth Townsend, Birmingham
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship Endowment in the Medical School __ 100,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Margaret Towsley Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women
and the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics __ 3.350,        000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan League Development Fund and the Elbel Club/Marching Band Fund
in the School of Music -~.10.000


206




January Meeting, 1993


Elsie H. Tracy Estate
for the Elsie H. Tracy Fund......................................................7,678
Union Pump Company, Battle Creek
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration..........................................000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................12,500
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts __.................................................... 11,555
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group
for Alumnae Council scholarships in the Alumni Association....,.............................5..................,250
University of Michigan Club of Flint, Flint
for library development and for scholarships, the University of Michigan-Flint............................8,000
Eleanor M. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for unrestricted support of the School of Education.............................................. 5.......5,000
Gary T. Walther, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration.....................................................50,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.......................................... 11,584
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health, the
College of Pharmacy, and the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................................241,000
Peter M. Wege, East Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.........................................5,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall Weinberg Judaic Studies Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts......._.........................6,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Manufacturing Forum Fund in the School of Business Administration........................10,000
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering and in the Schools of Medicine and
Public Health.........................................178,687
Whitby Research, Inc., Richmond, Virginia
for research  in  the Medical School.........................................................................................50,000
Clayton E. Wilhite, New Canaan, Connecticut
388 shares of the Weiss Peck Greer Tudor Fund for the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.__..............................................9,684
Thomas S. and Linda Wilson, Rochester Hills
for the William Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration...6....5,000
Frank B. Womer, Ann Arbor
cash gift for the Frank B. Womer Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the School of Education.........................................10000
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Medical Center                             _................5,000
World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland
for research in the School of Public Health.......................65,200
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the Prechter Scholarship in Literacy, Reading, and Language in the School of
Education and for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.......................50,000
John J. Zachary III, Frankfort, Indiana
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.................................................12,500
Stanley Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School....................................................25,000
Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Business and Industrial Assistance Fund, School of Business Administration........70,200
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Thomas E. Darnton, Bloomfield Hills
a recreational rowing shell with oars, spare parts, and miscellaneous tools for Camp Michigania
Logan W. Hovis, Vienna, West Virginia
a collection of autograph letters and documents of the Civil War era (includes Jefferson Davis,
Ulysses Grant, James Buchanan, Charles Carroll, etc.) for the Clements Library
Intel Corporation, Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
microcomputer hardware and software for the Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science


207




January Meeting, 1993


International Business Machines Corporation, Southfield
sixteen PS/2 Model 90 computer systems, one PS/2 Model 95 computer system with
peripherals, and three laserprinters for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Department of
Mathematics
Susan Kish, New York, New York
Americana and cartographic materials; for the Clements Library
David Mackey, Lansing
approximately 250 items comprising the E. H. Thompson Papers, relating to several mining
companies in Michigan and Canada in the 1840s and 1850s for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value, were received from the following donors:


Richard H. Adler, Ypsilanti
Kathryn M Anderson-Levitt, Dearborn Hts
John Arthos, Jr., Ann Arbor
J. Robert Cairns, Dearborn Hts
Bertha Cohen, Bloomfield Hills
Shirley D. Corcoran, Dearborn Hts
Robert S. Cox, Ann Arbor
Richard E. Cross, Detroit
Brian L. Dunnigan, Youngstown, NY
Fabricating Engineers, Flint
Joy Finkenbiner, Flint
Elaine M. Galoit, Jackson
Frederick W. Gehring, Ann Arbor
Edward M. Gramlich, Ann Arbor
Todd W. Grant, Ann Arbor
Barbara Hill Hammitt, Spring Lake
Mildred R. Hartsook, Ann Arbor
Georgia Campbell Haugh, Ann Arbor


David L. Holmes, Williamsburg, VA
Elizabeth Ingram, Ann Arbor
Bernard W. Klein, Farmington Hills
Randall W. Knight, Redford Township
Frank J. Massey III, Dearborn
McLaren Regional Medical Center, Flint
Jessie Newcomer, Dearborn
Richard E. Nisbett, Ann Arbor
Gary W. Reber, Elgin, Illinois
Richard W. Ryan, Ann Arbor
Irene Stedman, Dearborn Hts
Jeanne Stephenson, Cockeysville, MD
Wolfgang F. Stolper, Ann Arbor
Ann Tierney, Wheaton, Illinois
Robert Vanderkloot, Bloomfield Hills
Barbara D. Von Reis, Middleville
Nan Wells, Bay City
Clarence Wolf, Philadelphia, PA


Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Timothy R. B. Johnson, MD., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, the Bates
Professor of the Diseases of Women and Children, five year term, and Chair, Department of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1993
Norbert Schwarz, PhD., Professor of Psychology
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1993
Nancy Guerra, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychology


208




January Meeting, 1993


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Donald R. Brown, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Director, Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, appointment extended
as Director, Center for Research on earning and Teaching, eight-month term
Samuel K Clark, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
reappointed to active status, one-year term
George R. DeMuth, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to
active status, one-year term
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, reappointed to active status, winter and
fall terms 1993
Harold L. Stahly, Professor Emeritus of Education, UM-Flint, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Jacquelynne S. Eccles, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, also appointed Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education,
five-year term, January 1, 1993
Mark Gersovitz, Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, also appointed Director, Center for Research on Economic Development, two-year
and seven-month term, December 1, 1992
Michael A Savageau, Professor of Chemical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, and Interim Chair,
Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, appointed Chair,
Department of Microbiology and Immunology, February 1, 1993
The following committee appointments were approved:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Martha S. Feldman, three-month term ending December 31, 1992, vice Janet A Weiss, conflict
in fall schedule (correction to previously reported three-year term ending August 8 1995)
Karla T. Taylor, three-month term ending December 31, 1992, vice June M. Howard, on leave
(correction to previously reported three-year term ending August 8, 1995)
University Musical Society
Ronald Cresswell, three-year term ending December 31, 1995, new appointment
Carl A Brauer, Jr., three year term ending December 31, 1995, to succeed himself
Jon Cosovich, retroactive from January 1, 1991, to December 31, 1995, new appointment
Walter Harrison, retroactive from January 1, 1991, to December 31,1995, new appointment
Rebecca McGowan, three year term ending December 31, 1995, to succeed herself
Richard Rogel, three year term ending December 31, 1995, new appointment
Herbert Sloan, three year term ending December 31, 1995, to succeed himself
Edward Surovell, three year term ending December 31, 1995, new appointment
Eileen Weiser, three year term ending December 31, 1995, new appointment
Associate Dean for Curriculum and Student Affairs, School of
Public Health. The Regents approved a change in the appointment of Robert
H. Gray from assistant dean for curriculum to associate dean for curriculum in
the School of Public Health for a three and one-half year period, effective January 1, 1993.


209




January Meeting, 1993


Acting Chair of the Department of Family Practice, Medical
SchooL The Regents approved the appointment of James F. Peggs as acting
chair of the Department of Family Practice in the Medical School for the period
December 29, 1992, through May 4, 1993.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Graham I. Mercer, B.Sc., Lecturer in Business Administration, December 1, 1992
Colee of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Lynne De Benedette, MA, Lecturer II in Russian Literature, January 1, 1993
Medical School
Peter N. Brawn, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, November 1, 1992
Samuel Decanay, M-D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, November 1, 1992
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1993
Medical School
Richard I. Whyte, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Colleee of Litertue. Science, and the Arts
Robert M. Groves, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, duty off campus, November 4,1992 -November 3, 1993
Sonya O. Rose, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Sociology, with tenure, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 1993
Medical School
David M. Williams, M.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
October 1, 1992-March 31,1993
School of Music
David D. Gregory, Associate Professor of Music (computer arts), with tenure, leave without
salary, January 1-May 31,1993
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Charles T. Weber, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994


210




January Meeting, 1993


CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Collee of Literature. Science. and the Arts
William R Alexander, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-December 31, 1993 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1993)
Lawrence S. Bartell, Philip J. Elving Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1993 (previously reported as sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1992, unless otherwise indicated
CoUee- of Enineeritn
Shien-Ming Wu, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, and
J. Reid and Polly Anderson Professor of Manufacturing Technology, October 28,1992
Law School
Julius L. Chambers, Professor of Law
Collee of Literature. Science. and the Arts
Gregory D. Bothun, Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, May 31, 1992
Thomas J. Garbaty, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Anne K Gramberg, Lecturer in Gemanic Languages and Literatures
Elizabeth Moles, Lecturer in Sociology, April 30, 1992
School of Social Work
Nathalie A Drews, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, May 31, 1992
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Thomas L Coffey, professor of sociology/anthropology/social work at the
University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on December 31,
1992, after a most productive career as a teacher, advisor, and department leader.
Professor Coffey received his B.S. degree from Central Michigan University
in 1956 and his M.S.W. degree from the University of Michigan School of Social
Work in 1961. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint in 1973
as an associate professor without tenure; he received tenure in 1974, and was
promoted to full professor in 1977.
Having taught social work at UM-Flint for nearly 20 years, Professor Coffey
was responsible for the development of its highly successful B.A program in social work and the program minor in criminal justice. His most noted research endeavor was an extensive investigation of issues related to the death penalty in
Michigan, culminating in a first-rate video entitled "Trial and Error." Professor
Coffey provided additional service as chair of the Department of Sociology/Anthropology from 1985-87 and again from 1990-91.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Thomas L. Coffey Professor Emeritus of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work.


211




January Meeting, 1993


Nathalie A. Drews, associate professor of social work, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 1992, after 28 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Professor Drews received her AB. degree from the University of Michigan
in 1948, and her M.S.W. degree from the University of Michigan in 1951. She
served as an assistant field director with the American National Red Cross from
1952-56 and a medical social worker at the University of Michigan Hospitals
from 1956-64. Professor Drews joined the faculty of the School of Social Work in
1964 as an assistant professor, she was promoted to associate professor in 1970
and attained tenure in 1973.
As one of the school's leading instructors in the area of interpersonal practice, Professor Drews was an authority on the family life cycle, particularly in the
areas of death and dying and working with families who are coping with loss and
grief. Her expertise was also shared for a time with the Institute of Gerontology
where she served as an associate research scientist (1983) and then as a faculty
associate (1984-87). Professor Drews was a member of the Turner Geriatric Services Advisory Committee, and served as consultant to many public and voluntary social service organizations. Her leadership contributions to the School of
Social Work include serving a year as acting director of student services in 1986
and as assistant dean of student services from 1987-91. Her retirement marks
the departure of one of the most dedicated members of the faculty of the School
of Social Work
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Nathalie A Drews
Associate Professor Emeritus of Social Work
Thomas J. Garbaty, professor of English language and literature, retired
from active faculty status on December 31, 1992.
Professor Garbaty emigrated to the United States with his family from Berlin in 1939. After graduating Phi Beta Kappa from Haverford College in 1951, he
received his M.A degree in 1954 and his PhD. degree in 1957 from the University of Pennsylvania. He came to the University of Michigan in 1960 as an instructor in the English department and as an assistant editor of the Middle English
Dictionary. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1962, associate professor
in 1966, and professor in 1970.
For over 30 years, Professor Garbaty has been one of the most valued and
popular members of the department. He is one of the few professors to be named
invariably to the honors list of the students' course evaluation booklet Advice,
and received the Amoco Award for Distinguished Undergraduate Teaching in
1968, the first State of Michigan Teaching Excellence Award in 1990, and the
first biennial award from the Learning Disabilities Society in 1991.
Professor Garbaty's earliest publications involve the late Victorian period,
but he found his true calling in the age of Chaucer. He is the editor of Medieval
English Literature, the standard anthology for the period, and is currently working on an edition of "Sir Thopas" for the Chaucer Variorum. He has served many
terms on the English department's executive committee, and outside the University has served as visiting professor at the University of Bern, Switzerland; chair
of the Chaucer Division of the Modern Language Association; reader for PMLA,
the Chaucer Review, and Studies in the Age of Chaucer; and member of the


212




January Meeting, 1993


editorial boards of three journals. Colleagues and former graduate students in
the English department will remember especially the stimulating colloquia he organized (and his droll introductions) during his seven years as chair of the Committee on Scholarly and Creative Activities.
The same talents that stamped Professor Garbaty's teaching made him a
leader among his professional peers. He repeatedly moved beyond the classroom
to the public stage as well, in response to requests from local high schools and organizations and from other colleges and universities. Professor Garbaty taped a
ten-program television series, "Chaucer's Canterbury Tales," which was adopted
by Educational Television of Ontario, by WNET in New York City, and by the
Central Television Network
The Regents now salute this esteemed teacher, scholar, and public servant
by naming Thomas J. Garbaty Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature.
Beverly C. Payne, M.D., research scientist in the Institute for Social Research and clinical professor of postgraduate medicine and health professions
education in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on June 30,
1992.
Dr. Payne received his B.A. and his M.D. degrees from the University of
Texas in 1939 and 1942, respectively, then completed his internship and residency in internal medicine at the University of Michigan Hospitals in 1945.
Throughout most of his career, he combined the active clinical practice of internal medicine with research and teaching at the University of Michigan. He was a
clinical instructor in internal medicine from 1953-63, clinical assistant professor
from 1963-76, and assistant dean in the Medical School from 1966-76. From
1976-79, Dr. Payne served as director of the Health Services Research Center and
associate professor in the Departments of Postgraduate Medicine and Health
Professions Education and Internal Medicine. He was appointed clinical associate professor in 1979 and clinical professor in 1992 in the Department of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education. He received his
appointment as research scientist in the Institute for Social Research in 1984.
Nationally recognized for his research in the evaluation and improvement of
physicians' performance in providing health care, Dr. Payne was among the first
to develop quantitative methods for measuring physicians' performance. During
his career, he pursued an expansion of the use of these methods to improve care
in hospitals and in ambulatory and specialized care settings. Dr. Payne has
served on the editorial board of the Annals on Internal Medicine, and has been
an advisor or consultant to numerous federal, state, and local organizations. For
his achievements in health services research, he received the American College of
Physicians Rosenthal Award; he has also been honored as a master of the American College of Physicians.
Dr. Payne's scholarly work has been complemented by his communitybased practice as a general internist. Highly regarded by his peers, he has held
elective positions in the Michigan State Medical Society and the American College of Physicians. His unique career has combined insight into practical issues
in medical care with scientific inquiry and development of methods to improve
care.


213




January Meeting, 1993


The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Beverly C. Payne
Research Scientist Emeritus.
Glenn E. "Bo" Schembechler, assistant professor of sports management and communication in the Division of Kinesiology and former head football
coach and director of athletics, retired from active faculty status on August 31,
1992, after an extraordinarily productive career.
A 1951 graduate of Miami University of Ohio, Professor Schembechler
earned his M.A degree in 1952 from The Ohio State University, where he also
served as graduate assistant coach. After serving in the U.S. Army, he coached at
Presbyterian College and at Bowling Green State, Northwestern, and Ohio State
Universities before being named head football coach at Miami University of Ohio
in 1963. In 1969, he commenced his record-setting career as head football coach
at the University of Michigan, a position he held until 1990.
Professor Schembechler never had a losing season in 27 years (including Miami University) as a head coach. His won-lost record of 234-64-8 ranks first
among all active coaches. Seventeen of his 21 UM teams ranked in the top 10 in
the wire service polls and went on to bowl games. Thirty-nine of his players
earned first-team All American honors, and nearly 100 earned first-team All Big
Ten honors. From 1988-1990, he also served as the University's director of athletics, overseeing 21 varsity sports and a budget in excess of $20 million.
With a reputation as one of the best academic advisors in the Division of Kinesiology, Professor Schembechler knew each of his players, their abilities, and
their career plans. He strongly emphasized academic achievement, always keeping the best long-term interests of his players foremost in his mind. He is a past
president of the American Football Coaches Association, and for many years,
conducted a highly-regarded annual coaching clinic for high school coaches. He
has also been a featured television sports commentator during the football season.
The Regents now salute this distinguished coach, teacher, and administrator by naming Glenn E. Schembechler Assistant Professor Emeritus of Sports
Management and Communication.
Memorials
The Regents were notified of the death of a faculty member, Frank M.
Andrews.
Anita Miller. In addition, Regent Power noted the death on January 18,
1993, of Anita Miller, who had a close association with the Regents in her position as director of university events. He observed that Ms. Miller had joined the
University staff in 1965 in the School of Public Health, and then after an absence
of several years had rejoined the University in the Office of Development. She
had held several leadership positions in the Campaign for Michigan, the $160
million fundraising effort, including director of campaign operations and assistant to the director of development for major gifts. She was appointed director of
university events in 1989.


214




January Meeting, 1993


Regent Power commented, "All of us who served with her were enormously
impressed by her capacity for detail, her imagination, her sense of excellence in
all things, her good will, and her loyalty to the University. I know that many
around this table join me in expressing our sorrow at her death, and wish to express our condolences to Roy Muir, her husband"
President Duderstadt observed that Anita was a warm, energetic, and courageous individual who had served the University very, very well. Besides having
had close relations with members of the Board and the administration, she had
frequently served as the face of the University in interacting with people from
the outside. He noted that she would be missed very much.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
voted ulnnimously to adopt the following memorial statement:
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the death on December 23, 1992, of Frank M. Andrews, professor of
psychology, professor of population planning and international health, and distinguished research scientist in the Institute for Social Research.
Born in Tenafly, New Jersey, on April 2, 1935, Professor Andrews received
his B.A degree from Dartmouth College in 1957. Following studies at the University of Sydney, Australia, and the New School for Social Research, he received
his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1962. In 1959, he joined the
Survey Research Center at the Institute for Social Research; he was appointed to
the faculties of the Department of Psychology in 1963 and the Department of
Population Planning and International Health in 1979.
Professor Andrews conducted numerous studies on social indicators of wellbeing, scientific creativity, social science research methods, and other subjects.
He was the author or editor of more than a dozen books and monographs and of
many scientific articles and chapters. In the late 1960s, he participated in and later directed an eight-year project to assist the government of Peru in establishing
a survey research center to gather information about that country's labor force
and other social indicators.
Professor Andrews made extensive contributions to survey research methods and analysis techniques and is credited with the invention of a number of
measures, indicators, and statistical innovations. His work is widely used and
cited by many scholars. In addition to being a distinguished researcher, Professor
Andrews was a superb teacher. He established and taught several highly popular
courses in survey analysis techniques; served on numerous doctoral committees
and for many years directed the doctoral programs in population planning and
international health; and contributed to international research as both a teacher
and consultant.
In 1990, Professor Andrews received the University's Distinguished Research Scientist Award. His achievements also were recognized in 1992 by the establishment of the Frank M. Andrews Survey Research Center Summer Institute
Fellowship.
Professor Andrews will always be remembered by his students and colleagues with affection and universal respect for his breadth of expertise in the
areas of analysis of survey data and the study of the quality of life in


215




January Meeting, 1993


cross-cultural settings. As we mourn his death, our condolences go to his wife
Ann and his sons Kenneth and Steven.
Regent McFee arived at the meeting at this point, at 1:30 PJM.
Degrees
There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Investment Report
Vice President Womack reviewed a new report format that is proposed to be
used as the Investment Report in the future. If Regents' comments are favorable,
this report will replace the former report.
Olympia & York Investment. Vice President Womack responded to questions from the Regents about the current status of the University's investment in
Olympia & York, noting that it continues to make timely payments on both principal and interest on the notes held by the University. He also reported that University representatives are participating actively in the noteholder's committee.
Following further discussion about Olympia & York, the Regents turned to
the next item on the agenda.
Sale of $102,230,000 Hospital Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1993A
Vice President Womack reported on the sale of Series 1986A and Series
1990 Hospital Revenue Bonds to Morgan Stanley & Co., as described in the Regents Communication. He noted that savings of approximately $4.8 million were
achieved by refinancing.
Venture Capital Investment
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the commitment of $5.0 million of the University Endowment Fund to Frontenac VI, L.P.
Stadium Boulevard Easement
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the University's granting to G.T. Products an easement
for ingress and egress from the public roadway connecting Boulevard Drive and
Stadium Boulevard to the southwest comer of the property at 401 E. Stadium.
Revision of Regents' Bylaws Sections 5.02, 6.02, 6.05, and 11.034
In accordance with approval in October 1991 of the closure of the Division
of Interdisciplinary Studies at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Regent
Brown moved, Regent Waters seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved
revisions of Regents' Bylaws Sections 5.02, 6.02, 6.05, and 11.034. The revised
text of these bylaws is as follows:


216




January Meeting, 1993


Sec. 5.02. Goening Bodies in Schools and Collees
In each school, college, or degree granting division of the University, including
those at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and at the University of Michigan-Flint,
the governing faculty shall be in charge of the affairs of the schol, college, or division,
except as delegated to the eecutive committee, if any, and except that in the Graduate
School the governing body shall be the executive board, and in the Medical School shall
be the excutive faculty.
Sec. 6.02. Deree Program Definitions
Undergraduate degree programs are offered by:
The University of Michigan (Ann Arbor Campus)
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
School of Art
School of Business Administration
School ofDentistry
School of Education
College of Engineering
Division of Kinesiology
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
School ofMusic
School of Natural Resources and Environment
School of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
School of Education
Schoolof Engineering
School of Management
The University of Michigan-Flint
Colege ofArts and Sciences
School of Health Professions and Studies
School of Management
Graduate degree programs are offered by the schools and colleges on all three
campuses through the agency of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
leading to the master's, doctoral, and related degrees. In addition, the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, the School of Business Administration, the School of
Health Professions and Studies, the School of Natural Resources and Environment,
and the Schools of Management at The University of Michigan-Dearborn and at The
University of Michigan-Flint are authorized to offer the master's degree in appropriate
professional fields and the School of Music, the master's degree in applied music.
Graduate professional degree programs are offered by the:
School of Denistry
Lw School
Medical School
College of Pharmacy
School of Public Health
School of Social Work


217




January Meeting, 1993


Se  6.05.  Divisions of the Universit
A division of the University may be established by the president and the Board on
request from faculty members interested in a common substantive field which cuts
across administrative lines, for the purpose of coordinating allied interests and activities. In the exercis of its functions, a division shall concern itself with the interrelations
ofprograms of instruction, the encouragement of individual research, the promotion of
cooperative investigations, and the perforance of extramural services. The functioning agency of a division shall be a general committee representative of the constituent
departments and constituted in such a manner as may be deemed appropriate in each
Division. The individuals constituting the general committee shall be nominated by appropriate agencies of the schools, colleges, and departments.
A division is not an administrative unit. It shall cease to exist when the constituent members do not request appointment of members and officers for the ensuing year.
It may be reactivated by a request to the president from former constituent members.
The chair of each division shall be appointed by the president on recommendation of the division members.
This section shall not apply to the Division of Kinesiology, which is an operative
administrative and academic unit.
Sec. 11.034. The University of Michigan-Dearborn Division of Interdisciplinarv Studies Executive Committee
By action of the Board of Regents on October 18, 1991, Bylaw 11.034 was rescinde effective January 1, 1992.
The Michigan Mandate
President Duderstadt announced that two panels would be discussing aspects of the Michigan Mandate, and introduced members of the first panel: Harold R. Johnson, dean of the School of Social Work; Lee C Bollinger, dean of the
Law School, and Frederick C. Neidhardt, the Frederick G. Novy Distinguished
University Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, associate dean for faculty
affairs in the Medical School, and chair of the Committee on a Multicultural University (COMU).
President Duderstadt reviewed the history of the Michigan Mandate, which
was instituted five years ago with the goal of building a model of a multicultural
learning community which values, respects, and draws intellectual strength from
the rich diversity of people of different races, cultures, religions, nationalities,
and beliefs, while resisting pressures of separation, fear, and bigotry. It was decided to take a strategic approach to achieving fundamental, permanent change
in the nature of the University, a process that would be organic and evolve with
experience.
The president reviewed the progress that has been made as a result of the
Michigan Mandate, noting that a record was set in Fall, 1992, with over 7,000
minority students (21.4 percent of the student body) being enrolled at the Ann
Arbor campus. African American enrollment has increased by over 50 percent, to
a level of 7.8 percent of the student body, since the institution of the Michigan


218




January Meeting, 1993


Mandate. He also cited increases in the number of minority faculty and improvements in graduation rates among minority students.
Harold Johnson. The president called on Dean Harold Johnson, who
stated his belief that multiculturalism could be the single most important issue
facing society, and noted that the University reflects the imperfections of society
at large. Dean Johnson recounted his experience as chair of the committee
charged with reviewing University programs in minority affairs and services. As
a result of this review, the committee concluded that stereotyping of minority
students is a very big problem; rather than assuming that they will need extensive supportive services, what is needed is higher expectations for minority students. They should be treated as individuals, rather than as stereotypes.
The committee recommended that the title of the vice provost for minority
affairs be changed to vice provost for academic and multicultural affairs, and that
the person in this office should work more closely with the other units on campus. The University should encourage the development of a wider array of instructional and research initiatives that would promote multiculturalism, and
should institutionalize the initiatives already in place.
In the area of student services, the committee found that a number of units
offer the same services, and it recommended simplifying this service structure.
The final recommendation was that a system be established that would reward
people who focus their scholarly activities on multiculturlism, rather than
penalize them.
Lee Bollinger. The next speaker, Dean Bollinger, described the effect of
the Michigan Mandate on the Law School He noted that when he became dean
in 1987, there was a lot of conflict in the Law School between Black, white, and
Hispanic students. These students also were critical of the Law School admissions process, educational program, classroom dynamics, social interactions, the
placement process, and lack of diversity within the faculty.
To address these problems, a minority Law School graduate conducted confidential interviews with minority students and alumni, and minority students
also came to meetings of faculty and others to air their concerns. These interactions verified the uncongenial atmosphere that existed for minority students.
As a result of these findings, the Law School has revised the admissions process, hired a Black dean of admissions, revised its brochure, and generally made
the process more inviting. Minority enrollment has increased by 10 percent from
the level of six years ago, to a current total of about 22 percent (17 percent
Black). Minority students' performance has improved, there are more courses
that deal with race and gender issues, and classroom dynamics appear to have
improved. The Minority Affairs Program has improved, and an extremely successful one-week program for entering minority students, held prior to the first
week of school, has been developed. The Law School has also hired Mrs. Doris
McCree to provide counseling, advice, guidance, and job placement assistance for
minority students.


219




January Meeting, 1993


In the area of faculty recruitment, 20 percent of the offers made have been
to minorities, although the Law School has had difficulty retaining its minority
faculty. He also pointed out that Supreme Court decisions in the area of affirmative action have caused the Law School to change some of its admissions procedures.
Dean Bollinger concluded by praising the president for his leadership in
pursuing the Michigan Mandate.
Frederick Neidhardt. The president then called on Professor Neidhardt
to report on the Council on a Multicultural University (COMU), a group of 40 administrators formed three years ago, charged with helping to implement the
Michigan Mandate. Professor Neidhardt described the achievements of COMU,
and said that its current focus is based on the premise that
"progress in achieving a multicultural academic community at the
University of Michigan depends now on our success in complementing
the recruitment efforts that are designed to bring a greater diversity of
students, faculty and staff to the University. New efforts must address
the features of our environment that contribute to, as well as those that
impede, the creation of a sense of community in the University-a community based not on homogeneity of background and heritage, but on
shared values, personal aspirations, and goals for the American and the
global society. "
The Council decided to focus on the environment and how people are
treated when they come to the University of Michigan. The three projects it is
undertaking in 1992-93 are 1) Learning about progress in achieving a multicultural community at other institutions as well as within the University of Michigan; 2) Describing the nature of the community that we would like to achieve,
which involves identifying markers by which progress toward achieving multiculturlism can be measured; and 3) Assessing the current climate at the University, through conducting cultural audits.
Discussion. The panelists then responded to questions from the Regents.
Dean Bollinger described the impact that court cases have had on affirmative action programs in recent years. In response to a question from Regent Baker, Provost Whitaker described the way in which funds are made available for hiring
qualified minority faculty members who are identified in the course of the normal recruitment process. Dean Bollinger reported that it is very important to the
faculty to have diversity among its ranks, and described the positive impact that
the background and experiences of Black faculty have had on the Law School He
and President Duderstadt also noted that the Michigan Mandate and the methods used for recruiting minority faculty are within the guidelines set by the Supreme Court.
Regarding the current climate at the University, the panelists reported that
the climate for minorities varies from unit to unit, but in general, it appears that
most of the micro-environments are not as nourishing for people of color as they
should be. Discussion followed about the reasons for this and how the climate


220




January Meeting, 1993


can be improved. Dean Johnson observed that a multicultural perspective at the
institution will bring it closer to the truth. He believes that if the fundamental focus remains that of developing a more multiculturl community, this will guarantee a multicultural perspective on all issues, and the climate will automatically
improve.
Regent Baker reported that he had been contacted by two students within
the last three years who had wanted to write papers against affirmative action
and who had been told that they would fail the course if they did that. He observed that there is a lot of hostility within the University community toward the
idea of "changing behavior", of people being forced into a mold that they don't
agree with. He also cautioned that care must be taken to avoid any restrictions
on freedom of speech and thought at the University.
In response to a question from President Duderstadt, Professor Ejner Jensen, chair of SACUA, noted that he and others on the English Department faculty were at first very resistant to the idea of a having course on racism, but that
their opinions have since changed. He now agrees that the more students there
are who represent diverse elements of society, the more people will recognize that
common stereotypes are inaccurate.
In response to Regent Baker's comments, Dean Bollinger stated that any
faculty member who penalizes a student for writing against affirmative action
has violated as deep a principle of the University as anyone who behaves in a racist manner. He also pointed out that intellectual openness is as important as the
other issues, and that faculty members must be courageous in raising issues of
race in and out of the classroom.
President Duderstadt then introduced the second panel: Royster Harper,
associate vice president for student affairs and dean of students; Warren Whatley, professor of economics and associate dean for graduate recruitment and support; and David Schoem, lecturer in sociology and assistant dean for
undergraduate education.
Warren Whatley. Dean Whatley described the programs administered by
his office that are used in recruiting and supporting graduate students. He
pointed out that recruitment is important because there are many capable students who have never considered the option of attending graduate school and
who need to be encouraged to do so. The Summer Research Opportunity Program has been effective in building a pool of undergraduate students of color who
go on to graduate school. Summer research institutes, various forums and workshops, and mentoring are used to support students once they are in graduate
school
Dean Whatley's office also administers a very large fellowship program,
which provides extensive financial support to graduate students of color. He described improvements that have been made in the fellowship program, which
give incentives to the departments to provide teaching and research opportunities for students. This helps to make fellowship students more a part of the


221




January Meeting, 1993


ongoing activities of the department and provides a more nurturing environment
as they go through their graduate program.
Royster Harper. The president then called on Dean Harper, to speak on
the topic of the climate on campus for nonwhite and non-heterosexual members
of the University community. She pointed out that the common characteristic for
these people is that they have less power than the majority, they are not yet able
to take for granted that they are full and valued members of this community, because "they are not, and they know it." The challenge is to create a campus environment that moves from tolerating a diverse community to embracing it.
Dean Harper observed that the experience of being a nonwhite member of
the community is one of being tolerated; they are being "permitted" to be members of the community, rather than valued, accepted, and embraced. The reason
for this is that most people come from communities where people are just like
them, and have had little association with people outside of their own experience.
She noted that white men in particular have a difficult time understanding institutional and cultural forms of discrimination and in accepting the fact that
they are still privileged in society and therefore should take responsibility for
change that is inherent with this privilege.
Dean Harper observed that future survival will depend on an awareness of
and respect for other races and other cultures. She believes that many more opportunities for interaction among these diverse communities need to be created
at the University. Increased numbers of students of color have helped them feel
much more comfortable, has boosted their confidence, and has provided more social opportunities. On the other hand, white students who have looked forward
to the diversity of the campus bemoan the fact that students from different racial
groups seldom mingle. She pointed out that most adults also spend their spare
time with people just like them, so it is unrealistic to expect more of vulnerable
young people.
Self-imposed segregation creates a lot of tension, and the assumption among
the "privileged" is that the impetus for integrating the groups should come from
the students of color. In other words, according to Dean Harper, this means that
"one must bear both the brunt of being tolerated and the responsibility for being
accepted, included, and embraced" To allay this presumption, Dean Harper
urged that the University encourage self affirmation and group affirmation by
creating more opportunities for self-segregation where minority group members
can seek refuge.
Another challenge Dean Harper posed is to teach whites the responsibility
that comes with unearned privilege. This can be taught by example, through institutional policies and through personal behavior.
Dean Harper also addressed the climate as it relates to gay, lesbian, and bisexual students. She noted that these students have high expectations for college
life after leading tortured lives in high school, only to be disillusioned when they
encounter almost as much homophobia and stereotyping behavior at the
University as they did at home. These students also have to confront even more


222




January Meeting, 1993


complex developmental and identity issues around sexuality than straight people
do.
Dean Harper described the notion of political correctness as a "confusion
factor," designed to confuse legality with morality. Even though most of the University's hiring, promotion, and living practices are legal, students, staff, and faculty, often ask, "but are they just and are they fair?" Students, staff, and faculty
see, understand, and feel by example that diversity and respect for people expressed in words is not often reflected in behavior. In a university setting, they
will struggle to have integrity and courage not because it is politically correct, but
because it is fair and just. This is the standard by which leadership will be evaluated.
David Schoem. Dean Schoem then took the floor to describe the Program
on Intergroup Relations and Conflict, which was developed to educate students
about intergroup relations and conflict and to base this education in the curriculum. Students would become more aware, better informed, more knowledgeable,
and better able to understand and apply analytical tools to enable them to think
about these issues more broadly. This program was conceived as a systematic, intellectual approach meant to be part of the liberal arts education of all students.
Dean Schoem described the various components of the program, noting that
it reaches 400-500 students each semester. Classes in this program provide a safe,
educational environment in which students can speak openly and honestly about
these issues and can be self-reflective about how they live with others. Students
also learn more about themselves as individuals and as members of groups,
about others and their groups, and about commonalities and differences across
groups. Through this program, the notion that people within groups are all alike
quickly disappears, and students become aware of individual difference and intragroup conflict
The result of the program will be a core of students who will contribute as
leaders in a diverse, democratic society, by having experienced interactions in
substantive ways with people from different backgrounds, and who will feel comfortable in asserting their leadership in mixed gender, racial, and ethnic groups.
Dean Schoem noted that students do feel free to speak their minds in the environments created by this program.
In the discussion that followed, the speakers responded to a question from
Regent Deitch by stating that all of the various strategies they described can be
effective in addressing the problem of climate for non-majority students.
Regent McFee urged that the Regents be kept frequently apprised of how
these issues are being addressed on campus. Regent Power observed that the
Mandate sometimes provokes hostility because it creates the perception that a
politically correct attitude is being forced upon everyone. He also noted that more
instances of discomfort are being created because we-as a society and as a university-are trying to address problems that have never before been addressed
successfully. Creating an institution that values diverse people will get closer to


223




January Meeting, 1993


truth, and by doing so we will have contributed to the evolution of a better and
truer America.
Regent Deitch commended the president on behalf of the Board for his leadership in this effort. The meeting then moved to the Michigan Union to hear
public comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, all students,
and all on the topic of the proposed closing of the Program in Population Planning and International Health in the School of Public Health: Carol Ann Miller,
Christine Kolars, Suzinne Pak, Jonathan Gorstein, and Hollie Malamud.
Following Public Comments, the Regents returned to the Regents' Room to
meet in executive session. Then, there being no further business, the meeting
was adjourned. The next meeting will be held on February 18 and 19, 1993. Regents' transportation, accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses
for the month of December 1992 totalled $230.55.
Richard L. Kennedy Secrry


224




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1993


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 18, 1993
The Regents met at 1:15 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, and Power.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors Jones and
Renick. Regent Varner arrived shortly after the start of the meeting, Vice President Cosovich was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Regent
Deitch.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Deitch made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on
February 19, 1993, in the President's Conference Room, immediately
following Public Comments, for the purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific
pending litigation.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Undergraduate Financial Aid
The meeting then recessed, during which time there was a presentation and
discussion about current issues and policies related to undergraduate student financial aid. Thomas A Butts, associate vice president for government relations,
gave the first presentation, which described recommendations of the National
Commission on Responsibilities for Financing Postsecondary Education.
Following Mr. Butts' presentation and the ensuing discussion, Mr. Harvey
Grotrian, director of the Office of Financial Aid, made a presentation describing
how undergraduate financial aid is allocated at the University of Michigan. He
then responded to questions and comments from the Regents.
Public Comments
At the conclusion of the discussions, the Regents went to the Anderson
Room of the Michigan Union at 4:00 P.M. to hear Public Comments. The Regents
heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated: Yuzuru J.
Takeshita, Gayl D. Ness, Ruth Simmons, Robin Barlow, and Jason L. Finkle, faculty members in the Department of Population Planning and International
Health in the School of Public Health, on the proposed discontinuance of the


225




February Meeting, 1993


Department of Population Planning and International Health; Hemant Nayak
and Christa Williams, students, on the North Campus incinerator, and Jonathan
Rose, alumnus, on freedom of speech issues.
Friday, February 19, 1993
The Regents met at 9:10 AM. in the Regents' Room Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, Varner, and Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and
Vice Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as
were Chancellors Jones and Renick.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and announced that he
would proceed with the regular business agenda
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of January 22, 1993.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports of Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. Vice President Kelly
submitted reports of Projects Established-Research and Other Activities and
Summaries of a Selection of Current Research.
Conflict of Interest Policy. President Duderstadt noted that the University was in the process of reviewing its conflict of interest policies and comparing
them with those of other universities, and requested Regental support to include
conflict of interest policies that apply to the Board and ex.cutive officers as well
as to faculty and staff. Recommendations would then be brought to the Regents
for consideration. Regents Deitch, McGowan, McFee, and Power expressed support of this idea, as did Regent Baker, while noting that previous Boards had
scrupulously adhered to the highest standards of conduct when conflict of interest might have been in question.
Following some discussion, Regent Waters moved, Regent McGowan seconded, and the Regents voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report on Voluntary Support for the
month of January 1993, noting that the seven-month period ending January 31,
1993, set a record in the amount of support received. On a motion by Regent
Power, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents voted unanimously to receive
the following gifts, with thanks, and in accord with their terms and conditions:
ARCO Exploration and Production Technology, Plano, Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Flow and Reaction in Porous Media, College
of Engineering........16,500


226




February Meeting, 1993


Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Illinois
for psychopharmacology research in the Medical School     2..20,000
Richard M. Adams, Mill Valley, California
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School.........-. 6,000
Keith E. Alessi, Virginia Beach, Virginia
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration    0.....6,000
Robert D. and Joan R. Allaben, Gaylord
485 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock for the Robert D. and Joan R.
Allaben Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Biological Station,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....7....20,764
American Academy of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School....      6,000
American Brain Tumor Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...6,250
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                         16............. 156,480
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School -_~..29,990
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                    -...79,000
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School __..............12,500
American Trucking Associations, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Transportation Research Institute...........10,000
Amoco Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fund in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.............................................................13,775
William J. Anderson, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering  __._.                         12,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Lynn and Ruth Townsend Professorship in the Medical School._.. 20,000
Anonymous Donor
for student fellowships in the Law School....5,000
Anonymous Donor
for unrestricted support of the Campaign for Michigan _20,000
Joseph A. Aristeo, Livonia
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering _5,000
C. Michael Armstrong, Manhattan Beach, California
for support in the College of Engineering _.. 14,167
John M. Armstrong, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  6-5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School __....... 18,250
Ashland Oil, Inc., Ashland, Kentucky
for the Don T. McKone Endowment in the School of Business Administration...... 300,000
BASF Corporation, Inmont Division, Clifton, New Jersey
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts ___25,000
Association Francois-Xavier Bagnoud, Geneva, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering __.82,209
Baker & Hostetler Founders Trust, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Baker & Hostetler Classroom Project in the Law School.__5,000
Louis G. Baldacci, Atherton, California
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _.30,000
Andrew P. Barowsky, Auburn, Maine
for endowment support in the School of Business Administration _.5,,0           00
Terry Barr Sales Agency, Inc., Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics and the Elbel Club
Marching Band Fund in the School of Music _....~.21,000
Marion Bellairs, Grand Blanc
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Flint -__ 5,000
James L. Betchek, Berrien Springs
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics      ~65,000
Brian L. Bilzin, Miami, Florida
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _65,000


227




February Meeting, 1993


Joan A Binkow, Ann Arbor
for the Humanities Challenge Grant and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......5,000
Biogen, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for immunopharmacology research in the Medical School.........................80,000
Stephen J. Bloom Charitable Trust, Clarendon Hills, Illinois
for the Stephen J. Bloom Library Acquisitions Fund in the School of Business
Administration _........6,000
Richard L. Boger, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _...... 6,000
Robert Bonczyk, Northville
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Annual Fund..........._,000
John D. Boyles, Grand Rapids
1,000 shares of CFSB Bancorp common stock for the John Duvall Boyles Endowment
in the Law School._..18,260
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration  _...............,000
Robert S. Bradley, Ann Arbor
for the School of Business Administration, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Department of Athletics _..............,860
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society..........................,000
Paul S. Brentlinger, Cleveland, Ohio
1,000 shares of Verifone, Inc. common stock for the School of Business Administration
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts         -....__...20,600
Robert W. Browne, Ada
2,500 shares of X-RITE, Inc., common stock for golf course restoration in the
Department of Athletics ___......................................6................66,938
Floydene B. Brownlee, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..10,000
Butler & Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Marching Band Uniform Fund in the School of Music...........6,000
Dorwin and Barbara Cartwright Trust, Santa Barbara, California
for the Center for the Education of Women _...20,000
AVI CHAI, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work._...12,000
John Carver, Brighton
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund in the School of Music __,6,000
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.....,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
4,100 shares of Ethyl Corporation common stock for the Pauline M. Conger
Scholarship in the Alumni Association and for the Ralph G. Conger Charitable
Remainder Unitrust -.....120,960
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for unrestricted capital support of the School of Business Administration.10,000
William L. Cooke Trust, Monroe
for support in the College of Engineering..49,069
Cooper Industries Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Solar Car Project Fund in the College of Engineering             -.65,000
Charles P. Cousland, Brookfield, Wisconsin
for the College of Engineering....6,000
Katherine Q. Cox, Flint
1,898 shares of Kmart Corporation common stock for support of the School of Music _..44,129
Dewey B. Crawford, Chicago, Illinois
for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law School 5_.6,000
Mary A. and R. Malcolm Cumming Trust, Grand Rapids
for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in the Law School -.. _6,000
Franklin M. Cunard, Clinton Township
200 shares of Chase Manhattan Corporation and 300 shares of Southern Company
common stocks for the Franklin M. Cunard, Jr., Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering.17,163
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School._.                         200,000


228




February Meeting, 1993


James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
900 shares of Somatogen, Inc., common stock for the School of Business
Administration and for the President's Fund......~17,213
Helen Curtis Davis, Kane, Pennsylvania
for the Helen Curtis Davis Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education _...65,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School              _......~.29,980
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for research and other support in the School of Dentistry....15,000
John L. Denniston, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _....6,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................ 10,000
Mrs. Yaffa R. Dermer, Miami Beach, Florida
for the Amnon Rosenthal Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School....................... 10,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society _-.............................15,000
Peter F. deVaux, Verona, Virginia
300 shares of Novell Corporation common stock for the School of Business
Administration..................7,913
Dickinson, Wright, Moon, VanDusen & Freeman, Detroit
for the Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize in the Law School.... 10,000
Thomas A. Dieterich, Tenafly, New Jersey
for unrestricted support of the Law School...........,000
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
for the Schools of Business Administration, Medicine, and Music, the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Center for the Education of Women, the
Department of Athletics, and the University Musical Society.......26,360
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for research in the College of Engineering...................27,000
Dow Chemical USA, Midland Division, Midland
for polymer research in the College of Engineering                             15........16,0 00
Peter Dow, Grosse Pointe Farms
216 shares of Interpublic Group of Companies common stock and cash gift of $1,000
for program support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..8,229
Jeffrey Drobek Estate
for student aid in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts __41,474
Bruce N. Duff, Manchester, Vermont
100 shares of Banc One Corporation common stock for the Roy F. and Jean H. Proffitt
Research Professorship in the Law School _..194
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Center for the Education of Women 0....10,000
William G. Earle, Miami, Florida
for the Ruth and George Earle Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts _....10,000
John H. Edlund, Grand Rapids
for the Isadore Lampe Chair and other support in the Medical School _ ..........6,000
John N. and Elizabeth Ehlers, Saint Louis, Missouri
908 shares of Monsanto Company common stock for the John N. and Elizabeth
Ehlers Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Law School and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts __.51,189
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for Student Financial Aid in the School of Business Administration._..5,000
Tyrone C. Fahner, Evanston, Illinois
for the Humanities Challenge Grant in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _. 10,000
Murray J. Feiwell, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the Law School, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the
Department of Athletics _~6,000
Russell H. Fifield, Ann Arbor
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School _.6,000
E. Ann Finlayson, New York, New York
for the Louise and Robert Finlayson Family Scholarship in the School of Business
Administ ration -_~.65,000


229




February Meeting, 1993


Robert M. Finlayson, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for the Louise and Robert Finlayson Family Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               10,000
Fischer Scientific International, Inc., Hampton, New Hampshire
for the School of Nursing _,...-16,000
Stephen L. Fisher, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _........,000
Esther M. Floyd, Ann Arbor
for support of the Medical School, the University Musical Society, the Campaign for
Michigan, and WUOM/WVGR....._........  6,000
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..-.. 20,000
Clinton B. Ford Estate
for the Dean B. McLaughlin Fund in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts _-....-7650,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Automobile as Art Exhibition Fund in the Museum of Art, and for research
in the College of Engineering _ _..............66                            55,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for capital support in the School of Business Administration __..    100,000
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for cancer research in the Medical School..................                  1,246
Hattie W. Friend Estate
for the Walter Frederic Friend Fund in the College of Engineering.................. 2,000
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe
320 shares of Rockwell International common stock for the Larry Teal Scholarship
and other support in the School of Music, and for the Law School, and the University
Musical Society..........................................................9,820
Robert A. Fuhrman Trust, Pebble Beach, California
for the Aerospace Building in the College of Engineering.... ----           10,000
Henry E. Fuldner, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
85 shares of Texaco, Inc. common stock for unrestricted support of the Law School.. 5,058
Charlotte Peck Gault, Columbus, Ohio
2,038.43 shares of Selected American Shares Fund for the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts _...35,000
Leland Gayheart Fund, Pontiac
for Fire Safety and Awareness Programs and Burn Prevention in the Medical School... 10,000
Wood M. Geist Trust, Washington
for the Schools of Art and Education, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
the University Musical Society, and WFUM-TV _......7..7,400
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for the College of Engineering __100,000
Roland T. Gerhart, Milford
for Industrial Development Division Support _.25,000
Geoffrey L. Gifford, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School._.6,667
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Ginn, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering and the President's Fund _5,000
Alvin Glick, Jackson
400 shares of Southwest Gas Company common stock for golf course restoration in
the Department of Athletics.5...6,600
Paul G. Goebel, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration and
the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics....     7,000
James F. Goodrich, Cumberland Foreside, Maine
238 shares of Pepisco, Inc., common stock for the James F. Goodrich Donor Pooled
Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering       ---- 10,086
Eugene M. Grant & Company Real Estate Management, New York, New York
for the Kelsey Museum  -.560,000
Great Lakes Hydraulics, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Department of Athletics, in memory of Mary Apkarran......10,000
John C. Griffin Estate
for unrestricted support of the Law School _.......8,300
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
for the James E. Harris Scholar in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts..~ 0   0.6,000


230




February Meeting, 1993


Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
12.63 shares of Harris Family Investments and cash gift of $2,000 for support of the
Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....10,000
Hatch Stamping Company, Chelsea
for support in the College of Engineering                           -....     12,600
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School....,000
General James K. Herbert Foundation, Fresno, California
for the Kelsey Museum                         -- 8,334
Carl J. Herzog Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for dermatology support in the Medical School.-6,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for environmental studies in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and
international activities support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies -50,000
Douglas N. Higgins, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics     -..    5,000
Cecile P. Hitchcock Trust, Kalamazoo
for the Margaret Ayers Host Fellowship for Graduate Women in the Alumni Association.6,750
Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                     -.10,000
Frederick and May Whyte Huber, Sun City, Arizona
for the Frederick A. and May Whyte Huber Donor Pooled Income Fund for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.2........2 5,000
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowships in the Medical School _........ 10,000
IBM Canada, Ltd., Markham, Ontario
for fellowships in the College of Engineering..        -- 25,000
Marguerite Iskenderian, Brooklyn, New York
for the Haig P. Iskenderian Scholarship in the College of Engineering......... .100,000
Fred E. Ittner, Moraga, California
for the Edward Austin Jones Memorial Fund in the School of Business Administration..5,000
William G. Jackson, Cortez, Florida
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts -...-.... 5,000
Janssen Pharmaceutical Research Foundation, Titusville, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School  _.      1      4,.    7      0       8.-.14,708
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund,New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Pharmacology Centennial Fund in the Medical School  _6                 5,,0 00
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School _..__.80,125
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School _~...8,000
KL Spring and Stamping Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..5,000
Barbara Brattin Kacir, Cleveland, Ohio
for the William J. Brattin Scholarship and other support in the Law School.-.6,000
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....5,000
Harvey E. Kapnick, Jr., Washington, D.C.
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration...15,000
Richard Katcher, Cleveland Ohio
600 shares of Merck & Company common stock and cash gift of $15,350 for the
Richard and Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship, the Benjamin D. and Ann Jaffe
Memorial Scholarship and other support in the Law School, and for the Tom Harmon
and other scholarships in the Department of Athletics......~.....42,613
James C. Keen, Dexter
for construction support in the Department of Athletics......20,000
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for the Peace Corps Program in the School of Education......~160,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research and other support in the Schools of Nursing and Public Health and in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies......~.177,835
C. Robert Kidder, Ridgefield, Connecticut
500 shares of Duracell International common stock for support in the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.A-16,844
Kidney Foundation of Canada, Montreal, Quebec
for research in the Medical School -..........8,337


231




February Meeting, 1993


Noboru Kikuchi, Ann Arbor
for naval architecture and marine engineering development in the College of
Engineering....10,000
Robert P. Kirby, Augusta, Georgia
for the School of Natural Resources and Environment __..5...  _.....,0 00
Max S. Klein, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Thomas H. Simpson Memorial Institute Fund in the Medical School......_ 6,000
C. Douglas Kranwinkle, Los Angeles, California
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School _...5,000
Richard M. Kremer, Akron, Ohio
for the Fisher Stadium Fund, Department of Athletics _....15,000
James M. Lawler Estate
for the Abigail Marie Shaw Lawler Student Aid Fund in the Alumni Association......... 194,221
John W. Lawrence, Richland
for the Teaching Excellence Fund in the School of Business Administration..............,000
Phila A. Lawton Estate
for the Research and Research Equipment Fund  _....................20,000
Lazard Freres & Company, New York, New York
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law School _.                  ....22,000
Lynn A. Leedy, New Canaan, Connecticut
for the R. Timothy Leedy Scholarship in the School of Business Administration _-..-10,000
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
for research in the Medical School............................................5,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School __._..............18,630
Life & Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School..................12,500
Lilly Endowment, Ind   polis, Indiana
for research in the Bentley Historical Library _-._10,000
Warren C. Lindeman, Coldwater
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics._11,20             0
Nancy Newton Loeb Trust
for the Nancy Newton Loeb Funds in the Medical School ~_.29,421
Loews Foundation, New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Hospitals....12,500
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _.            60,000
Oscar A. Lundin, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School __._5,000
Bernard L. Madoff, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration..5,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Birmingham
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..20,000
James E. Mandler, Deerfield, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _._5,0 00
Brian C. Manoogian, Bloomfield Hills
400 shares of Masco Corporation common stock for scholarships and golf course
restoration in the Department of Athletics.....11,650
Edward S. Mardigian, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
for the Armenian Studies Program, University of Michigan-Dearborn._..,0   00
Rogers I. Marquis Trust
for general endowment in the Law School _010,000
Daniel P. McCaigue, Ocean City, Maryland
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration _..5,0       00
James A. McDivitt, Potomac, Maryland
for aerospace gifts in the College of Engineering _10,000
F. James McDonald, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics _.......5,000
John A. McDonald, Bradenton, Florida
for unrestricted support of the Law School ~_.5,000
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Voice Scholarship in the School of Music _.10,000
Keith S. McKenzie, Santa Cruz, California
for the Ophthalmology Alumni Fund in the Medical School        ~5,000
George Meader, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the Law School and the Bentley Historical Library __ 15,000


232




February Meeting, 1993


Theodore R. Meadows, Ann Arbor
for the A. James French Lectureship in the Medical School..5,000
Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for research in the Colleges of Pharmacy and Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 20,000
Mellen Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School _5,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for the Reproductive Sciences Program Fund _..110,000
Michigan Trenching Service, Inc., Ypsilanti
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.........10,000
Arthur A. Miller, Roxbury, Connecticut
for the Arthur Miller Student Aid Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts _                                                                   25...................2,000
Marsha and Jeffrey H. Miro Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jeffrey and Marsha Miro Endowed Scholarship in the Law School..................... 60,000
Mary Lee Moon Trust, Harbor Springs
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.................... 10,000
John C. Morley, Cleveland, Ohio
83 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock for unrestricted support of the School
of Business Administration _.....      .5,177
Minnie L. Morrison Estate
for the Charles and Minnie Morrison Scholarship _.........................................,754
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute....................195,125
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering __...............25,000
John S. Munn, South Bend, Indiana
for the John S. and Suzanne C. Munn Fund in the Medical School...............450,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School _  _......................6,250
Robert H. Nathan, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Jo Ann and Stuart C. Nathan Funds in the Schools of Business Administration
and Natural Resources and Environment.....25,000
Scott A. Nathan, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Jo Ann and Stuart C. Nathan Funds in the Schools of Business Administration
and Natural Resources and Environment....__.....25,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School _.                                         9,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School..........7,500
Henry H. Newlin, Tecumseh
for the Henry and Nancy Newlin Women's Basketball Scholarship in the Department
of Athletics.-__10,000
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Foundation Scholarship in Physical Medicine and the
Isadore Lampe Chair in Radiation Oncology in the Medical School..   26025,00
New York Football Giants, Inc., East Rutherford, New Jersey
for the Preston R. Tisch Professorship in Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts             ~.....50,000
Nokomis Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Center for the Education of Women _....45,000
Ronald P. Nordgren, Houston, Texas
400 shares of Sears, Roebuck & Company common stock for support in the School
of Nursing and the College of Engineering _~..17,775
Oral-B Laboratories, Redwood City, California
for research in the School of Dentistry _.21,250
Mrs. Willard A. Oberdick, Ann Arbor
for the Willard A. Oberdick Scholarship, College of Architecture and Urban Planning __.5,000
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
955 shares of Pepsico, Inc., common stock for the Class of 1966 Reunion Fund in
the Law School                              ~__40,707
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                  ~._......15,243
Evan G. Pattishall, Jr., Lebanon, Pennsylvania
for support of the School of Education _.12,500


233




February Meeting, 1993


Marlin H. Pemberton, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics..       10,000
Philips Display Components Company, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society...,000
Ronald L. Piasecki, Spring Lake
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics....     14,000
Michael and Eleanor Pinkert Foundation, McLean, Virginia
for the Campaign for Michigan                                              1... 10,000
M. Harry Piper, Flint
1,000 shares of NBD Bancorp common stock for the Wanda L. and M. Harry Piper
Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Flint _.........30,938
Donald W. Porter, Valley Cottage, New York
600 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock for the Donald W. Porter
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Regents' Alumni
Scholarship.....32,513
John C. and Thelma B. Post Trust
for the John C. and Thelma B. Post Fund  _._........................................ 15,000
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics............... 10,000
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School................................,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
for the John A. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
College of Engineering......_....................10,000
Edward S. Reid III, Tokyo, Japan
for the Jasper Braley Reid Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts._ 10,000
Melvin J. Reinhart, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School..................7,500
Ralph E. Reins, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering..7,500
Republic National Bank, New York, New York
for the Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Professorship in the Law School..    150,000
John Rich, Los Angeles, California
for the John Rich Humanities Institute Fund, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts -                                ~_...25,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Fund
for the Frank E. Robbins Integrated Pre-Medical Program Fund in the Medical School. 10,856
Eugene and C. Ruth Roberts Trust, Monrovia, California
for the Eugene and Ruth Roberts Scholarship in Creativity, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts......5,000
Rockwell International Corporation, Arlington, Virginia
for the Aerospace Building and the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College
of Engineering _-~100,000
Peter J. Rosewig, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration and the Sports Service Building, Department of Athletics _.  10,000
Lois R. Ross Trust, Naples, Florida
for the Coleman J. and Lois R. Ross Scholarship in Physical Therapy, University of
Michigan-Flint ~_...50,000
Jack Roth, Malibu, California
for endowed scholarships in the Department of Athletics                       12,000
Donald H. Runck, Green Valley, Arizona
for financial aid and other support in the School of Business Administration _8,0 00
Jonathan Rye, Birmingham
for the School of Business Administration Growth Fund __.20,000
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School _~-...7,000
Santen Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Osaka, Japan
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School _.50,000
Richard N. Sams, Ann Arbor
for the School of Business Administration, Division of Kinesiology, Museum of Art,
and Michigan Annual Fund _......~8,100
Milton J. Schloss, Cincinnati, Ohio
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics _5,000
Mrs. Richard C. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School _......10,000


234




February Meeting, 1993


Werner W. Schroeder Estate
for the Gerald R. Ford Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts -_7,896
Searle Family Trust, Northbrook, Illinois
for Campaign for Michigan gifts pending designation.193,548
Joseph R. Seiger, Foster City, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law School _             10,000
Dennis G. Severance, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration _6,000
Eloise H. Sheldon Estate
6,816 shares of various securities for the Eloise H. Sheldon Scholarship in the
School of Nursing...._298,211
Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...25,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for the Donald R. Shepherd Chair in Conducting in the School of Music and for
support in the Department of Athletics..........222,000
Howard F. Sims, Detroit
for the Sims Medal and Award Program in the School of Social Work  6 6....... 5,667
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  _   10,298
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research..........99,303
Donald S. Smith, Davisburg
for the Donald S. Smith Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the University of Michigan....10,000
Thomas H. Snyder, Wilmette, Illinois
for unrestricted support in the Law School __.....5......._..,000
J. Clyde Spencer, East Lansing
for the Isadore Lampe Fund in the Medical School.5,000
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
for the George E., Jr. and Elizabeth S. Sperling Endowment in the Law School - -. 5,000
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration, and the Colleges
of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts..25....22,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint  -__.  5,903
Stephen A. Stone, Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts
for endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts     0..35,000
Lewis Tann, Troy
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, School of Engineering  5..56,000
Tauber Family Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law School and for the Growth Fund in
the School of Business Administration..8,000
A. Alfred Taubman Revocable Trust, Bloomfield Hills
for the University of Michigan Hospitals                           1      1,600,000
TenBroeck Irrevocable Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Jane and Howard M. TenBroeck Scholarship in the College of Engineering..8,800
Lawrason D. Thomas, Chicago, Illinois
for project support in the Schools of Business Administration and Nursing and in
the College of Engineering _...,0000
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
for the Time Warner Fellowship for Minority Journalists in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies _-                                               560,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Hospitals......12,500
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Preston R. Tisch Professorship in Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts_ -~_-509....60,000
Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
for the Lemuel L. Laing Fellowship in the School of Business Administration _. 7,000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Clements Library Associates Fund..................5,000
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics _65,500


235




February Meeting, 1993


Constantine A. Tsangadas Estate
for the Post-Classical Greek Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies....................10,841
Alston K Twiss, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration. _. _.........5,000
Robert Patterson Ufer, Ann Arbor
for the Bob Ufer Memorial Fund, and for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics _......,....16,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School _.......6,226
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group
for scholarships in the Alumni Association _........,260
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, Saint Joseph
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics.____........20,000
Ame Vennema, Houston, Texas
5,000 shares of Schlumberger, Ltd. common stock for the Ame Vennema Charitable
Remainder Unitrust, for the ultimate benefit of the Ame and Catherine Vennema
Professorship in the College of Engineering _...... 340,156
Michael S. Vitton, Brooklyn, New York
for student aid in the School of Business Administration __...,                  250
Robert J. Vizas, Berkeley, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts _.........20,000
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for the William S. Smith Research Fund in the Medical School and for support in
the School of Education, Division of Kinesiology, and Department of Athletics..................6,000
Timothy Wadhams, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics and for support of
the School of Business Administration, and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts -___......,000
Harvey A. Wagner, Grosse Pointe Park
for the Harvey A. Wagner Fellowship in the College of Engineering,_0.6,000
DeWitt Wallace-Reader's Digest Fund, New York, New York
for support in the School of Education _.......829,584
Gail L. Warden, Grosse Pointe
for the Health Services Management and Policy Program, School of Public Health _.. 5,000
H. Warshow & Sons, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School _......10,000
Bruce J. Wasserstein, New York, New York
for the Morris Wasserstein Student Aid Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts......     16.....................................................,000
Wetsman Foundation, Detroit
for the William Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration __ 5,000
Cornelia B. Wilbur Estate
for the Cornelia B. Wilbur Fund._..44         44,936
Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, Washington, D.C.
for the John H. Pickering Scholarship in the Law School _.._...20,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the Prechter Laboratory for Interactive Technology in the School of Education _-  100,000
Asa G. Yancey, Sr., Atlanta, Georgia
for unrestricted support of the Medical School _5,000
Roy H. and Helen M. Ziegler, Ann Arbor
7,648 shares of various corporate common stocks and cash gift of $10,000 for the
Roy H. and Helen M. Ziegler Charitable Remainder Unitrust, for the ultimate benefit
of the Medical School, the Department of Athletics, and the Roy Ziegler Family
Scholarship in the College of Engineeering __367,465
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Allied-Signal, Inc., Southfield
testing furnaces and related equipment for the Department of Materials Science and
Engineering
Brides by Elizabeth, Ltd., Clio
forty party dresses for the theatre department, University of Michigan-Flint
John C. Dann, Dexter
a collection of 19th and early 20th century photographica for the Clements Library


236




February Meeting, 1993


Discount Computer, Inc., Detroit
twelve computer tables with accessories for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department
of Computing Services
Russell Hughes, Farmington Hills
computer hardware parts and accessories for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Department
of Institutional Advancement
Scott F. Madden, Ann Arbor
a three-octave Jenco vibraphone for the School of Music
Motorola, Inc., Austin, Texas
a computer application development system with assembler and compiler software and boards
for the University of Michigan-Flint Department of Physics and Engineering Science
David L. Wisniewski, Detroit
computer hardware accessories for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of
Computing Services
Additional gifts fanging from $1 to $999 in value, were received from the following donors:


John Arthos, Jr., Ann Arbor
Robin Barlow, Ann Arbor
James H. Beck, Ann Arbor
Alan G. Billings, Ann Arbor
James W. Brown, Ann Arbor
Edward 0. Cox, Grand Rapids
John C. Dann, Dexter
Harry J. Dicken, Milan
Otto Grau, Dearborn
Kustom Signals, Inc., Lenexa, Kansas
David Mackey, Lansing
Philip P. Mason, Detroit
Janet Nellis Mendler, Pinckney
Victor H. Miesel, Ann Arbor
Lawrence B. Mohr, Ann Arbor
Robert K. Moore, Linden


Alex Neshkes, Southfield
Anne Orrell, Cardinal, Virginia
June E. Osborn, Ann Arbor
John Griffiths Pedley, Ann Arbor
Philip H. Peter, Bridgeman
Paul L. Russell, Elk Rapids
Joanna H. Schoff, Morrisville, Vermont
Graham Smith, Ann Arbor
Robert M. Ster, Ann Arbor
Helen M. Swinton, New York, New York
Touch of Light Studio & Gallerie, Ferndale
Harold Vandercook, Millington
Woodward A. Warrick, Jr., Plymouth
Kenneth B. West, Flint
Mary E. Whitney, Saginaw


Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Wars, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions. It was pointed out that
among the recommendations was the appointment of Homer A       Neal as vice
president for research, effective September 1, 1993.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective March 1, 1993
Odd P. Eldevik, MD., Associate Professor of Radiology
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Herbert C. Barrows, Jr., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to
active status, winter term 1993
Thomas L. Coffey, Professor Emeritus of Sociology/Anthropology/Social Work, UM-Flint,
reappointed to active status, winter term 1993


237




February Meeting, 1993


John G. Cross, Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Budget and
Administration, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed Associate Dean
for Budget and Administration, two-year term, July 1, 1993
Thomas J. DeKornfeld, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Professor Emeritus of
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, reappointed to active status,
one-year term
Kenneth J. DeWoskin, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, and Chair,
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, reappointed Chair, Department of Asian
Languages and Cultures, three-year term, July 1, 1994
Richard I. Ford, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, Professor of Botany, without tenure,
and Chair, Department of Anthropology, reappointed Chair, Department of Anthropology,
three-year term, July 1, 1993
Wilfred Kaplan, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to active status, winter
term 1993
Alfred Meyer, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, reappointed to active status, winter
term 1993
Norman S. Radin, Professor Emeritus of Neurochemistry, reappointed to active status, one-year
term
Thomas M. Sawyer, Professor Emeritus of Technical Communication, reappointed to active
status, one-year term
J. Radcliffe Squires, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to
active status, winter term 1993
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Michael Awkward, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Afroamerican
and African studies, with tenure, also appointed Director, Center for Afroamerican and
African Studies, three-year term
Willam R. Farrand, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, also appointed Director of the
Exhibit Museum, five-year term
John E. Jackson, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Prof.ssor of Business
Administration, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Political Science,
five-year term, July 1, 1994
Pierre T. Kabamba, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure
Donald R. Kinder, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology, with
tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of Political Science, ten-month term,
September 1, 1993
Louis E. Loeb, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Philosophy, five-year term
Donald J. Munro, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Professor of Chinese, with tenure,
also appointed Interim Chair, Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, eleven-month
term, August 1, 1993
Homer A Neal, from Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Physics, to
Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Vice President for Research, five-year term,
September 1, 1993
Maris A Vinovskis, Professor of History, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
History, three-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Slections Committee
Geraldine B. Ford, one-year term ending December 31,1993, to succeed herself
Horace H. Rackham School of Grduate Studies Executive Board
Richard I. Ford, four-month term ending April 30, 1993, vice Sherry Ortner, on leave


238




February Meeting, 1993


University Musical Societ
Herbert Amster, reroactive from January 1, 1991, to December 31,1993, vice Gilbert R.
Whitaker Jr., resigned
Maurice Binkow, retroactive from January 1, 1991, to December 31, 1993, vice Richard L.
Kennedy, term expired
Norman G. Herbert, retroactive from January 1, 1988, to December 31, 1993, to succeed himself
Thomas E. Kauper, retroactive from January 1, 1991, to December 31, 1993, to succeed himself
Judythe R. Maugh, rtroactive from January 1, 1991, to December 31, 1993, to succeed herself
Extension of leave of absence. The Regents approved an extension of
the leave of absence for Martin J. Powers, associate professor of history of art,
through the academic year of 1993-94.
William Russell Kelly Professorship in Business Administration.
The Regents approved the establishment of the William Russell Kelly Professorship in Business Administration, effective February 1, 1993.
L. Bates Lea Visiting Professorship in Law. The Regents approved the
establishment of the L. Bates Lea Visiting Professorship in Law, effective March
1, 1993.
Mary Fair Croushore Professorship. The Regents approved the establishment of the Mary Fair Croushore Professorship, effective February 18, 1993.
James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence. The
Regents approved the appointment of Hartry Field as the James B. and Grace J.
Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence for winter term 1993.
Gardner C. Quarton Professor of Neurosciences in the Mental
Health Research Institute, Department of Psychiatry. The Regents approved the appointment of Huda Akil as the Gardner C. Quarton Professor of
Neurosciences in the Mental Health Research Institute, Department of Psychiatry, for a five-year term, effective May 1, 1993.
Theophile Raphael Professor of Neurosciences in the Mental
Health Research Institute, Department of Psychiatry. The Regents approved the appointment of Stanley J. Watson, Jr., as the Theophile Raphael
Professor of Neurosciences in the Mental Health Research Institute, Department
of Psychiatry, for a five-year term, effective May 1, 1993.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINIST RATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effetive January 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Kent J. Benham, DD.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
David R. Grife, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, November 16, 1992
Bonnie A. Pounder, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry


239




February Meeting, 1993


Colleee of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Jonathan R Besancon, M., Lecturer II in Asian Laguages and Cultures
Tara C. Browner, M.M., Lecturer II in American Culture
Lorenzo Z. Buj, Ph-D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature
Dianna S. Campbell, MA, Lecturer II in English
Natalie S. Davidson, MA, Lecturer I in Psychology
Michael C. Dreiling, BA, Lecturer II in Sociology
Karen S. Ebeling, PhD., Lecturer II in Psychology
Rodrigo P. Gomez, B.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics
Eileen John, BA, Lecturer II in Philosophy
Roderick K. Linzie, MA, Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies
Pawel R. Lutomski, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Thylias Moss, MA, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature
Brownson Murray, L.L.B., Lecturer II in Communication
Lisa T. Nielsen, M3A, Lecturer II in Communication
Michael L. O'Hearon, BA, Lecturer II in Sociology
Karen A Ocorr, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Coleen R. Pugh, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering
Elinor B. Rosenberg, M.S.W., Lecturer II in Psychology
Yaakova Sacerdoti, MA, Lecturer I in Hebrew Language, December 1, 1992
Leah Waks, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Communication
Vincent A Wellman, J.D., Lecturer I in Philosophy
Leon C. Wilson, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies
Eileen Zerba, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Biology
Medical School
Carmen R. Green, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Kimberly M. Greenwald, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Catherine G. Jackson, M.B.Ch.B., Lecturer in Radiology
John D. McAllister, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Lori Q. Riegger, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Ming R. Wang, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENT
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature. Science and the Arts
Diana I. Cordova, Assistant Professor of Psychology, September 1, 1993 (previously reported as
January 1, 1993)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise ndicated
Schol of Business Administration
Richard M. Frankel, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Accounting
Anand Swaminthan, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy
Medical School
Mohammad Ghaziuddin, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, November 1, 1992
Howard B. Gutstein, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, January 1, 1993
Michael F. Haney, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor n of Anesthesiology,
January 1, 1993


240




February Meeting, 1993


Peter F. Hitchcock, from Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology to Assistant Professor
of Ophthalmology and Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, April 1, 1992
UM-Flint School of Management
Samuel Mensah, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Finance
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Academic Affairs
George D. Zuidema, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, and Vice Provost for
Medical Affairs, administrative leave, January 1-March 31,1993, and January 1 -March 31, 1994
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Robert W. Marans, Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1993
Colege of Engineering
Arch W. Naylor, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
aow School
Layman E. Allen, Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1992
Colege of Literature. Science. and the Arts
Alexander N. Halliday, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1993
Nesha Z. Haniff, Lecturer in Afroamerican and African Studies and Women's Studies, research
leave, January 1-December 31,1993
Virginia C. Kane, Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 22-December 31, 1992
Mustansir Mir, Assistant Professor of Near Eastern Studies, leave without salary, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Homer A Neal, Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Chair, Department ofPhysics, duty off
campus, January 15-April 14,1993
Thomas F. Storer, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 25 -May 31, 1993
John A Whittier-Ferguson, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, scholarly
activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Medial School
Eugene E. Dekker, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, retirement furlough,
January 1-December 31, 1993
School of Natural Resources and Environment
James S. Diana, Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1993
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Science and Letters
E. Bayne Carew, Professor of Biology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1993
Bernard W. Klein, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, and Professor of Public Administration, without tenure, School of Education,
riretiment furlough, January 5-December 31, 1993
Philip H. Peter, Associate Professor of Music and Humanities, with tenure, extended sick leave,
September 22-30, 1992, and retirement furlough, October 1, 1992-April 30,1993


241




February Meeting, 1993


UM-Fint Colege of Arts and Sciences
Frank E. Rose, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -May31,1993
CHANGES TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Colee of Engineering
Thomas M. Donahue, Edward H. White II Distinguished University Professor of Planetary
Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of Physics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, phased retirement, February 1, 1993-May 15,
1994 (previously reported as October 16, 1992January 15, 1994)
Photios G. Ioannou, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1,1992-May 31,1993 (previously reported as September 1-December 31,1992)
Collee of Literature Science. and the Arts
Virginia C. Kane, Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, duty off campus, January
1-May 31,1993 (previously reported as September 1-December 31,1992)
Maris A. Vinovskis, Professor of History, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1,
1992-May 31,1993 (previously reported as September 1-December 31,1992)
Medical School
Thomas L. Schwenk, Associate Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, Chair, Department of
Family Practice, and Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education, without tenure, sabbatical leave, December 29, 1992-May 4, 1993 (previously
reported as January 1-April 30, 1993)
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Collee of Engineering
George C. Summerfield, Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, with tenure, cancellation of sabbatical leave (previously reported as
January 1- May 31, 1993)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Marlys G. Lipe, Assistant Professor of Accounting, May 31,1994
Kerk L. Phillips, Assistant Professor of International Business and Business Administration,
May 31, 1993
School ofDentistry
Richard F. Scott, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, and Instructor in Surgery,
Medical School, December 31,1992
CoUeee of Engineerng
George C. Summerfield, Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, with tenure, December 31,1992


242




February Meeting, 1993


College of Literture. Science. and the Arts
Frank M. Andrews, Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Population and International Health, School of Public Health,
December 23, 1992
David N. Freedman, Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, and Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor of Biblical Studies, December 31, 1992
Martin G. Gold, Professor of Psychology, without tenure, December 31, 1992
Medi/l School
Marvin A Brandwin, Assistant Professor of Psychology, July 31 1992
Miriam L. Greenberg, Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, December 31, 1992
Frederick M. Maynard, Associate Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, with tenure,
February 28, 1993
G. Keith Mulholland, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, January 15, 1993
Nicholas Reynolds, Lecturer in Dermatology, December 29, 1992
Rosalie Tocco-Bradley, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, December 31, 1992
Debara L. Tucci, Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, December 22, 1992
Bryant Villeponteau, Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, December 31, 1992
UMFlint College of Arts and Sciences
Linda A Borgsdorf, Lecturer in Education, December 31, 1992
Jonathon L. Cox, Assistant Professor of Nursing, December 31, 1992
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Mary A. Cooper, associate professor of education in the College of Arts
and Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1992, after a most productive career as a devoted teacher, advisor, and counselor to students.
Professor Cooper received her B.M. degree from Marygrove College in 1950
and her AM. and PhD. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1968 and
1970, respectively. She joined the faculty of the University of Michigan-Flint in
1970 as an assistant professor, and was promoted to associate professor with tenure in 1974.
Professor Cooper has been the faculty advisor for the honorary education
society, Kappa Delta Pi In that capacity, she has worked with students to sponsor on-campus educational seminars and programs and has attended national
Kappa Delta Pi conferences with students. She also served as co-director of the
UM-F/Sobey School Partnership Tutoring Project. As a member of three north
central evaluation teams in Detroit, Flint, and Pontiac, she has worked closely
with other professional educators in that capacity. Professor Cooper served as
chair of the Science Foundation Council for the Flint Community Schools from
1984-87.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for her dedicated
service by naming Mary A Cooper Associate Professor Emeritus of Education.
Gerhard Dunnhaupt, professor of Germanic languages and literatures,
retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1992.
Born in Bernburg, Germany, Professor Dunnhaupt received his B.A degree, summa cum laude, in modern languages and literatures from the University of Toronto in 1968, and his M.A and Ph.D. degrees in German from Brown


243




February Meeting, 1993


University in 1970 and 1972, respectively. After serving on the faculty of the University of Washington from 1972-76, he came to the University of Michigan in
1976 as a visiting associate professor. He was appointed associate professor with
tenure in 1977 and was promoted to professor in 1978.
One of the leaders in Renaissance and in baroque literature, Professor
Dunnhaupt is both a celebrated scholar and a beloved teacher. His many
accomplishments include his three-volume Bibliographisches Handbuch der Barockliteratur, his five-volume, 4,000-page Personalbibliographien zu den Drucken
des Barock, as well as many editions, articles, and conference presentations.
Among his many honors and awards are the International Prize in Bibliography
(1985) and his election as a fellow of the Royal Society of Canada (1990). Professor Dunnhaupt also chaired the International Martin Luther King Conference
held in Ann Arbor in 1983.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his outstanding accomplishments and contributions as a teacher and scholar by naming Gerhard
Dunnhaupt Professor Emeritus of Germanic Languages and Literatures.
David N. Freedman, Arthur F. Thurau Professor of Biblical Studies and
professor of Near Eastern studies, retired from active faculty status on December
31, 1992, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
A native of New York, Professor Freedman studied at the City College of
New York and received his AB. degree from the University of California at
Berkeley in 1939. He received his Th.B. degree from Princeton Theological Seminary in 1944, and then went on to graduate school at The Johns Hopkins University where he received his Ph.D. degree in Semitic languages and literatures
in 1948.
From 1948-59, Professor Freedman served on the faculty of Western Theological Seminary in Pittsburgh, after which he joined the Pittsburgh Theological
Seminary where he served as a professor of Hebrew and Old Testament until
1964. He then moved to San Francisco where he taught at both the San
Francisco Theological Seminary and the Graduate Theological Union until 1971.
Professor Freedman joined the University of Michigan as professor of Near
Eastern languages and literatures and director of the Program on Studies in Religion in 1971. He was named the Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Biblical
Studies in 1984. He served as a visiting professor at the University of California
at San Diego during 1985-86 and was named professor of Hebrew biblical studies
there in the winter of 1987.
Professor Freedman is one of the world's most distinguished specialists on
the Old Testament. His interests range from history to poetics, and to textual
criticism. He has pioneered the quantitative study of ancient Hebrew verse, and
has written extensively on the redaction of the various books of the Pentateuch.
In addition to his original writings, Professor Freedman has had an enormous influence on the worlds of scholarship and the general reading public through his
vigorous editorial work. As the main editor of the Anchor Bible series and the
Anchor Bible Dictionary, he has provided the English-speaking world with some
of the most important tools for the study of the Old Testament.


244




February Meeting, 1993


The Regents now salute this distinguished Old Testament scholar for his
dedicated service by naming David N. Freedman Professor Emeritus of Near
Eastern Studies.
Werner H. Grilk, assistant professor of German in the Department of
Germanic Languages and Literatures, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1992.
Professor Grilk was bor in Davenport, Iowa, on January 9, 1928. He received his B.S. degree in 1951 from Northwestern University. He completed his
M.A degree in 1960 and his Ph.D. degree in 1966, both at the University of
Michigan. He joined the faculty in 1962 as an instructor and was promoted to assistant professor in 1965.
Since 1965, Professor Grilk has been a member of the Bibliography Committee, Germanic Section, of the Modem Language Association. He became cochair in 1973 and was its chair from 1977-80, thus contributing to one of the
most important and widely-used guides to international scholarship in literature,
linguistics, and folklore.
Although Professor Grilk's area of major scholarly interest is Austrian comedy, with special focus on the plays of Grillparzer and Nestroy, his teaching and
conference presentations have drawn on a widely-based knowledge of 19th and
20th century German literature, art, and political history. The breadth of his interests is cearly shown by the number of doctoral committees on which he has
served in units outside his home department. An active and committed teacher of
undergraduate courses in German literature, Professor Grilk regularly served on
undergraduate prize selection committees and fellowship committees, and participated in the Junior-Year-in- Freiburg selection process. He was the German
concentration advisor from 1965-76.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his outstanding accomplishments and contributions by naming Werner H. Grilk Assistant Professor
Emeritus of German.
Paul L Olson, research scientist in the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, retired from active faculty status on March 13,
1992, after a highly productive career as a researcher and administrator.
A native of Chicago, Paul Olson received his B.S. degree from the University
of Illinois in 1957 and his Ph.D. degree from Purdue University in 1959. He then
took a position as a senior research psychologist at General Motors Corporation's
Research Laboratories in Warren, Michigan, where he began his life-long study
of human behavior with regard to driver judgment, driver response, and driver
information processing.
In 1971, Dr. Olson came to the University of Michigan as a research
psychologist at the Highway Safety Research Institute. There he studied assessments of lighting and signaling systems, rear view mirror curvature and reflectivity, driver response to traffic signals, nighttime legibility and conspicuity of
traffic signs, and drivers' ability to judge spacing between vehicles in traffic. In
1975, Dr. Olson was appointed head of the institute's Human Factors Division
where he continued his investigations into driver perception and cognitive skills,
studying the effects of such variables as brain damage, driver age, and nighttime


245




February Meeting, 1993


driving. Dr. Olson's expertise included the effects of photometrics involved in a
driver's ability to recognize signals, signs, and other vehicles. Of particular note
is his pioneering work on older drivers and the special issues presented by this
rapidly growing segment of our population.
Dr. Olson's unique contributions to the field of traffic safety involved the
application of psychology, human performance, and behavior to problems of driving. Knowledge derived from his research has been applied to automobile design
and to the design of materials and laws affecting our nation's highways. For his
outstanding work, Dr. Olson has been honored by election as a fellow of the Human Factors Society and, in 1980, received the society's AR. Lauer Award for
outstanding contributions to the understanding of driver behavior. In 1987, he
received the Ralph H. Isbrandt Automotive Safety Engineering Award from the
Society of Automotive Engineers, given to the author of the best paper on safety
presented at the society's annual meeting.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Paul L. Olson Research Scientist Emeritus.
George C. Summerfield, professor of nuclear engineering and macromolecular science and engineering, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1992.
After receiving his B.S. (1958) and Ph.D. (1962) degrees in physics from
Michigan State University, Professor Summerfield joined the University of
Michigan as a postdoctoral scholar in the Department of Nuclear Engineering in
1962. He was appointed assistant professor in 1963, and was promoted to associate professor in 1965 and professor in 1970.
Professor Summerfield has been a member of the Macromolecular Science
and Engineering Center, which is indicative of his interdisciplinary research abilities and interests, for over 25 years. He has advised numerous undergraduate
and graduate students, many of whom have gone on to establish outstanding
reputations in their own fields. Professor Summerfield has also served on several
departmental and college-wide committees, including the Nuclear Engineering
Executive Committee, the Curriculum Committee, and the College of Engineering Scholastic Standing Committee.
During his early years at Michigan, Professor Summerfield contributed substantively to the theory of neutron transport, including a well-known paper that
proved the completeness of the half-range solutions to the linear Boltzmann
equation. During this period, the University of Michigan was acknowledged to be
the leading center of research in neutron transport theory, and Professor
Summerfield was a principal participant in this effort Having earned a national
reputation in neutron transport theory, Professor Summerfield has applied his
expertise in mathematics and physics to the investigation of extremely difficult
problems in slow neutron scattering, polymer dynamics, and crystal phase
changes. He has published over 50 papers in prestigious journals, which have
brought recognition and distinction to the University of Michigan. As a valued
member of the faculty for three decades, Professor Summerfield has helped the
Department of Nuclear Engineering earn its reputation as one of the best nuclear engineering departments in the United States.


246




February Meeting, 1993


The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished career by
naming George C. Summerfield Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and
Macromolecular Science and Engineering.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the final degree list for the August 21, 1992, Law School
commencement and the final degree lists for the December 22, 1992, commencements of the schools, colleges, and divisions specified in the Regents Communication. They also approved certain specified changes to previously approved degree
lists. A copy of the degree lists and changes is on file in the Office of the Secretary
of the University.
Semi-Annual Report for the Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities
Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund
The Regents received a schedule summarizing the activity in the Designated
Fund, Axiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund for the sixmonth periods ending December 31, 1992, and December 31, 1991.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUMTV for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1992
Regent McFee moved approval of the audited financial reports for WUOM/
WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1992;
Regent Power seconded the motion. Mr. Gordon Lawrence, director of broadcast
and media resources at UM-Flint, and Mr. Joel Seguine, manager of radio station
WUOM, were present and responded to questions from the Regents about the
University's radio and television stations.
Among the issues raised were expanding the coverage of WUOM/WVGR/
WFUM to the northern part of the state and resumption of the University's
broadcasts of football and basketball games. Following further discussion, the
vote was taken, and the Regents unanimously approved the public broadcasting
audits for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1992.
Investment Reports
Vice President Womack submitted the new, comprehensive report on the
University's invested funds. He noted that the Report on Investment Transactions will be discontinued and replaced by this more informative investment report, which includes performance indicators on many asset classes. The new
report will require approval of a change in the Regents' Bylaws, a request for
which will be forthcoming.


247




February Meeting, 1993


Sale of $66,080,000 Regents of the University of Michigan Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1993A, 1993B, and 1993C
Vice President Womack informed the Regents of the sale of $66,080,000
Regents of the University of Michigan Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds,
Series 1993A, 1993B, and 1993C to a syndicate led by Prudential Securities, Inc.,
as described in the Regents Communication. Following some discussion, the
Regents requested a report on the savings realized by all of the refinancing that
has been done in recent months.
Oil and Gas Investment
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $5 million of the University Endowment
Fund to the TCW Commingled Debt and Royalty Fund IV, L.P.
Venture Capital Investment
Regent Deitch moved, Regent McGowan seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved commitment of $10 million of the University Endowment Fund
to Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe VI, L.P., pending the general counsel's review of the partnership documents for legal acceptability.
Marquette County Real Estate
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously authorized acceptance of an offer to purchase Government Lot 5 of
Section 8, T47N, R30W, Republic Township, Marquette County, as described in
the Regents Communication.
UM-Flint Frances Willson Thompson Library
Chancellor Jones informed the Regents that a contract for construction of
the Frances Willson Thompson Library has been awarded to the low bidder,
Walbridge, Aldinger Co. of Detroit.
Matthaei Botanical Gardens Outdoor Garden Areas
Vice President Womack called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, to describe a project to develop several new gardens and a new pathway system for the
Matthaei Botanical Gardens. Mr. Mayer gave a presentation that included schematic drawings of the proposed garden areas, and noted that the improvements
would be implemented in stages as funds become available.
Ms. Patricia Hopkinson, associate director of the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, was present and responded to questions from the Regents. Regent Power
moved approval of proceeding with the project as described in the Regents Communication, and Regent McGowan seconded the motion. Regent Power noted
that the gardens are important both for research and for making contacts with
various public constituencies. Following some discussion, the vote was taken and
the motion was unanimously approved.


248




February Meeting, 1993


Randall Laboratory Addition
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the following with respect to the Randall Laboratory
addition: the revised project scope and budget, solicitation of bids, and awarding
of a construction contract to the successful bidder, providing the contract values
are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Art Museum
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Luckenbach/Ziegelman and Partners
as the architectural  m for the UM-Dearborn art museum project.
Intercollegiate Athletics UM Golf Course Clubhouse Restoration
Regent Brown moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved proceeding with Phase I of the UM Golf Course clubhouse restoration project, as described in the Regents Communication.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) Expansion of the
Pediatric Cardio-thoracic Unit in University of Michigan Hospitals (UMH) C.S.
Mott Children's Hospital; 2) Improvement of the second level pedestrian connection between University Hospital and Taubman Center in UMH (Level 2
Transition Upgrade); 3) UMH Radiation Oncology parking lot expansion; 4)
UMH M-18 parking structure/Taubman Center vestibules and entrances upgrade; 5) Infrastructure and laboratory renovation in the Medical Science I
Building, 6) Ruthven Museum renovation; 7) Renovation of the second floor of
the Neuroscience Laboratory Building, and 8) Renovations in the School of
Education Building to provide a multi-media facility.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Audiocomp, Inc.
Regent Brown moved, Regent McGowan seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved the University's entering into a license agreement with Audiocomp, Inc. ("Audiocomp"), a company whose shareholders include University
professors David Anderson and David Neuhoff and former University students
Donghoon Lee and Omar Nemri. Because Professors Anderson and Neuhoff are
both current University employees and parties to the contract, this arrangement
falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Audiocomp, a
corporation in which Messrs. Anderson, Neuhoff, Lee, and Nemri retain significant ownership interests.
2.  Terms of the contract include: a duration of the term of the last to expire of
any issuing patents and consideration to the University consisting of the
payment of royalties, including modest minimum annual requirements, on


249




February Meeting, 1993


products covered by patents; a share of sublicensing revenues received by Audiocomp; and reimbursement of any future University patent filing and prosecution costs, if applicable. Audiocomp will pay the University royalties at a
rate of 1.5 percent for products sold, except that no royalties shall be due on
products sold prior to 1995. Audiocomp will also pay the University 10.0 percent of any sublicensing revenues Audiocomp receives. Minimum royalties shall
commence in 1996 at $2,000 per year. The University retains ownership of all
technology. The University retains the right to use the technology for research,
teaching, and other educationally-related purposes. Audiocomp shall diligently
uue the commercial development and exploitation of the technology covered
by the proposed license agreement. There is no use of facilities or services of the
University included in the contract and no assignment of University employees
for fulfillment of the contract.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Professors Anderson and Neuhoff in the contract
arises from their ownership of shares of Audiocomp. This equity interest (as
well as the equity interests of Messrs. Lee and Nemri) will be in lieu of participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University, in accordance with
standard University policy.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Vetgen, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the University's entering into a license agreement with
Vetgen, Inc. ("Vetgen"). Because two of the owners of Vetgen, George Brewer
and Vilma Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan, are both University employees and parties to the
contract, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. (Shareholders/employees at Michigan State University are also parties to
the contract and will be subject to Conflict of Interest Statute requirements
through Michigan State University.) The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Vetgen, a corporation owned in part by Dr. George Brewer and Dr. Vilma Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan.
2.   Summaries of the terms of the contracts follow:
Summnary of proposed "577 technology" license agreement between the University of Michigan, Michigan State University and Vetgen, Inc.
License: Exclusive license of animal genetic probes and linkages to animal genetic diseases (IPO File #577) developed in performance of a research project
sponsored by the Morris Animal Foundation, currently scheduled to be completed in February, 1995 (the research project includes subcontracted research
to be performed by MSU - agreements are in effect allowing UM to license
MSU's ownership interest in the technology, and to share proceeds from licensing with MSU and the research sponsor);
Scope of technology licensed: In order for any particular developed probe or
linkage to be included as part of the exclusive license, Vetgen must have
reached agreement with the developer (whether from UM or MSU) of that
probe or linkage to provide for the sharing of the rewards of its commercialization through Vetgen (by partial ownership, employment or other compensation) rather than through the royalty sharing policies of the UM or MSU. In
any instance in which such an agreement between Vetgen and a developer
would result in the addition of a previously unnamed UM or MSU researcher to
the relationship between the Universities and Vetgen, full details will be provided to UM Medical School for review according to their conflict of interest
procedures (or to MSU for review according to their conflict of interest


250




February Meeting, 1993


procedures, as appropriate);
Field of Use: Veterinary uses only. The University agrees to negotiate in good
faith to allow Vetgen to expand its activities to include human uses of the
technology, if human uses are shown, provided Vetgen can demonstrate commitment to making such human uses available to the public;
Ownership: UM and MSU retain ownership of all licensed technology, and control of all patent application processes. UM and MSU retain the right to use the
licensed technology for research, teaching and other educationally-related
purposes; and for all purposes outside of the field of use. Any intellectual property relating to the technology that is developed by a UM or MSU employee simultaneously acting as employee or consultant to Vetgen shall be assigned to
the employing University,
Term: 10 years or the life of the last to expire of any patents licensed under the
agreement;
Consideration: Payment of royalties on sales of products or services by Vetgen
based upon the technology, including specified modest minimum annual royalties required in order to maintain exclusive rights. Royalties will be paid to the
University at a rate of 4% for products or services which are not covered by
University patents; 5% for products or services which are covered by University
patents paid for by Vetgen; and 6% for products or services which are covered
by University patents not paid for by Vetgen. Minimum royalties shall commence in the year following the first sale of a product or service (no later than
1999), at $5,000, and progress thereafter, increasing to a requirement of
$25,000 in the sixth year following the first sale (and in each year thereafter
during the remainder of the agreement);
There is no use of facilities or services of UM or MSU included in the contract
and no assignment of UM or MSU employees for ffillment of the contract.
Summary of proposed "723 technology" license agreement between the University of Michigan. Michigan State University and Vetgen, Inc.
License: Exclusive license of four existing animal genetic probes and linkages
to animal genetic diseases developed through Dr. Brewer's 'short-cut' method,
and future probes which meet the following criteria: (i) a genetic probe developed using the 'short-cut' method, (ii) which is developed by UM or MSU researchers and disclosed to UM or MSU within 5 years from the start of the
agreement, (iii) for which neither University has conflicting obligations to a
third party, and (iv) which is not developed as a part of the Morris Animal
Foundation research Project (IPO File #723) (work on the 'short-cut' technology is proceeding at both UM and MSU. UM will collect all royalties, and share
them equally with MSU per a separate agreement to be put into effect between
UM and MSU);
Scope of technology licensed: In order for any particular developed probe or
linkage to be included as part of the exclusive license, Vetgen must have
reached agreement with the developer (whether from UM or MSU) of that
probe or linkage to provide for the sharing of the rewards of its commercialization through Vetgen (by partial ownership, employment or other compensation) rather than through the royalty sharing policies of the UM or MSU. In
any instance in which such an agreement between Vetgen and a developer
would result in the addition of a previously unnamed UM or MSU researcher to
the relationship between the Universities and Vetgen, full details will be provided to UM Medical School for review according to their conflict of interest
procedures (or to MSU for review according to their conflict of interest procedures, as appropriate);
Field of Use: Veterinary uses only. The University agrees to negotiate in good
faith to allow Vetgen to expand its activities to include human uses of the


251




February Meeting, 1993


technology, if human uses are shown, provided Vetgen can demonstrate commitment to making such human uses available to the public;
Ownership: UM and MSU retain ownership of all licensed technology, and control of all patent application processes. UM and MSU retain the right to use the
licensed technology for research, teaching and other educationally-related purposes; and for all purposes outside of the field of use. Any intellectual property
relating to the technology that is developed by a UM or MSU employee simultaneously acting as employee or consultant to Vetgen shall be assigned to the employing University;
Term: 10 years or the life of the last to expire of any patents licensed under the
agreement;
Consideration: Payment of royalties on sales of products or services by Vetgen
based upon the technology, including specified modest minimum annual royalties required in order to maintain exclusive rights. Royalties will be paid to the
University at a rate of 4% for products or services which are not covered by
University patents; 5% for products or services which are covered by University
patents paid for by Vetgen; and 6% for products or services which are covered
by University patents not paid for by Vetgen. Minimum royalties shall commence in 1996 at $4,000, and progress thereafter, increasing to a requirement
of $10,000 in 1998 and in each year thereafter during the remainder of the
agreement;
There is no use of facilities or services of UM or MSU included in the contract
and no assignment of UM or MSU employees for fulfillment of the contract.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Drs. Brewer and Yuzbasiyan-Gurkan in the contract
arises from their ownership of shares of Vetgen. This equity interest, as well as
the equity or other interest which may be provided to any other researcher at
the University who in the future contributes to this technology, will be in lieu of
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University, in
accordance with standard University policy.
1993-94 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Vice President Hartford announced that approval was being sought for a
rate increase of 4.6 percent for residence halls and 4.7 percent for family housing
apartments. She noted that the proposed increases had been recommended by
the Single Student and Family Housing Rate Study Committees.
Regent Brown moved approval of a rate increase of 4.6 percent for residence
halls and 4.7 percent for family housing apartments for the 1993-94 academic
year. Regent Waters seconded the motion.
In response to a question from Regent Deitch, Vice President Hartford
stated that although the opening date for the residence halls for the fall term had
not yet been determined, it will most likely be either the Thursday or Friday
prior to Labor Day. However, room and board fees will not be charged until the
traditional opening day, which is the Saturday prior to Labor Day. Some food
service will be available and students will pay for any meals eaten from the time
they move in until the first official day of food service begins on the following
Tuesday.
Regent Power commented that it was appropriate for the University to
withdraw a request for a residence hall fee increase that had been sought initially


252




February Meeting, 1993


because of an oversight on the part of the University in scheduling a football
game on the traditional move-in day.
Discussion then followed about orientation activities for new students. Vice
President Hartford reported that her office has been working with the provost's
office and the deans to plan a full week of welcome, in conjunction with a probable revision of the academic calendar. Full implementation of this plan would
occur in the fall of 1994. Regent Deitch observed that the first day of college is a
special day in the lives of both students and parents, as is the first football game.
President Duderstadt pointed out that the University is exceptional among
other universities in not starting the fall term before Labor Day, and that Provost Whitaker is exploring with deans and faculty the notion of changing the academic calendar to begin classes before Labor Day. He stated that the football
scheduling problem was created by the entry of Pennsylvania State University
into the Big Ten conference. Further discussion followed on the need for improved communication among the staff of all areas of the University in order to
prevent this type of problem from occurring in the future.
Regent Baker mentioned a letter Regents had received from housing staff
members that had raised concern about displays in certain residence halls in conjunction with Gay Pride Week. He asked for an examination of the issues raised
in this letter. President Duderstadt responded that this would be covered in an
upcoming Regents information session about student life.
Provost Whitaker observed that discussion of the academic calendar has
been underway for some time; the current calendar has been in place since 1962
and assumptions made at that time are no longer valid.
There being no further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion to increase the 1993-94 room rates by 4.6 percent for residence halls and 4.7 percent
for family housing apartments was approved unanimously.
1993 Henry Russel Award
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Jessy W. Grizzle, associate professor
of electrical engineering and computer science, and John C. Mitani, assistant professor of anthropology, as recipients of the Henry Russel Award for 1993.
Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants and Contracts
Vice President Kelly submitted a report on implementation of the Regents'
Policy on Research Grants and Contracts for fiscal year 1992.
Changes in Bylaws, Rules, and Regulations of the Medical Staff
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved changes in the Medical Staff Bylaws, Rules, and Regulation as recommended by the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board.


253




February Meeting, 1993


May 1993 Regents' Meeting
The Regents unanimously approved a change in the date of the May 1993
Regents' Meeting from May 20-21 to May 6-7.
Medical Staff Appointments
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, and on the recommendation of the University Hospitals Executive Board, the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to the medical staff.
Michigan Mandate Resolution
Regent Varner observed that a major portion the January meeting had been
devoted to a discussion of the Michigan Mandate, and moved approval of the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend the significant progress that has been made over the past five years toward achieving the goals of the Michigan Mandate. The Regents give this critical
effort their wholehearted support and encouragement, while at the same
time recognizing that much work remains to be done.
We, the Regents of the University of Michigan, therefore, pledge to
work diligently with the president and the rest of the University community to fulfill the vision of the Michigan Mandate in the years to come
Regent McFee seconded the motion, noting that it is very important for the
Regents to convey that they recognize the challenge involved in implementing
the Michigan Mandate and achieving a multicultural society.
Regents McGowan and Brown also expressed their support for the Michigan
Mandate and commended the president and officers for their leadership in putting it forth.
Regent Baker noted that while he supported the mandate, particularly the
part expanding opportunities for African-Americans, women, and others, he had
substantial disagreements with certain aspects of both the motion and the Mandate. He said that he intended to criticize both at appropriate times in the future,
and was not bound to unlimited support of either the motion or the program.
Further discussion ensued on the challenges posed by the Michigan Mandate. Regent Power observed that the change in the board's meeting format, with
the first day set aside for in-depth discussion of issues, will have a positive effect
on policy formulation.
Regent Baker stated that the resolution was premature. Regent Deitch responded that there can always be debates on tactics and implementation, but
that it was important to support the goal of the Mandate. Regent Waters stated


254




February Meeting, 1993


that he supports the Mandate and the efforts of the president, and pointed out
that actions speak louder than words.
Regent Baker reiterated that he did not want to be on record as supporting
every aspect of the Michigan Mandate. Following further discussion, Regent Baker attempted to read the letter from housing administrators that he had referred
to earlier. President Duderstadt and Regent Brown objected, stating that the letter was a different issue. Regent Baker responded that he disagreed, and that he
would read the letter at a future meeting.
The vote was then taken on the Michigan Mandate resolution and the motion was approved unanimously. Regent Baker stated that his vote was affirmative, but with the qualifications previously noted. He pointed out to the president
that not everyone in the campus community agreed with him on all issues, and
that he believed that most people on campus would not support the Mandate if a
vote were to be taken.
UM Hospitals Comparative Statistics Report
Vice President Womack introduced Mr. John Forsyth, executive director of
University of Michigan Hospitals. Mr. Forsyth gave a slide presentation that illustrated how UM Hospitals' financial position compares with that of other
teaching hospitals, AA-rated institutions, and all hospitals. He noted that in fiscal year 1992 the Hospitals were budgeted to lose about $7.8 million; instead they
gained $11.0 million. With prior year adjustments and non-operative income, the
Hospitals net income totalled $65,460,000, compared to a budget of about $14.0
million.
Mr. Forsyth reviewed figures on cost per case and displayed charts that illustrated comparative statistics regarding various measures of profitability, liquidity, capital structure, and patient activity. At the conclusion of his
presentation, Mr. Forsyth suggested that it would be worthwhile for the Board to
schedule an in-depth discussion on managed health care and the impact on the
Hospitals of changes taking place nationally in the area of health care. There followed some discussion about points raised in the report.
President Duderstadt then called on Provost Whitaker to comment about
the review of the Department of Population Planning and International Health
(PPIH).
Review of the Department of Population Planning and International
Health
Provost Whitaker noted that faculty and students in the Department of
Population Planning and International Health had demonstrated a great deal of
concern about the future of the department. He said that the dean had offered to
appear at Public Comments along with the faculty, but that he had counseled
against that. He pointed out that the procedures for program discontinuance, as
approved by the Regents in 1977 and amended in 1979 must be followed. Provost
Whitaker announced that the dean and executive committee of the School of
Public Health were going to reconsider placing a moratorium on admissions to


255




February Meeting, 1993


the Department of PPIH for the 1993 fall term, to ensure that the discussion will
be focused on issues of substance, rather than process.
Regent Baker stated that the board was sensitive to the concerns that have
been raised about this issue, both with regard to process and substance.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held March 11 and 12, 1993. Regents' transportation, accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of January 1993
totalled $1,693.04.
Rcard L. Kennedy, Secr    ry


256




MARCH MEETING, 1993


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 11, 1993
The Regents met at 1:40 PM. in the Music Room, Henry Ford Estate-Fair
Lane, at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Varner. Vice
President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors Jones and Renick. Associate Vice
President Holbrook attended the meeting for Provost Whitaker, Regents Baker
and Waters were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and thanked Chancellor
Renick for the opportunity to spend the day at the Dearborn Campus. He then
announced that Chancellor Jones would be stepping down from his position as
chancellor of UM-Flint on December 31, 1993, to resume his position on the faculty. He expressed the gratitude of the executive officers and Board of Regents
for the strong leadership Chancellor Jones has provided for the Flint campus.
There followed a round of applause.
Annual Report of Investments as of December 31, 1992
Vice President Womack introduced Ms. Elizabeth Hokada, associate investment officer, and Margaret Blakelock from Cambridge Associates, the University's investment consultant.
Ms. Hokada reported that the University had $1.7 billion in invested funds
as of December 31, 1992. The University Investment Pool (UIP), which is the investment pool for the working capital funds, totalled $883 million and yielded 6.2
percent. The University Endowment Fund (UEF), the next largest component of
the total invested funds, was valued at $684 million at the end of 1992, although
now it has surpassed $700 million. Regent Power pointed out that this is the
highest level the University Endowment Fund has ever reached.
Ms. Hokada pointed out that the long-term goal of the endowment fund is
to preserve the purchasing power of the endowment and of the distributions it
provides. Over the ten-year period ending December 31, 1992, 2.0 percentage
points per year in real value were added, with an average total return of 11.7 percent per year. The endowment fund returned 9.4 percent in 1992, compared with
the stock and bond indexes, which returned 7.6 percent. The domestic stock portfolio returned 13.6 percent and alternative fixed income investments returned
21.4 percent, while international stocks returned -6.5 percent.
The Donor Pooled Income Fund, an area of growth which has added 1.7
percent per year in ral value over the past ten years, returned 11.6 percent in
1992.


257




March Meeting, 1993


Ms. Hokada then turned to Ms. Blakelock to lead the discussion of investment strategy and investment performance.
Using a handout from Cambridge Associates, Ms. Blakelock gave an overview of the University's investment strategy, which is to have 70 percent of the
endowment in equities and 30 percent in fixed income investments. The strategy
includes diversification within the asset categories to reduce overall volatility and
increase return. Within the equity allocation, diversification has been accomplished by committing 10 percent to real estate, 5 percent to venture capital, and
5 percent to oil and gas investments. The domestic common stock portfolio is
hedged with the Common Fund Strategic Asset Allocation program.
Ms. Blakelock reviewed 1992 asset allocation and performance in more detail, and she and Vice President Womack responded to questions from the Regents. She then described the rationale and strategy for international equity
investing, and continued with a description of real estate investment vehicles and
strategies. In response to a question from Regent Power, Vice President Womack
described the difference between real estate investments and the University's
mortgage program for faculty and staff. This was followed by further discussion
about the status of the University's real estate investments.
Ms. Blakelock concluded her presentation by introducing the concept of an
energy hedge against future increases in natural gas prices. She described the
strategy options for such a hedge as long-term purchase agreements, purchase of
futures, and participation in a reserve acquisition program. Further discussion
ensued about the risks and benefits of participation in a reserve acquisition progranm
At the conclusion of the Report on Investments, the Regents turned to consideration of the regular business agenda
Minutes
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of February 18-19, 1993.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. Vice President Kelly
submitted reports on Projects Established-Research and Other Activities and
Summaries of a Selection of Current Research. On a motion by Regent Power,
seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents unanimously approved receipt of the reports.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report on Voluntary Support for the
month of February 1993. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent
Power, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the following gifts, with
thanks, and in accord with their terms and conditions:


258




March Meeting, 1993


AMOCO Chemicals Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Minority and Female Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering..................5............E5,000
AMOCO Corporation Research Center, Naperville, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering................................................................................................35,000
AMOCO Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts............................................................................................................... 13,576
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts................................................................................6,415
Allied-Signal, Inc., Southfield
for the Sam M. Wu Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering..................................... 5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and the College of Pharmacy...........................................................................   104,340
American Chemical Society, Princeton, New Jersey
for the College of Pharmacy........................................................7,500
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy........................................30,875
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................................................................ 12,500
American Suicide Foundation, New York, New York
for  research  in  the  M edical School...................................................................................................................................5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library Development Fund............................................................99,125
Vera and Clement Arrison Foundation, Williamsville, New York
for campaign support in the College of Engineering...........................................................................................20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 12,167
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan............................................................................22,397
Bangkok Bank Limited, Bangkok, Thailand
for the Paul W. McCracken Professorship in Business Economics, School of Business
A dm inistration.........................................................................................................................................................................30,000
Theodore and Mina Bargman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Joseph and Edythe Jackier Rare Book Room in the Law School Library........................25,000
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for  support  of the  M edical School........................................................................................................................................5,000
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
for the Bruce P. Bickner Scholarship in the Law School...............................................................................40,000
Maurice S. Binkow, Bloomfield Hills
175 shares of ADP common stock for the Maurice and Linda Binkow Scholarship in
the School of Music and for support of the Alumni Association, Law School, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the University Musical Society..........................................9,538
Biosym Technologies, Inc., San Diego, California
for  support in  the  College  of Engineering................................................................................................................21,375
Briarwood Associates, Ann Arbor
for the Fitness Over 50 Program in the Division of Kinesiology and for the Golf
Classic Benefit in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital..........................................................................................7,500
Edmund B. Brownell, Flint
300 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock for research, Medical School... 10,950
Butler & Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................................................................................... 15,000
Irene Linda Butler Estate
for the Dr. and Mrs. William J. Butler Funds in the Medical School and for the
President's  Fund.............................................................................................................................................................  59,197
Michael C. Carey, Chicago, Illinois
1,500 shares of Eksportfinans A/S Nikkei Put Warrents for gifts pending designation
in the Campaign for Michigan............................................................................................................................23,063
Shirley S. Chang Trust, Flint
for the Sam M. Wu Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................10,000
Chevrolet-Pontiac-Canada Group, General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Chevrolet Collegiate Scholarship Program.......................................................................................6,000
Christmas Celebration, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the  C. S. M ott Children's  Hospital.......................................................................................................................5,000
Chrysler Corporation, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering...........................................................................................................223,200


259




March Meeting, 1993


Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for employee matching gifts............................................15,650
Don R. Conlan, South Pasadena, California
for the Paul W. McCracken Professorship in the School of Business Administration....... 10,000
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.............................................. 13,191
Digital Equipment Corporation, Shrewsbury, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering.............. 2,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for minority and female scholarships in the College of Engineering....................1.....,105
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for employee matching gifts _............................................. 0,100
Gregory G. Floridis Trust
for support of the Medical School _......................_...........10,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support of the University of Michigan-Dearborn and for employee matching gifts..111,438
Bruce Frankel, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration....................................,000
Ben Franklin Properties, Inc., North Miami Beach, Florida
for the Thomas F. Daly Basketball Scholarship in the Department of Athletics................... 12,00
Dean A. Friedman, Franklin
267 shares of Catalina Marketing Corporation common stock for golf course
restoration  in  the Department of Athletics................................................................................................10,179
Ronald J. Friedsam, Cincinnati, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration.......................................................,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for the Industrial Partners of Computer Science Program, College of Engineering.......35,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and
Environment and the College of Engineering....................................................................................150,000
Gerondelis Foundation, Inc., Lynn, Massachusetts
for graduate fellowships and scholarships in the School of Dentistry........................................6,000
Charlotte Geyer Foundation, Buffalo, New York
for research in the Medical School.............................................................99,718
Otto G. Graf Trust
for the Otto Graf Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Sarah W. and Otto Graf Acquisitions Fund in the Museum of Art............................ 15,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for psychology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................82,977
Grundy Industries, Inc., Joliet, Illinois
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics....................................................,000
Bernard L. Hartman, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Medical School......................................................................................25,000
James & Lynelle Holden Fund, Troy
for the James S. and Lynelle A. Holden Neonatal Research Laboratories in the
M edical School._.................................................................................................................300,000
Stanley Imerman Memorial Foundation, Southfield
for the Joseph and Edythe Jackier Rare Book Room in the Law School Library.............2......2,000
Jackier Family Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Welfare Federation, Detroit
for the Joseph and Edythe Jackier Rare Book Room in the Law School Library..................... 10,000
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
for the Max Kade German House in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........6,000
William R. Kelly, Troy
for the School of Business Administration............................................................ 12,068
Edythe S. Kennedy Trust
for the Donald B. Kennedy Student Aid Fund in the College of Engineering................256,000
Daniel F. Kolb, New York, New York
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School.........................20,000
Alan D. Krisch, Ann Arbor
for the Faculty Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................,000
Richard P. Kughn, Dearborn
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.................................................25,000
Leeman Labs, Inc., Lowell, Massachusetts
for laser spectrometry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............5,800
Lockheed Missiles & Space Company, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for minority and female scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering....17,000


260




March Meeting, 1993


Loews Foundation, New York, New York
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.......................................................10,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 17,00
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....31,250
Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School......................................55,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..............630,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for the Merck Post Doctoral Fellowship in the Medical School and for support in
the College of Pharmacy __.._..._.......................................27,500
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..................................................75,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................................10,063
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.....................................9,465
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, Columbus, Ohio
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration..................5,000
Stuart B. Padnos, Holland
for  support in  the  M edical School..................................................................................................................................10,000
Marjorie McKeown Pascoe Estate
for student loans in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 1...... 15,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.......................................60,000
Radiological Society of North America, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................................................,000...................... 5,000
Richard Rogel Trust, West Bloomfield
for the Sports Service Building and other support in the Department of Athletics,
the Schools of Business Administration and Music, and the Richard Rogel Scholarship.....56,000
John P. Schaefer, Tucson, Arizona
for the Helen Schwarz Schaefer Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.7,500
Hilma R. Schwer, Sandusky, Ohio
for the President's Fund, in memory of Wilbert G. Schwer.................................................................,000
Simmons Foundation, Ann Arbor
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics..........................................................5,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School......................................................................................................... 30,855
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration.................................7,500
Helmut F. Stem, Ann Arbor
for the Dean William Haber Scholarship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......20,000
Helmut Stern Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Helmut Stern Fund in the Museum of Art, the Humanities Institute in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Neil Staebler Fund in the Institute
for Public Policy Studies, and for support of the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies __...................................................................................55,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....20,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern Masonic
Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Funds in the Medical School........................................................................34,384
TG Technical Center (U.SA.) Corporation, Madison Heights
for computational mechanics research in the College of Engineering....................   19,600
Taisho Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human genetics research in the Medical School......................................................40000
Arthur Thurnau Charitable Trust
for the Arthur Thurnau Funds.........................................................180,645
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................................ 50,000
Twin Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for history support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................15,000


261




March Meeting, 1993


USG Corporation, Libertyville, Illinois
for research  in the College of Engineering.......................................................................   1,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School........................................................................... 12,500
Amnuay Viravan, Bangkok, Thailand
for the Paul W. McCracken Professorship in the School of Business Administration............70,000
Daniel W. Vittum, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
400 shares of Great Lakes Chemical Company common stock for the Law School............. 27,600
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northbrook, Illinois
for the Anita Miller Muir Scholarship......................10,000
Mark B. Wallner Foundation, Incline Village, Nevada
for research in the Medical School __............................................ 12,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the John C. Seeley Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering and for
employee matching gifts _.____....................................20,900
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for chronic diseases research in the School of Public Health.__........................... 83,050
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................................... 10,000
Frank T. and Barbara E. Westover, Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for the Frank 0. and Doris B. Westover Scholarship and the Elizabeth V. and
Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship, School of Business Administration........................................ 10,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Elizabeth V. and Charles W. Gauss II Scholarship, School of Business
Administration..................................................................................................15,000
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Great Neck, New York
for unrestricted support of the Department of Athletics.......................................................  20,000
John R. Worthington, Washington, D. C.
250 shares of MCI Communications Corporation common stock for capital support
of the  Law   School........................................................................................................................................10,422
Xerox Corporation, Rochester, New York
for the Macromolecular Research Center......................................................................................... 6,000
Roger Zatkoff Company, Farmington Hills
for support in the Division of Kinesiology and for scholarships in the Department
of Athletics............................................................................................................ 10,00
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Adaptive Wheel Chairs, Inc., Southfield
Jay GS 14 wheelchair components, with accessories, for the Department of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation/Physical Therapy
Gene Alloway, Ann Arbor
computer software and five volumes of Great Events from History II: Science and Technology
Series for the University Library
Charles C. and Dorothy Dybvig, Ann Arbor
Berthold Schiwetz's "Rampant Unicorn," cast bronze on stone base, through the Museum of
Art, for the Michigan League Courtyard
Scott Farquar, Commerce Township
Action Tiger and Junior wheelchairs, two Avanti wheelchairs, and a Youthmobile 9000 for the
Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation/Mott Physical Therapy
Jay Medical, Ltd., Boulder, Colorado
Jay wheelchair components for the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation/
Physical Therapy
Clifford L. Kiehn, New Bern, North Carolina
thirty-four antiquarian medical and scientific books for the Historical Center for the Health
Sciences
Thomas S. and Marjorie E. Monaghan, Ann Arbor
a collection of sixty-four Chinese ceramics from the Yangshao Culture and the Han, Liao, Ming,
Sung, Southern Sung, Yuan, etc., Dynasties for the Museum of Art
Tracy Primich, Chelsea
computer software, Active Library on Corrosion, for the University Library/Engineering
Library


262




March Meeting, 1993


Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following donors:
John M. Cahill, Northville              Barbara A. Lanese, Ypsilanti
Mark R. DeCamp, Ann Arbor               Thomas W. Porter, Grosse Pointe Shores
Mavis F. Edwards, Flint                 Nancy Spilker, Dearborn
Murray J. Feiwell, Indianapolis, Indiana  Peter D. Ward, Ann Arbor
Robert Z. Feldstein, Birmingham         Robert Ziaja, Shelby Township
Albert L. Goldberg, Ann Arbor
Personnel Actions
Associate Vice President Holbrook noted the appointment of Lester P.
Monts as vice provost for academic and multicultural affairs and professor of music, with tenure. On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McFee, the
Regents approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
John F. Cherry, Ph.D., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek
Charles J. C. Daval, M.Mus., Associate Professor of Music (Trumpet)
Lester P. Monts, Ph.D., Professor of Music, with tenure, and Vice Provost for Academic and
Multultltural Affairs, five-year term, July 1, 1993
Regina Morantz-Sanchez, Ph.D., Professor of History
George J. Sanchez, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and American Culture
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective March 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
William R. Anderson, Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Director of the Herbarium,
reappointed Director of the Herbarium, three-year term, July 1, 1993
Paul C. Boylan, Professor of Music, with tenure, and Dean, School of Music, reappointed Dean,
School of Music, five-year term, July 1 1994
Martin G. Gold, Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Research Scientist, Institute for Social
Research, reappointed to active status, one-year term
John A Jacquez, Professor Emeritus of Physiology and Professor Emeritus of Biostatistics,
reappointed to active status, one-year term
JOINT APPOINTMENT OR TRANSFER OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSOR AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1993
Raymond C. Kelly, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, also appointed Acting Chair,
Department of Anthropology, ten-month term


263




March Meeting, 1993


The following committee appointments were approved:
Committee on Honorary Degees
Steve Stark, student representative, two-year term ending December 31, 1994, vice Alan
Woronoff, term expired
Karen DeGannes, student representative, two-year term ending December 31, 1994, vice Shira
Goodman, term expired
University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
Robert M. Stern, one and one-half-year term ending August 1, 1994, vice John Kingdon, resigned
UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Roger E. Winkelman, fifteen-month term ending June 30, 1994, vice Nancy Badore, resigned
Retroactive leave of absence. The Regents approved a retroactive personal leave of absence, without salary, for Eddie L. Boyd, associate professor of
pharmacy, for the period July 1, 1991 through June 30, 1993.
Arthur F. Thurnau Professorships. The Regents approved the following
appointments to Arthur F. Thurnau Professorships, all effective July 1, 1993,
through June 30, 1996: Richard I. Ford, professor of anthropology; Richard G.
Lawton, professor of chemistry; Terrence J. McDonald, professor of history; Kim
L. Scheppele, associate professor of political science and public policy; James C.
G. Walker, professor of atmospheric, oceanic, and space sciences and professor of
geological sciences; and Robert A Weisbuch, professor of English language and
literature and chair, Department of English Language and Literature.
Regent Power asked to receive some information about Arthur Thurau.
G. Lawton and Louise G. Johnson Professorship of Engineering.
The Regents approved the establishment of the G. Lawton and Louise G. Johnson Professorship of Engineering, effective April 1, 1993.
R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorship of Engineering. The
Regents approved the establishment of the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorship of Engineering, effective April 1, 1993.
Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors The Regents approved
the appointment of Matina Souretis Homer as the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors for the winter term 1993.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1993, unless othenvise indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Silvia G. Althoen, Laurea, Lecturer I in Italian
Stefania Conversano, Translator, Lecturer I in Italian
Denise M. Lee, B.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics
Eve G. Madsen, M.S., Lecturer I in Biology


264




March Meeting, 1993


Medical School
Georgiana M. Sanders, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine and Clinical Instructor
II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Ellen M. Zimmermann, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, February 1, 1993
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Medical School
Jonathan A Sugar, from Lecturer in Psychiatry and Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases to Clinical Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry and Clinical Assistant Professor II
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, January 1,1993
School of Natural Resores and Environment
Terry L. Root, from Assistant Professor of Natural Resources to Assistant Professor of Natural
Resources and Environment, School of Natural Resources and Environment, and Assistant
Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 1992
UM-Flint CoUege of Arts and Sciences
Lois L. Alexander, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Music, January 1, 1993
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Gerhard Olving, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
ColUee of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Madhav Deshpande, Professor of Sanskrit, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1993
Elliott K Ginsburg, Associate Professor of Jewish Thought, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31,1993
John M. Graham, Assistant Professor of French, extended sick leave, January 22-May 31,1993
M. Kent Jennings, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -May 14, 1993
Alan D. Krisch Professor of Physics, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1993
John Y. Kuwada, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Robert T. Lenaghan, Professor of English, with tenure, extended sick leave, October 26 -December 31, 1992
Victor B. Lieberman, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Steven J. Rosenstone, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -June 30, 1993
J. Graham Smith, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Bernardus A van der Pluijm, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
Martin K. Whyte, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, Intergovernmental leave, January 1 -December 31, 1993
Ernest P. Young, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,1993
Medical School
A. Lorris Betz, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Professor of
Surgery, without tenure, and Professor of Pediatrics, without tenure, sabbatical leave,
April 1-Setptember 30, 1993


265




March Meeting, 1993


James H. Ellis, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Surgery,
without tenure, sabbatical leave, February 1-July 31, 1993
Allen S. Lichter, Professor of Radiation Therapy, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Radiation Oncology, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1993
Randolph M. Nesse, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -June 30, 1993
School of Nursing
Marilyn J. Svejda, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1993
Ann L. Whall, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
School of Social Work
Ruth E. Dunkle, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1993
UM-Dearborn School of Enineering
A. Adnan Aswad, Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30,1993
CHANGE TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Colege of Engineering
Costas Kravaris, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1993, and January 1-May 31, 1994 (previously reported as January 1 -May 31, 1993)
POSTPONEMENT OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Robert S. Savit, Professor of Physics, with tenure, postponement of sabbatical leave (previously
reported as January 1-May 31, 1993)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Dentistry
John P. Fox, Lecturer in Dentistry, January 31, 1993
Coege of Literature Science, and the Arts
Laura J. Gold, Lecturer in Psychology, April 30, 1992
Peter O. Sandusky, Lecturer I in Chemistry, December 31, 1992
Medical School
Craig B. Thompson, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, December 31, 1992
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoir:


266




March Meeting, 1993


Martin G. Gold, professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and research scientist in the Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute for Social Research, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1992.
Professor Gold received his AB. degree from Dartmouth College in 1953
and his M.A and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1955 and
1962, respectively. From 1953-61, he served as research assistant, teaching fellow, and then instructor in the Department of Psychology; he was appointed
study director at the Research Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for
Social Research (ISR) in 1961. From 1962-65, he served as the training and program director at the University of Michigan Fresh Air Camp, assistant program
director at the Research Center for Group Dynamics, and assistant professor in
the Department of Psychology. He was promoted to program director (later
changed to research scientist) at ISR in 1965, associate professor of psychology in
1968, and professor in 1979.
Professor Gold made important scientific contributions to the scholarship
on adolescence, and in particular, on delinquency among adolescents. His national epidemiological studies establishing the incidence and prevalence of delinquency and documenting that delinquency cuts across social class groups are classics
in the field. Professor Gold's research on prevention and treatment of delinquency is also widely respected for its methodological and theoretical sophistication
and practical import.
In pursuing the social and cultural experiences that prevent delinquent behaviors, Professor Gold has noted the significance of schools. His work details the
influence and especially the critical impact of integrating less successful students
into school life. This work has affected the school reform movement as well as
the correctional system's treatment of delinquents.
Professor Gold has taught the core courses in social psychology and specialized seminars in adolescence and in delinquency. He was a devoted teacher, research mentor, and colleague in both the Department of Psychology and the
Institute for Social Research.
The Regents now salute this distinguished researcher and teacher for his
dedicated service by naming Martin G. Gold Professor Emeritus of Psychology.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Audit Report: University of Michigan Donor Pooled Fund for Years
Ended December 31, 1992 and 1991
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
voted unanimously to accept the audit report for the Donor Pooled Income Fund
for the years ended December 31, 1992 and 1991.
Provost Whitaker arrived at the meeting at this point (2:45 PM.).


267




March Meeting, 1993


Appointment of Auditors for 1992-93
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Ernst & Young as auditors for
1992-93.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited    Financial Report
of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of
Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1992
The Regents received supplemental information to the certified audited financial report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan for the year ended June 30, 1992.
Sugar Island, Chippewa County Property
Regent McFee moved, Regent McGowan seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved granting to Kenneth Fox, his heirs, successors, and assigns, a
30-foot-wide easement along the southern boundary of the E /2 of the SE V4, Section 5, T47N, R2E, Sugar Island for a price of $500.
North Campus Roadway Improvement Program
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding immediately with Phase I of the North Campus roadway improvement program and with future phases as funding can be
identified.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Aero Sport, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, all six Regents
present unanimously approved the University's entering into an agreement with
Aero Sport, Inc. Because one of the shareholders in Aero Sport, Dr. Victor Katch,
is also a University employee, this agreement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Aero Sport, Inc.
2.  The agreement will provide reimbursement for 25 hours of use of University facilities, various supplies, computer time, and indirect cost at 32.5 percent. Dr.
Katch's salary will be cost-shared from his discretionary funds. The agreement
will be consistent with standard University research policies.
3.  Dr. Katch's stock ownership is his sole pecuniary interest in this project. He will
not be compensated outside of his University salary for these services.
Regental and Executive Officer Conflict of Interest Policy
Vice President Kennedy noted that the Regents had requested that the general counsel prepare a draft Regental and Executive Officer Conflict of Interest
Policy. Upon approval by the Regents, the policy would be incorporated into the


268




March Meeting, 1993


Regents' Bylaws, after following the procedure for amending Regents' Bylaws.
He called on General Counsel Elsa Cole to present the proposed policy.
Ms. Cole noted that the proposed policy is consistent with those in place at
other institutions, and with the model policy of the Association of Governing
Boards of Universities and Colleges. She reviewed specific points in the policy
and responded to questions.
Regent Power observed that this policy sets out an affirmative duty on the
part of the Regents or executive officers to disclose matters that might be considered conflicts. In response to a question from Regent Power, Ms. Cole stated that
this policy provides a much clearer guideline than state law about when a conflict
exists. This policy would supplement and clarify the state policy, and would not
be in conflict with it. Regent Power suggested that the University's policy should
state that it goes beyond current state statute and is controlling.
It was decided to delay consideration of the policy until Regent Power's suggestions had been incorporated.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus Bylaws
Chancellor Renick noted that revisions were the result of a two-year process
involving broad discussion on the Dearborn campus. In response to a question
from Regent Power, Professor John Devlin described the process that had been
undertaken by various faculty committees and policy-making bodies over a twoyear period that had resulted in the proposed revisions. On a motion by Regent
McGowan, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents unanimously approved revisions to the University of Michigan-Dearborn campus bylaws.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Deitch made the following motion:
Pursuant to Sections 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on March 11, 1993, in the Music Room, Henry Ford
Estate-Fair Lane, at 3:15 PlM., for the purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific
pending litigation, and for considering material exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act. Such
exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's legal
counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
The Regents met in executive session from 3:15 PM. to 4:00 P.M., at which
time they reconvened for Public Comments.


269




March Meeting, 1993


Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated: Tom Stroup, student at UM-Dearbor, on the high cost of tuition; and
Donald L. Knapp, Jr., student at UM-Dearborn, on tuition and student rights.
The following morning at 9:15AM. they heard comments from Andzrej Kulczycki
and Abigail Hunter, students, on the moratorium status of the Department of
Population Planning and International Health.
Then, there being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on April 15 and 16, 1993. Regents transportation, accommodation, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of February 1993 totalled
$6,008.69.
Richard L. enned, Sec    ry


270




APRIL MEETING, 1993
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 15, 1993
The Regents met at 1:15 P.M. in Mosher-Jordan Residence Hall and heard
presentations about student life issues. Present were President Duderstadt and
Regents Baker, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Varner. Provost Whitaker,
Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Hartford,
Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors Renick and Jones. Regents Brown and Waters were absent.
Public Comments
At 4:00 P.M. the Regents reassembled in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Deitch made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by
1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on
Thursday, April 15, 1993, in the Regents' Room, immediately following
the Public Comments session, for the purpose of consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific
pending litigation.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents then heard comments from Todd Barker and Tom Dietsch,
students, on the possible sale of University-owned properties used for research
purposes by the School of Natural Resources and Environment.
Following Public Comments, the Regents went to the Regents' Room at
4:30 P.M. to meet in closed session.
Friday, April 16, 1993
The Regents met at 9:15 AM. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, and Varner.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors
Renick and Jones. Regents Brown and Waters were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Vice President Hartford, who introduced the newly elected president of the Michigan
Student Assembly, Craig Greenberg.


271




April Meeting, 1993


Master of Engineering Degree Program in College of Engineering
Provost Whitaker reported that this new degree program is intended to be a
professional degree in engineering, with many of the courses being offered in the
late afternoon or evening to serve people who work during the day. It would be
available to all College of Engineering departments and programs that wish to
develop and award such a degree.
Regent Baker moved approval of the new degree program, "Master of Engineering," to be offered in the College of Engineering. Regent Varner seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Status of State Budget Request
Provost Whitaker reported that the governor had proposed no increase in
the budget for the coming year, and that University personnel would be attending a Senate Higher Education Appropriations Committee hearing on May 14. In
response to a question from President Duderstadt, Vice President Kennedy reported that the legislature was receiving the governor's request for a two-year
budget hesitatingly.
Provost Whitaker noted that units in the University had been asked to reduce expenditures by two percent in order to fund two percent of the salary program for 1993-94. Vice President Kennedy responded to questions from Regent
Baker about the capital outlay plan.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of March 11-12, 1993.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports of Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations, and Noncompetitive
Purchases over $2,000. He noted that in the future, the Report of Investment
Transactions would be replaced with a more complete Monthly Report of Invested Funds, and commented on the state of the University's investments as
shown in the report. He also commented on a specific expenditure in the Report
on Noncompetitive Purchases, noting that efforts have been made to decrease
the number of these expenditures in recent years.
Regarding the Litigation Report, Regent Baker asked a question about an
issue that had been raised in a SACUA meeting on March 8, 1993, regarding a request that had been made under the Freedom of Information Act for a course syllabus. Mr. Walter Harrison, executive director of university relations, stated he
would look into the matter.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report on Voluntary Support for the
month of March 1993. On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent


272




April Meeting, 1993


Deitch, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the following gifts, with
thanks, and in accord with their terms and conditions:
Aeroquip, Maumee, Ohio
for the Global Business Partnership Faculty Fund, School of Business Administration...... 12,000
Randolph J. and Judith A. Agley Foundation, Detroit
for the Randolph J. Agley Graduate Scholarship, School of Business Administration.......26,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Medical
School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of Gerontology..........................................214,334
American Federation for Aging Research, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Gerontology...........................................12,500
American Gastroenterological Association, Thorofare, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School _............................ _....  2000
American Home Products Corporation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts -... .-..................................................5....,025
American Paralysis Association, Short Hills, New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts -.....................................18,150
Anonymous Donor
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library Development Fund............................... 101,200
Aplastic Anemia Foundation of American, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School.....................................6,20
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....19,333
Association of American Railroads, Washington, D.C.
for the Affiliates Program  in the College of Engineering..........................................................................20,000
Esther Barnard Estate
for the School of Music............................................................................................................  165,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship...........................................................  40,232
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Living Writers Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........10,000
Borman's, Inc., Southfield
a State of Israel Bond for capital support in the School of Business Administration...........39,008
Asea Brown Boveri, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for the School of Business Administration and the College of Engineering............................. 10,000
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration.........................................11,000
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
115 shares of General Electric Corporation for the Law School and the Department
of Athletics........... 10,084
Cancer Research Institute, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........._............................................................... 9, 833
Kathryn L. Carl Estate
for the Kathryn L. Carl Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Flint............................................8,275
Citizens Insurance Company of America, Howell
for the Risk Management Professorship and other support in the School of Business
Administration...................................................... 20,260
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for employee matching  gifts s.......................................................................................................5..........8,5 40
Cummins Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, Indiana
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration............................................5,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...................................................................................32,92
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for research and other support in the College of Engineering............... -..25,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School........................._._- _26,250
A. Richard Diebold, Jr., Tucson, Arizona
for the Middle English Dictionary Program.......o...................................-.10,000
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration..................................,000
Dow Chemical U.S.A., Midland
for neurobiology and aging research in the School of Public Health and for
employee matching gifts.............................................101,311


273




April Meeting, 1993


Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for employee matching gifts......................................6,683
Albert D. Early, Sarasota, Florida
1,000 shares of Chemical New York Corporation, 1,200 shares of Citicorp common
stocks and cash gift of $100,000 for the Albert D. and Virginia B. Early Unitrust for
the ultimate benefit of a Visiting Professorship in Tax Law.................................................172,92
Frederick L. Feldkamp, Bloomfield Hills
for the Research Seminar in Quantitative Economics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and the C.A.M.P. Fund in the Alumni Association......................................6,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Education and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.^............................ _............_..__..........................169,754
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................20,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support of the Colleges of Engineering and Literature,
Science, and the Arts and for the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................340,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the School of Business Administration, the College of Engineering,
the University of Michigan Hospital, and the University Musical Society.............................130,000
Walter & Josephine Ford Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn................1........1,000
Harry L. Freeman, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Sumner and Laura Foster Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the   Arts............................................................................................................................................................ 5,000
Lazar J. Greenfield, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Boston Scientific Corporation common stock for research
in the Medical School and scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................10,375
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research  in  the Medical School.................................................................................................  43,967
James J. Harbaugh, Deerfield, Illinois
143 shares of Superior Industries International common stock for research in the
M edical School.............................................................................................................5,175
John A. Harris, Chevy Chase, Maryland
400 shares of Robert Half International common stock for the School of Business
Administration, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Department
of Athletics............................................................................................................6,300
Cecile P. Hitchcock Trust
for the Margaret Ayers Host Fellowship for Graduate Women in the Alumni Association..5,750
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for Endowment in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...................... 26,280
James W. Hyde, Paris, Kentucky
for the Class of 1904 Scholarship in the Law School...........................................................,000
Hyundai America Technical Center, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Korean Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................5,000
IBM Canada, Ltd., Markham, Ontario
for the Program in Understanding Fellowships in the College of Engineering...............................5,000
Johnson Controls Automotive Systems Group, Plymouth
for the M useum   of Art...................................................................................................5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Institute for Social Research and for employee matching gifts.................20,256
Miner S. and Mary A. Keeler Fund, Grand Rapids
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................20,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research  in the School of Public Health........................................................................... 96,447
James M. Lawler Estate
2,152 shares of utility common stocks for the Abigail Marie Shaw Lawler Student
Aid Fund in the Alumni Association........................................73,249
Life Sciences Research Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School..................................................8,750
Life Trends, Inc., Vero Beach, Florida
for research in the Institute for Social Research................................... 5.....................................9,176
Little Family Foundation Rhode Island Hospital National Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for the Little Family Foundation Fellowships in the School of Business Administration.... 10,000
George H. Lowrey, Sun City West, Arizona
490 shares of Weis Markets and 23 shares of Merck & Company common stocks for
the Medical School and the Center for the Education of Women.........................................13,662


274




April Meeting, 1993


Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship, College of Architecture and Urban Planning................7,500
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education...............................................................   150,000
Donald H. Malloure, Birmingham
1,000 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock for the Donald and Lucille Malloure Fund
and other support in the College of Engineering and for scholarships in the
Department of Athletics._..................66,188
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
27,000 shares of Upjohn Company common stock for the Mary Upjohn Meader
Fund in the Medical School _......... 769,600
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for campaign and other support, the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for the
MBA Peace Corps in the School of Business Administration._................................................72,390
Jack Moore Trust
for the Jack and Marjorie Winch Moore Scholarship in the Medical School.............................. 813,000
Motorola, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona
for research in the College of Engineering._.........................................................5,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and the Medical School..53,078
Samuel I. Newhouse Foundation, New York, New York
for the J. Robert F. Swanson Fund in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning........5,000
Charles F. Niemeth, New York, New York
for capital support in  the  Law   School.....................................................................................................................10,000
Bernice C. Pagacz Estate
for scholarships in the Medical School....................................................................................................36,176
John E. Pearson, Saline
for the  University  M usical Society..........................................................................................................7,500
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for fellowships in  the Medical School.....................................................................................................7,500
Duncan O. Poth, San Antonio, Texas
for the Dermatology Alumni Campaign in the Medical School...................................................................5,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for workshop and continuing education support in the School of Dentistry......................101,330
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                       -...............................................8,500
Real Estate Financial Corporation, Birmingham
for the William Davidson Professorship in the School of Business Administration.............40,000
Rockwell International, El Segundo, California
for employee matching gifts............................       12,685
Lester Rosenblatt, New York, New York
four state of New York bonds for the Lester Rosenblatt Charitable Remainder
Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering.......................................101,691
Harold Rosenn, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania
500 shares of Mid-Atlantic Corporation common stock for unrestricted support of
the Law School...............................................................10,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............28,840
Regina R. Serafin Trust
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Fund....................................................18,977
Irene R. Shreve Estate
for gerontological studies in the Medical School..............................................................50,000
Allan F. and Alene M. Smith, Ann Arbor
100 shares each of Tecumseh Products Class A and Class B common stocks and 60
shares of Banc One Corporation common stock for the Allan F. and Alene M. Smith
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Allan F. and Alene M.
Smith Professorship in the Law School, the William and Claribel Halstead
Scholarship in the School of Music, and the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund..................15,731
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration...........................7,500
Student Alumni Council, Ann Arbor
for the Student Alumni Council Scholarships in the Alumni Association............................20,984
Charles V. Thornton III, Rolling Hills, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School....._.......................................................5,000


275




April Meeting, 1993


Time, Inc., New York, New York
for Time fellowships in the School of Business Administration and for research in
the  M edical School....................................................................................................................................................................... 00
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Matilda Towsley Founding Endowment and for the Center for the
E ducation    of W om en...............................................................................................................................................5,000
Transitions Research Corporation, Danbury, Connecticut
for research in the College of Engineering............................................................................................7,800
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program     in the School of Business Administration and for the
Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering..................................................................30,000
Union Pacific Corporation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................11,432
Union Pacific Foundation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for student aid in the School of Business Administration.................................................................................5,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, New York, New York
for  research   in  the  M edical School..................................................................................................................................... 12,500
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for the Ann Arbor University of Michigan Club Scholarship Fund............................................................6,000
Harold & Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for  student  aid   in   the  School of Education..................................................................................................................50,000
Richard H. Vander Kam Estate
for research and other support in the Medical School...................................................................................... 84,217
David N. Wakely, Clearwater, Florida
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
an d   th e   A rts...........................................................................................................................................................................................5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Medical School, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, the Museum of Art, and the University Musical Society........................91,400
Peter M. Wege, East Grand Rapids
for the School of Natural Resources and Environment.......................................................................................5,000
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................................................10,800
Wetlands Research, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for water research in the College of Engineering..................................................................................................20,000
Josef H. Wiehr, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Atlantic Richfield Company common stock for Ice Hockey support
in   the   D epartm ent  of Athletics.............................................................................................................................................11,819
Jean L. Williams, Grosse Pointe Farms
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................5,700
R. J. Williams, Bloomfield Hills
for the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorship in the College of Engineering..............50,000
William F. Wolff III, New York, New York
1,250 shares of Dr. Pepper/Seven-Up Company for the Phyllis and William Wolff
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Art..................................................................................20,702
Frank Zimmerman, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................................................5,500
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
James G. Blackington, Englewood, Colorado
a sterling silver centerpiece bowl and a silver fork, both by Gorman Silver (1902) for the
University of Michigan-Flint Library
Donald J. and Marlene Salberg, Ann Arbor
an English Grandfather clock, ca. 1810 for the Clements Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value, were received from the following donors:
Polly W. Bredt, Portola Valley, CA                      Alex Neshkes, Southfield
William L. Cash, Jr., Ann Arbor                         Bradford Perkins, Ypsilanti
Paul N. Courant, Ann Arbor                              Patricia Smith, Clinton
Walton M. Hancock, Ann Arbor                            Christine M. Waters, New Hudson
Arthur E. Lokkins, Flint                                Marina Whitman, Ann Arbor
Marjorie McClellan, Ann Arbor


276




April Meeting, 1993


Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Leone Buyse, M.Mus., Professor of Music (Flute)
David K. Cohen, Ph.D., John Dewey Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education,
and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, Institute of Public Policy Studies
Robert J. Feigal, D.D.S., Professor of Dentistry, July 1, 1993
Magdalene Lampert, Ed.D., Professor of Education
Russell J. Lundholm, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Accounting
Jerome O. Nriagu, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Environmental Chemistry
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Marvin A Brandwin, Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology in the Department of
Psychiatry, reappointed to active status, one-year term, August 1, 1992
Dee W. Edington, Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, and Director, Division of Kinesiology,
reappointed Director, Division of Kinesiology, five-year term, July 1, 1993
Myron E. Wegman, Dean Emeritus, John G. Searle Professor Emeritus of Public Health, and
Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to active status,
four-month term, May 1, 1993
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Linda H. Gillum, from Assistant Director of Faculty Affairs, Medical School, to Assistant Dean
for Student Programs, Medical School, April 15, 1993
L. Rowell Huesmann, Professor of Communication, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, also appointed Acting Chair, Department of Communication, one-year
term, September 1, 1993
Srinika D. Jayaratne, from Professor of Social Work, with tenure and Assistant Dean for
Research, School of Social Work, to Professor of Social Work, with tenure, and Associate
Dean, School of Social Work, four-year term, July 15, 1993
Jeffery M. Paige, from Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Acting Director, Center for
Research on Social Organization, to Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Director,
Center for Research on Social Organization, three-year term, July 1, 1992
Andrew T. Turrisi III, Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, without tenure, also appointed
Acting Chair, Department of Radiation Oncology, five-month term, January 1, 1993
The following committee appointments were approved:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Michael Marletta, eight-month term ending April 1, 1994, vice Rowena Matthews, on leave


277




April Meeting, 1993


William Russell Kelly Professorship in Business Administration.
The Regents were informed of a correction in the source of the funds for the
previously approved William Russell Kelly Professorship in Business Administration.
Paul G. Goebel Professor of Engineering The Regents approved the
appointment of Yoram Koren as the Paul G. Goebel Professor of Engineering,
for a five-year term effective September 1, 1993.
R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professor of Engineering. The Regents approved the appointment of Fawwaz T. Ulaby as the R. Jamison and
Betty Williams Professor of Engineering, for a five-year term effective September
1, 1993.
J. Reid and Polly Anderson Professor of Manufacturing Technology. The Regents approved the appointment of Kensall D. Wise as the J. Reid and
Polly Anderson Professor of Manufacturing Technology, for a five-year term effective September 1, 1993.
G. Lawton and Louise G. Johnson Professor of Engineering. The
Regents approved the appointment of Don B. Chaffin as the G. Lawton and
Louise G. Johnson Professor of Engineering, for a five-year term effective September 1, 1993.
Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies. The
Regents approved the appointment of Abraham Nowersztern as the Louis and
Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies for the fall term 1993.
James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science. The Regents approved the appointment of Arlene W. Saxonhouse as the James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science, for a three-year term effective September 1, 1993.
Mary Fair Croushore Professor. The Regents approved the appointment of James A Winn as the Mary Fair Croushore Professor, effective May 1,
1993.
Godfrey D. Stobbe Professor of Pathology. The Regents approved the
appointment of Peter A Ward as the Godfrey D. Stobbe Professor of Pathology,
for a five-year term effective September 1, 1992.
Isadore Lampe Professorship in Radiation Oncology. The Regents
approved the establishment of the Isadore Lamp Professorship in Radiation
Oncology, effective May 1, 1993.
Howard RL Marsh Visiting Professorship in Journalism. The
Regents approved the appointment of Richard Willing as the Howard R. Marsh
Visiting Professor in Journalism, effective March 22 through April 7, 1993.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:


278




April Meeting, 1993


ADMINSlTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cllege of Literature. Scienc  and the Arts
Robert P. Cohen, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, January 1,1993
Medical School
Jeffrey A Fessler, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, April 1, 1993
Mark A Gerhardt, M.D., Lecturer in Pharmacology, January 1, 1993
Lawrence S. Mathews, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, April 15, 1993
School of Music
Evan K. Chambers MM., Assistant Professor of Music (Composition), September 1, 1993
Deborah S. Chodacki, MiM., Assistant Professor of Music (Clarinet), September 1, 1993
CANCELATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Lorenzo Z. Buj, Lecturer II, cancellation of appointment (previously reported as
September 1, 1992)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Shannon W. Anderson, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Acounting, April 1, 1993
Dickran A Kazarian, from Lecturer in Business Administration to Assistant Professor of
Finance and Real Estate, February 1, 1993
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Harold E. Arnett, Professor of Accounting, with tenure, phased retirement, January  1993 -June 30, 1996
Patricia C. O'Brien, Associate Professor of Accounting, without tenure, leave without salary,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Medical School
Neil M. Kalter, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Department of Psychiatry, Medical School,
and Professor of Psychology with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-September 30, 1993
School of Music
Keith W. Bryan, Professor of Music (Flute), with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1993 -May 31,1994
Peter Ferran, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31,1994
Armando A Ghitalla, Professor of Music (Trumpet), with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1,1993-May 31,1994
Marilyn Mason, Professor of Music (Organ), with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -May 31, 1994


279




April Meeting, 1993


John D. Mohler, Professor of Music (Clarinet), with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
George B. Wilson, Professor of Music (Composition), with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
UM-Fint ollee of Arts and Sciences
Robert W. Hywood, Professor of History, with tenure, and Chair, Department of History,
retrement furlough, September 1, 1993-May 31, 1994
Yolanda Mojica, Assistant Professor of Education, leave without salary, September 1-December
31, 1993
UM-Flint School of Public Health
David Schottenfeld, John G. Searle Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public
Health, and Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, January 1-June 30, 1993
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVE OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Collee of E   ineein
Gretar Tryggvason, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, cancellation of sabbatical leave (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1993)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
ColUee of Engineerin
Thomas C. Adamson, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, January 31, 1993
Andrew L. Robinson, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
March 19, 1993
College of Literature Science. and the Arts
J. Radcliffe Squires, Professor Emeritus of English Language, February 14, 1993
Medical School
Elizabeth A Del Buono, Assistant Professor of Pathology, December 31,1992
Stephen L. Eck, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, March 15,1993
Joseph E. Johnson III, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, March 31, 1993
Debra F. Neff, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, March 1, 1993
Brian J. Wiatrak, Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, April 9, 1993
James M. Wilson, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, March 15, 1993
School of Public Health
Frances A Larkin, Associate Professor of Nutrition, with tenure, May 31, 1993
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Thomas C. Adamson, Jr., professor of aerospace engineering, retired
from active faculty status on January 31, 1993, after an outstanding career as a
teacher and scholar.


280




April Meeting, 1993


Professor Adamson received his B.S. degree in aeronautical engineering
from Purdue University in 1949 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in 1950 and
1954, respectively, from the California Institute of Technology. He joined the
University of Michigan as an associate research engineer in the Engineering Research Institute in 1954 and was appointed lecturer in aeronautical engineering
in 1955. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1956, associate professor in
1957, and professor in 1961.
Professor Adamson's broad professional interests include fundamental aspects of high-speed aerodynamics, aircraft propulsion, and combustion, and he is
well-known for his work on detonation waves, transonic flows, and supersonic
jets. He has published widely and has given numerous presentations at other
universities and at professional meetings. His many doctoral students have
achieved distinguished careers in universities and research laboratories. In addition to his University service, Professor Adamson has been active in the American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) and has served on visiting
and review committees at other universities. One of the aerospace engineering
department's most popular teachers, Professor Adamson received the University's Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1980. His achievements in research and education were further honored by his election as a fellow of the
American Institute for Aeronautics and Astronautics.
As chair of the Department of Aerospace Engineering from 1983-91, Professor Adamson was instrumental in attracting several highly-talented faculty members to the department. He also played a pivotal role in planning and fundraising
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Building. Throughout his career, Professor
Adamson has provided exceptional educational leadership and has always been
willing to share his time and effort on behalf of faculty, colleagues, and students.
His continuing commitment to the Department of Aerospace Engineering, the
College of Engineering, and the University of Michigan has been greatly appreciated.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his outstanding career by
naming Thomas C. Adamson, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering.
Marvin A. Brandwin, assistant professor of psychology in the Department of Psychiatry, Medical School, retired from active faculty status on July 31,
1992.
A native of New York City, Professor Brandwin received his AB. degree
from Brooklyn College in 1948. He then entered the University of Michigan,
where he received his A.M. degree in 1950 and his Ph.D. degree in 1965. From
1948-52, he served clinical internships at the Veterans Administration Medical
Centers in Detroit and Battle Creek. He also completed a clinical fellowship at
the Child Mental Hygiene Clinic of the Merrill-Palmer Institute in Detroit.
Professor Brandwin joined the University of Michigan staff as a lecturer in
psychology at the Extension Service in 1953 and was a teaching assistant in the
Department of Psychology in 1954-55. He served as a senior clinical psychologist
at the Veterans Readjustment Center at the University of Michigan Medical Center from 1953-62 and staff psychologist at the Neuropsychiatric Institute from
1963-68. He was appointed instructor in the Department of Psychiatry in 1965
and was promoted to assistant professor in 1968.


281




April Meeting, 1993


Professor Brandwin's primary expertise was in psychodiagnostic testing. He
served as psychological testing director for adult services from 1976-91 and also
provided sterling leadership as psychology training director for adult services
from 1982-91. For more than three decades, Professor Brandwin was involved in
the clinical supervision of psychology interns and psychiatric residents. He also
was instrumental in implementing the first outpatient continuing care clinic for
chronic psychiatric patients.
Professor Brandwin's devoted loyalty as a teacher-clinician has been recognized by legions of students during the past several decades, and he also contributed unselfishly to all administrative requests to aid the department. His
insightfulness, expertise, dedication, and support throughout his long tenure in
the department have been noteworthy.
The Regents now salute this distinguished member of the faculty for his
dedicated service by naming Marvin A Brandwin Assistant Professor Emetitus
of Psychology.
Memorial Statements
The Regents were informed of the death of Harry A Towsley, M.D., professor emeritus of pediatrics and communicable diseases and professor emeritus of
postgraduate medicine. Regent Baker commented on Dr. Towsley's distinguished
career and contributions to the University over many years of his life. President
Duderstadt noted the wise counsel he had received from Dr. Towsley throughout
his years in University administration. On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded
by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved adoption of the following memorial statement:
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness the death on March 31, 1993, of Harry A. Towsley, M.D., professor emeritus of pediatrics and communicable diseases and professor emeritus of
postgraduate medicine. Dr. Towsley spent his entire medical career at the University of Michigan, and his many contributions as a physician and teacher made
him a leading figure in patient care and medical education at the University and
throughout the state.
Dr. Towsley was heir to a vibrant family medical tradition, and he passed
this legacy of skill and dedication to the service of others on to his own children
and grandchildren. He was born in Midland on September 15, 1905, the son of
Dr. Frank A Towsley, physician and mayor of Midland, and Harriet Sias Towsley. After attending public schools in Midland, Dr. Towsley attended Kalamazoo
College and Michigan State University and completed the combined program
leading to the degree in medicine at the University of Michigan in 1931. In 1932,
he maried Margaret Grace Dow of Midland, a 1928 graduate of the University.
Dr. Towsley completed his medical internship and residency at the University of
Michigan. He joined the Medical School faculty as an instructor in 1934 and rose
to the rank of professor in the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases in 1954. He was instrumental in establishing the extramural programs of
the Department of Postgraduate Medicine and became department chair in 1967.
He retired from both departments as professor emeritus in 1971.


282




April Meeting, 1993


During the Second World War, he served in the U.S. Army Medical Corps
from 1942-45, first as chief of the division of communicable diseases, with the
rank of major, in the 298th General Hospital in England and France, and then as
chief of laboratory services, with the rank of lieutenant colonel, in Belgium during the Battle of the Bulge.
In the best tradition of the medical educator, Dr. Towsley cherished concurrent ideals of enhancing the technical capabilities of physicians and making the
best medical service more widely available. In pursuit of those objectives, he led
campaigns for pediatric facilities and directed programs in postgraduate medical
training in Ann Arbor and throughout Michigan. The University's Towsley Center for Continuing Medical Education, financed through private sources, was designed, constructed, and opened under his leadership, and he worked closely with
his long-time friend Charles S. Mott in the establishment of the University's
Mott Children's Hospital. He was a pioneer in the use of radio and television in
the postgraduate training of practicing physicians, and was instrumental in establishing the University's association with residency training programs in community hospitals throughout the state. His foresight concerning the need for
primary care training in family practice led to the establishment of the family
practice residency program at the Mid-Michigan Regional Medical Center in Midland, the second oldest family practice program in the United States. A diplomate
of the American Board of Pediatrics since 1938, he served as president of the
American Academy of Pediatrics in 1964-65. He also served as president of the
Washtenaw County Medical Society (1948) and was a member of the governing
boards of the Michigan State Medical Society and the American Medical Association. He was president of both the Michigan Health Council and the Michigan
United Fund in 1967.
He served as vice chair of the board of governors of the Medical Center
Alumni Society (1962-67); a member of the board of directors of the Alumni Association (1966-69); and member (1962-83) and chair (1980-81) of the University
Development Council. As a faculty member, he served on the Board in Control of
Student Publications (1959-64); the Senate Advisory Committee on University
Affairs (1959-62); the University Committee on Broadcasting (1954-71); and the
Committee on Honorary Degrees (1960-63); he also took part in major faculty
councils at the medical center. The Harry A. Towsley Visiting Professorship in
Postgraduate Medicine was established at the time of his retirement in 1971 by
contributions from friends and colleagues in Ann Arbor and from faculty and
staff in university-affiliated hospitals and others in Michigan and across the
country.
Dr. Towsley's work on behalf of the University and the people of Michigan
continued long after his retirement in 1971. Under his direction from its establishment in 1960, the Hanry A and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation supported
innovative and highly effective programs in medicine, public health, education,
performing arts, and community services in the Ann Arbor area. In 1972, he
chaired the campaign for the Furstenberg Student Study Center at the Medical
School, and he generously assisted St Joseph Mercy Hospital (now the Catherine
McAuley Health Center) in establishing its continuing education center. In 1977,
with personal gifts and gifts from the Harty A and Margaret D. Towsley
Foundation, he helped establish an interdisciplinary program in the prevention


283




April Meeting, 1993


of child abuse in the University's Schools of Social Work, Law, and Medicine. He
also provided key leadership in bringing the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Library
to the University of Michigan and in funding major facilities in the College of Engineering, the School of Business Administration, and the School of Music.
Dr. Towsley was recipient of the Founder's Award of the Michigan United
Fund (1969); the Michigan Health Council Hall of Fame Award (1970); the Special Community Services Award of the Michigan Public Health Association
(1974); the Book of Good Deeds Award of the Ann Arbor Echange Club (1975);
the University of Michigan Presidential Societies Leadership Award (1987); and
the Eugene B. Power Annual Service Award of the United Negro College Fund
(1991). He was awarded honorary Doctor of Science degrees by Siena Heights
College in 1975 and by Adrian College in 1989. He also served on the boards of
directors of Gerber Products Company from 1970-76 and the Ann Arbor Trust
Company (now Society Bank, N.A) from 1958-77.
By his devotion to the highest ideals of his profession and his tireless efforts
on behalf of the people of the state of Michigan, Harry A Towsley brought great
honor to the University as a graduate and a faculty member. His innovations in
residency and postgraduate training strengthened medical education at Michigan, and his generous leadership benefited many other programs throughout the
University. As we mourn the loss of this great physician, teacher, and humanitarian, our heartfelt condolences go to his wife, Margaret Dow Towsley; his
daughters, Margaret Ann Riecker of Midland, Judith Dow Alexander of Ann Arbor, and Susan T. Wyland and Lynn T. White, both of McLean, Virginia; and his
several grandchildren and great grandchildren.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the final degree list for the December 1992 Law School
commencement, the tentative doctoral degree list for the May 1993 commencement of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists.
Honorary Degrees. On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent
McFee, the Regents unanimously approved the following individuals to receive
honorary degrees: Albina du Boisrouvray, president, Association Frangois Xavier
Bagnoud; Hillary Rodham Clinton, first lady of the United States; and Margaret
Dow Towsley, humanitarian and philanthropist.
Issuance of Housing Revenue Bonds, Series 1993A
Regent McGowan moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved adoption of the following resolution that authorizes the vice
president and chief financial officer to issue Housing Revenue Bonds, Series
1993A, and
1. together with the Underwriter, develop the terms and legal documentation for the bonds, and to prepare, circulate, and execute
preliminary and final official statements describing the bonds, the
University and its affairs; and


284




April Meeting, 1993


2.   to apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and
3.   to obtain a final proposal for the bonds, including price and interest rate, negotiate, execute, and deliver the bond purchase agreement with the underwriters, a trust indenture with a trustee to be
selected, an escrow agreement with an escrow agent to be selected,
and related documentation setting forth the terms of the bonds
and the sale and delivery thereof, and to execute and deliver the
bonds, all within the limitations of the following resolution.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF HOUSING
REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 1993A AND PROVIDING FOR
OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERE
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan (the
"University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and desirable to undertake renovations and major repairs of and to the Mary Markley and South Quadrangle Dormitories (the
"Facilities") on the Ann Arbor Campus of the University (collectively the "Project"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued bonds payable from the revenues of various
components of the University's housing system, which bonds are listed on Exhibit A and are
herein called the "Prior Bonds"; and
WHEREAS, in order to permit the issuance of the bonds authorized hereby on more favorable terms, to generate debt service savings or to restructure the Issuer's housing indebtedness, it may be necessary or appropriate to refund all or a portion of the Prior Bonds (such
portion to be refunded to be determined by an Authorized Officer (hereinafter defined) and herein called the "Refunded Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently control
and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it is necessary and desirable to authorize the issuance of revenue obligations to be designated "Housing Revenue
Bonds, Series 1993A" (the "Bonds"), in the original aggregate principal amount of not to exceed
Twenty Five Million Dollars ($25,000,000) to provide funds to pay part of the costs of the Project,
to refund the Refunded Bonds, to fund a debt service reserve fund for the Bonds, if necessary, and
to pay certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the refunding, and
WHEREAS, a trust indenture (the "Indenture") must be entered into by and between the
Issuer and a trustee to be designated by the Authorized Officers (hereinafter defined), pursuant
to which the Bonds will be issued and secured; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has retained John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated (the "Underwriter")
as underwriter to undertake market analysis with respect to the sale of the Bonds and to submit
an offer to purchase the Bonds pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement (the "Bond Purchase
Agreement") to be negotiated with the Underwriter and executed and delivered on behalf of the
Issuer by an Authorized Officer, and
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Bonds at the most opportune time, it is necessary for the Issuer to authorize the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate
Vice President for Finance of the University, or either one of them, (the "Authorized Officers") to
negotiate, execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer the Indenture, establish the specific terms of


285




April Meeting, 1993


the Bonds, prepare preliminary and final official statements with respect to the Bonds, and accept the offer of the Underwriter to purchase the Bonds, all within the limitations set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the financing of the Project and the refunding of the Refunded Bonds will
serve proper and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has full power under its constitutional authority for supervision of
the University, and control and expenditures from the University funds, to acquire the Project, to
refund the Refunded Bonds, to pay the cost of acquisition, construction, furnishing and equipping
of the Project by issuance of the Bonds, and to pledge the net revenues of the University's housing system (as hereinafter described) for payment of the Bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Bonds of the Issuer to be designated HOUSING REVENUE BONDS, SERIES 1993A in the original aggregate
principal amount to be determined by an Authorized Officer, but not to exceed $25,000,000, to be
dated as of a date to be determined by an Authorized Officer, for the purpose of providing funds
to pay part of the cost of the Project, to refund the Refunded Bonds, to fund a debt service reserve
fund for the Bonds in an amount, if any, to be determined by an Authorized Officer and to pay
costs incidental to the issuance of the Bonds. The Bonds may be serial bonds or term Bonds subject to redemption requirements, or both, as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but
the first maturity shall be not earlier than July 1, 1993 and the last maturity shall be no later
than December 31, 2021. The Bonds may bear no interest or interest at stated rates for the respective maturities thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the highest rate
of interest for any maturity shall not exceed 7% per annum. The Bonds may be issued in whole
or in part as capital appreciation bonds, which for their term or any part thereof bear no interest
but appreciate in principal amount over time at compounded rates (not in excess of 7% per annum) to be determined by an Authorized Officer. The Bonds may be made noncallable or subject
to redemption prior to maturity at the times and prices and in the manner as shall be established
by an Authorized Officer, but the maximum redemption premium shall not exceed 5% of the
principal being redeemed. Interest on the Bonds, if any, shall be payable semiannually on the
dates to be determined by an Authorized Officer. The maximum annual principal and interest requirements on the Bonds shall not exceed $3,000,000. The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form in denominations, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and
authenticated, all as shall be provided in the Indenture. The Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to be established by an Authorized
Officer (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original issue discount, shall not exceed 0.8%
of the principal amount of the Bonds), plus accrued interest, if any, from the dated date of the
Bonds to the date of delivery thereof.
2. The Bonds shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from and
equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of the Net Revenues (as shall be defined in
the Indenture) of the University's Housing System (as shall be described and defined in the Indenture) and moneys from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds created pursuant to the
Indenture, as shall be specified in the Indenture. The lien created by an Indenture on the portion
of the Net Revenues previously pledged for debt service on the Prior Bonds shall be subordinated
to the liens thereon securing the Prior Bonds until the respective related issues of the Prior
Bonds are defeased or paid. The Authorized Officers, or either of them, are authorized, if appropriate to renegotiate the security for any of the Prior Bonds listed on Exhibit A, to place it on
a parity with the Bonds authorized hereby. Except as provided in the Indenture, no recourse
shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium on the Bonds or
any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the Issuer or any officer or agent thereof
or of the University, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Bonds and interest
with respect thereto become a lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of
the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or the University, other than the Net Revenues and the moneys
from time to time on deposit in the specified funds created by the Indenture.


286




April Meeting, 1993


3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from
Net Revenues or secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the Net Revenues, upon compliance with the terms and conditions to be set forth in the Indenture.
4. The Authorized Officers or either of them, and the Treasurer and Investment Officer of
the University are hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Issuer and as
its corporate act and deed, to select a trustee and to prepare, negotiate, execute and deliver the
Indenture, in the form as an Authorized Officer shall approve upon recommendation of legal
counsel, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of the Indenture.
5. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized to select a bond insurer for the Bonds, if the Authorized Officers deem bond insurance to be economic, and to execute and deliver any agreements, for and on behalf of the Issuer and as its corporate act and
deed, necessary in connection therewith.
6. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized and directed, in the
name and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute and deliver the Bond Purchase Agreement, in such form as an Authorized Officer shall approve upon
recommendation of legal counsel, subject to the terms hereof, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement.
7. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the
Bonds by placing their facsimile signatures thereon, and to deliver the Bonds to the purchaser in
exchange for the purchase price thereof, as provided in the notice of sale.
8. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name of and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate,
execute and deliver an escrow agreement relating to the Refunded Bonds and the Bond proceeds
therefor, in such form as an Authorized Officer shall approve upon recommendation of legal
counsel, subject to the terms hereof, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of such escrow agreement.
9. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized to prepare or arrange to be prepared the preliminary and final Official Statements with respect to the Bonds,
and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer the Official Statement with respect to the
Bonds. The Underwriter is authorized to circulate and use the Preliminary Official Statement
and the Official Statement, in accordance with applicable law, in the offering, sale and delivery of
the Bonds.
10. The Authorized Officers, the Secretary, the Treasurer and Investment Officer, representatives of the General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are each
hereby authorized to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and
documents for and on behalf of the Issuer or the University required by this Resolution, the Indenture or the Bond Purchase Agreement, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection with
the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds, all as contemplated hereby or in connection with
subsequent elections, approvals or determinations under the Indenture.
11. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the University in conflict
herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Refinancing of $10,880,000 of Parking System             Revenue Bonds (Ann
Arbor Campus), Series 1986A
Regent Power moved, Regent McFee seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved adoption of the following resolution authorizing the vice president and chief financial officer to issue the Parking System      Revenue Bonds,
Series 1993A, and:


287




April Meeting, 1993


1.   together with the underwriter, develop the terms and legal documentation for the bonds, and to prepare, circulate, and execute
preliminary and final official statements describing the bonds, the
University and its affairs; and
2.   to apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and
3.   to obtain a final proposal for the bonds, including price and interest rate, negotiate, execute, and deliver the bond purchase agreement with the underwriters, a trust indenture with a trustee to be
selected, an escrow agreement with an escrow agent to be selected,
and related documentation setting forth the terms of the bonds
and the sale and delivery thereof, and to execute and deliver the
bonds, all within the limitations of the following resolution.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF
PARKING SYSTEM REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS, SERIES 1993A
AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan (the
"University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued its $10,880,000 Parking System Revenue
Bonds (Ann Arbor Campus), Series 1986A, (the "Prior Bonds") under and pursuant to a Trust
Indenture dated as of March 1, 1986 (the "Prior Indenture") between the Issuer and Comerica
Bank (formerly Comerica Bank - Detroit) as trustee (the "Prior Bonds Trustee"), which Prior
Bonds are payable from the revenues of the Issuer's Ann Arbor Campus Parking System and
other legally available funds; and
WHEREAS, it may be economic and prudent to refund the Prior Bonds; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently control
and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it is necessary and desirable to authorize the issuance of revenue obligations to be designated "Parking System Refunding Revenue Bonds, Series 1993A" (the "Bonds"), in the original aggregate principal amount
of not to exceed Twelve Million Dollars ($12,000,000) to provide funds to be used, together with
existing funds of the Issuer, to pay the costs of refunding the Prior Bonds, to fund a debt service
reserve fund for the Bonds, if required, and to pay certain costs incurred in connection with the
issuance of the Bonds and the refunding of the Prior Bonds; and
WHEREAS, a trust indenture (the "Indenture") must be entered into by and between the
Issuer and a trustee to be designated by the Authorized Officers (hereinafter defined), pursuant
to which the Bonds will be issued and secured; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has retained John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated (the "Underwriter")
as underwriter to undertake market analysis with respect to the sale of the Bonds and to submit
an offer to purchase the Bonds pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement (the "Bond Purchase
Agreement") to be negotiated with the Underwriter and executed and delivered on behalf of the
Issuer by an Authorized Officer, and
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Bonds at the most opportune time, it is necessary for the Issuer to authorize the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate
Vice President for Finance of the University, or either one of them, (the "Authorized Officers") to


288




April Meeting, 1993


negotiate, execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer the Indenture, establish the specific terms of
the Bonds, prepare preliminary and final official statements with respect to the Bonds, and accept the offer of the Underwriter to purchase the Bonds, all within the limitations set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the refunding of the Prior Bonds will serve proper and appropriate public
purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has full power under its constitutional authority for supervision of
the University, and control and expenditures from the University funds, to refund the Prior
Bonds, pay the cost of the refunding by issuance of the Bonds, and to pledge the Revenues of the
System (as shall be defined in the Indenture) for payment of the Bonds.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Bonds of the Issuer to be designated PARKING SYSTEM REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS, SERIES 1993A
in the original aggregate principal amount to be determined by an Authorized Officer, but not to
exceed $12,000,000, to be dated as of a date to be determined by an Authorized Officer, for the
purpose of providing funds which shall be used, together with existing funds of the Issuer, to pay
the cost of refunding the Prior Bonds, to fund a debt service reserve fund for the Bonds in an
amount, if any, to be determined by an Authorized Officer and to pay costs incidental to the issuance of the Bonds and to the refunding. The Bonds may be serial bonds or term Bonds subject
to redemption requirements, or both, as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the
first maturity shall be not earlier than June 1, 1993 and the last maturity shall be no later than
December 1, 2015. The Bonds may bear no interest or interest at stated rates for the respective
maturity thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the highest rate of interest
for any maturity shall not exceed 6 1/2% per annum. The Bonds shall be issued in whole or in
part as capital appreciation bonds, which for their term or any part thereof bear no interest but
appreciation in principal amount over time at compounded rates (not in excess of 6 1/2% per annum) to be determined by an Authorized Officer. The Bonds may be made noncallable or subject
to redemption prior to maturity at the times and prices and in the manner as shall be established
by an Authorized Officer, but the maximum redemption premium shall not exceed 5% of the
principal being redeemed. Interest on the Bonds, if any, shall be payable semiannually on the
dates to be determined by an Authorized Officer. The maximum annual principal and interest requirements on the Bonds shall not exceed $900,000. The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered
form in denominations, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as shall be provided in the Indenture. The Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriter
pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to be established by an Authorized Officer,
(but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original issue discount, shall not exceed 0.8% of the
principal amount of the Bonds), plus accrued interest, if any, from the dated date of the Bonds to
the date of delivery thereof.
2. The Bonds shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from and
equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of the Revenues of the System (as shall be
defined in the Indenture) and moneys from time to time on deposit in certain funds created pursuant to the Indenture as may be specified therein. The Issuer will also covenant in the Indenture, in addition to other requirements, that in the event the Revenues of the System are
insufficient therefore, the Issuer shall use Legally Available Funds, as shall be defined in the Indenture, to pay debt service on the Bonds. The Indenture may also require the use of Legally
Available Funds to pay operating expenses of the Parking System, to the extent Revenues are insufficient therefor. The Issuer shall reserve the right in the Indenture to exclude certain facilities
presently existing or to be acquired or constructed, from the Parking System, and certain receipts from the definition of Revenues of the System.
Except as provided in the Indenture, no recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium on the Bonds or any claim based thereon against the
State of Michigan, the Issuer or any officer or agent thereof or of the University, as individuals,
either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Bonds and interest with respect thereto become a lien


289




April Meeting, 1993


on or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or
the University, other than the Revenues of the System and the moneys from time to time on deposit in the specified funds created by the Indenture.
3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from
Revenues of the System or secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the Revenues, upon
compliance with the terms and conditions to be set forth in the Indenture.
4. The Authorized Officers or either of them, and the Treasurer and Investment Officer of
the University are hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Issuer and as
its corporate act and deed, to select a trustee and to prepare, negotiate, execute and deliver the
Indenture, in the form as an Authorized Officer shall approve upon recommendation of legal
counsel, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of the Indenture.
5. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized to select a bond insurer for the Bonds, if the Authorized Officers deem bond insurance to be economic, and to
execute and deliver any agreements, for and on behalf of the Issuer and as its corporate act and
deed, necessary in connection therewith.
6. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized and directed, in the
name and on behalf of the Issuer, and all its corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute and deliver the Bond Purchase Agreement, in such form as an Authorized Officer shall approve upon
recommendation of legal counsel and as evidenced by signature thereon, subject to the terms
hereof.
7. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name of and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate,
execute and deliver an escrow agreement relating to the Refunded Bonds and the Bond proceeds
therefor, in such form as an Authorized Officer shall approve upon recommendation of legal
counsel, subject to the terms hereof, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of such escrow agreement.
8. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the
Bonds by placing their facsimile signatures thereon, and to deliver the Bonds to the purchaser in
exchange for the purchase price thereof, as provided in the notice of sale.
9. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized to prepare or arrange to be prepared the preliminary and final Official Statements with respect to the Bonds,
and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer the Official Statement with respect to the
Bonds.
10. The Underwriter is authorized to circulate and use the Preliminary Official Statement
and the Official Statement, in accordance with applicable law, in the offering, sale and delivery of
the Bonds.
11. The Authorized Officers, the Secretary, the Treasurer and Investment Officer, representatives of the General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are each
hereby authorized to perform all adcts and deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and
documents for and on behalf of the Issuer or the University required by this Resolution, the Indenture or the Bond Purchase Agreement, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection with
the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds, all as contemplated hereby or in connection with
subsequent elections, approvals or dterminations under the Indenture.
12. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the University in conflict
herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.


290




April Meeting, 1993


State Building Authority Conveyance of the Engineering, Chemical
Sciences, and Flint Classroom Laboratory Building Sites
Regent Varner moved approval of the following resolutions, requesting approval of the conveyance of the Engineering, Chemical Sciences, and Flint Classroom   Laboratory Buildings to the University. Regent Power seconded the
motion and it was adopted unanimously.
A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
REQUESTING AND APPROVING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY
FOR THE ENGINEERING BUILDING NO. 1
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan requesting and approving
the conveyance of property, and to provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body corporate
created under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own, improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage and maintain buildings, necessary parking
structures or lots and facilities and sites therefor for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher education created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of
the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "University") have been
created and are maintained pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the Engineering Building No. 1 and
the site upon which it was constructed (the Engineering Building No. 1 and the site together are
the "Facilities") and the Authority leased the Facilities to the University and the State of Michigan (the "State") pursuant to a lease dated March 1, 1984 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title to the Facilities to the University upon request by the University after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as
provided in the Lease are paid in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in
the Lease for consideration of one ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the University of all
monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established by the Lease
as conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the Authority to the University
have occurred.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
1. The University hereby requests that the Authority convey title to the Facilities by Quitclaim Deed to the University.
2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00) Dollar and the
assumption by the University of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance of the Facilities pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth above is
approved and the President and the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are authorized
and directed to execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance in such form as may be requested by the Authority and approved by counsel for the University.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this resolution
are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.


291




April Meeting, 1993


5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
REQUESTING AND APPROVING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY
FOR THE CHEMICAL SCIENCES BUILDING
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan requesting and approving
the conveyance of property, and to provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body corporate
created under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own, improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage and maintain buildings, necessary parking
structures or lots and facilities and sites therefor for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher education created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of
the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "University") has been
created and is maintained pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the Chemical Sciences Building and
the site upon which it was constructed (the Chemical Sciences Building and the site together are
the "Facilities") and the Authority leased the Facilities to the University and the State of Michigan (the "State") pursuant to a lease dated March 1, 1987 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title to the Facilities to the University upon request by the University after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as
provided in the Lease are paid in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in
the Lease for consideration of one ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the University of all
monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established by the Lease
as conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the Authority to the University
have occurred.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
1. The University hereby requests that the Authority convey title to the Facilities by Quitclaim Deed to the University.
2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00) Dollar and the
assumption by the University of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance of the Facilities pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth above is
approved and the President and the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are authorized
and directed to execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance in such form as may be requested by the Authority and approved by counsel for the University.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this resolution
are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.


292




April Meeting, 1993


A RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
REQUESTING AND APPROVING CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY FOR
THE FLINT CLASSROOM/LABORATORY BUILDING
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan requesting and approving
the conveyance of property, and to provide maters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority"), a statutory body corporate
created under provisions of 1964 PA 183, as amended, is authorized to acquire, construct, furnish, equip, own, improve, enlarge, operate, mortgage and maintain buildings, necessary parking
structures or lots and facilities and sites therefor for use by the State or any of its agencies including institutions of higher education created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of
the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "University") have been
created and are maintained pursuant to Sections 4 and 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the Authority has previously acquired the Flint Classroom/Laboratory Building and the site upon which it was constructed (the Flint Classroom/aboratory Building and the
site together are the "Facilities") and the Authority leased the Facilities to the University and the
State of Michigan (the "State") pursuant to a lease dated March 1, 1987 (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, under the terms of the Lease, the Authority agreed to convey title to the Facilities to the University upon request by the University after the Bonds which financed the Facilities (the "Bonds" as defined in the Lease) and any additional bonds or other obligations as
provided in the Lease are paid in full or provision for the payment thereof is made as provided in
the Lease for consideration of one ($1.00) Dollar and the assumption by the University of all
monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds have been paid in full and all conditions established by the Lease
as conditions precedent to conveyance of title to the Facilities by the Authority to the University
have occurred.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY THAT:
1. The University hereby requests that the Authority convey title to the Facilities by Quitclaim Deed to the University.
2. The consideration for the conveyance of the Facilities shall be one ($1.00) Dollar and the
assumption by the University of all monetary obligations and legal responsibilities for the operation and maintenance of the Facilities.
3. The conveyance of the Facilities pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth above is
approved and the President and the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer are authorized
and directed to execute any documents to accomplish the conveyance in such form as may be requested by the Authority and approved by counsel for the University.
4. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with this resolution
are, to the extent of such conflict, repealed.
5. This resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.
Department of Public Safety and Security
On a motion by Regent McFee, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with the security communication system project, as described in the Regents Communication.


293




April Meeting, 1993


Pack ard Haar, Willow Run Airport
Vice President Womack reported that Wayne County had submitted an offer to purchase Packard Hangar at Willow Run Airport, according to the terms
described in the Regents Communication. Regent Deitch moved that the University accept Wayne County's offer of $1.7 million for purchase of the Packard
Hangar, Willow Run Airport, subject to the terms outlined in the Regents Communication. Regent McGowan seconded the motion.
Regent Baker observed that when the airport was sold to Wayne County, he
had requested that an access clause be included for the Packard Hangar. He said
that it was churlish on the part of the Board to not be more fair-minded in this
matter.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
East Engineering Building Renovation
Regent McGowan made the following motion with respect to the East Engineering Building renovation project: approval of the project budget, authorization of soliciting bids, and awarding of a construction contract to the successfil
bidder, providing the contract values are within the approved budget. Regent
McFee seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Michigan Stadium Renovation
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved proceeding with Phase III of the Michigan Stadium renovation, as described in the Regents Communication.
There followed some discussion about funding of capital facilities at the University. Vice President Womack observed that since the establishment of the infrastructure fee two years ago, a plan has been developed to attend to the
University's infrastructure maintenance needs. He noted that the ability to dedicate a fixed amount of money for the renovation of general fund facilities represents a very important landmark for the University.
Regent Power observed that this type of prudent management is extremely
important for the University, because in its absence, the cost of unattended-to
maintenance could reach insurmountable proportions, as it has in many other
institutions. Further discussion ensued on the importance of preventive maintenance for capital facilities.
State-Funded Capital Projects
Vice President Womack reported that the proposed capital outlay bill includes funding for projects totaling $89.5 million for the University of Michigan,
final authorization for which is contingent on final approval by the legislature
and the governor. These projects include the Integrated Technology Instruction
Center/College of Engineering Center ($57 million) and Central Campus renovations for the C.C. Little Building ($16.5 million) and Angell Hall ($16 million).


294




April Meeting, 1993


Regent Deitch moved to authorize proceeding with the projects as previously approved by the Regents, and for the Angell Hall project, appointment of Albert Kahn Associates, Inc. as the architect and authorization to initiate the
design process. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
UM-Flint Central Energy Plant Utility Distribution System Expansion
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously authorized award of a construction contract to the low bidder,
Spence Brothers, for construction of the UM-Flint Central Energy Plant Utility
Distribution System Expansion Project.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the following renovation projects: 1) West Medical Tunnel piping expansion joint replacement and support repairs; 2) Dana Building
renovations; 3) Kelsey Museum renovations; 4) Medical Science II Phase I
remodeling for the Department of Microbiology and Immunology; 5) Hutchins
Hall renovation of Classroom 132; and 6) Clements Library elevator installation.
UM Hospitals Radiology CT Scanner Equipment Upgrade
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved submission of a Certificate of Need application to the
Michigan Department of Public Health to upgrade a Radiology CT scanner and
purchase the equipment contingent upon Certificate of Need approval
Venture Capital Investment
Regent McGowan moved that $10 million of the University Endowment
Fund be committed to Endowment Venture Partners II, L.P. and that $2 million
of the University Endowment Fund be committed to Accel Partners IV, L.P.,
pending the general counsel's review of the partnership documents for legal acceptability.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Science and Environmental Education-NORTH (SEE-NORTH)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, all six Regents
present unanimously approved authorization for the University to enter into a
subcontract with SEE-NORTH, a nonprofit organization. Because the executive
director of SEE-NORTH, Dr. Mary J. Whitmore, is also an employee of the University of Michigan, this arrangement falls under the terms of the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the agreement will be the Regents of the University of Michigan
and Science and Environmental Education-NORTH (SEE-NORTH).


295




April Meeting, 1993


2.   The agreement will be a standard Michigan subcontract for one year in the
amount of $29,332. The prime award from the Michigan Department of Education is for one year in the amount of $50,487. The proposed subcontract will detail the scope of work and the budget.
3.   Dr. Whitmore will not be compensated outside of her University salary for this
project. However, as executive director she will receive compensation from
SEE-NORTR
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 3.07 (Approval and Execution of
University Documents)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 3.07. This bylaw
revision is required due to the replacement of the monthly Report on Investment
Transactions with the new comprehensive investment report. The following is
the text of the revised bylaw:
Sec. 3.07.   Approval and Exeution of University Documents
1.   All transactions involving the purchase, sale, or other disposition of
real property shall be first approved and authorized by the Board.
Unless otherwise specifically provided by the Board, all land contracts and deeds conveying University property shall be executed by
the president and the vice president and chief financial officer.
a. All sales of donated real estate located outside the Ann Arbor,
Dearborn, or Flint campus areas and with a sales price less than
$30,000; real estate that funds a Unitrust for any amount or location,
and bequeathed or devised real property requiring action by an estate
executor, personal representative, or a trustee may be approved and
authorized by the vice president and chief financial officer and the resurting land contract and d deeds     by both the vice president
and chief financial officer and president. These ransactions will be
reported to the Regents in the monthly Investment Transaction report.
b. All sales authorized by the vice president and chief financial officer
must equal or exceed the appraised value.
2.   Transactions involving personal property shall be approved and executed as follows:
a. The investment or reinvestment of gift, trust, agency, and deposit
funds, the purchase and sale of personal property acquired in connection with the invesment or reinvestment of such funds, and the approval of real estate mortgages may be made by any two of the
following officers: the president, the vice president and chief financial officer, the associate vice president for finance, the controller, and
the treasurer and investment officer. Any two of the aid officers are
hereby authorized and empowered to execute and deliver the documents necessary to complete the sale of any stocks, bonds, evidences of
indebtedness, or other securities, including rights and options to acquire or sell the same owned or held by The Regents of the University
of Michigan. The transfer of any such securies by the officers herein
authorized shall be sufficient to convey ownership to the transferee.
b. All contracts for sponsored research and supplements thereto, including agreements for fellowships, cholarships, and grand  ts-in-aid,
and all contracts covering payment for tuition and supplies may be


296




April Meeting, 1993


executed by the vice president and chief financial officer; and the vice
president's signature shall be certified by the secretary where such
certification is requested; provided, however, the vice president and
chief financial officer is authorized to delegate in writing to designated representatives authority to execute contracts and/or applications for grants or contracts where the amount involved is less than
$250,000 and/or training grants or fellowship programs which do
not exceed a rate of $250,000 per year and where the commitments
anticipated fall within the normal activities of the University.
c. All discharges of mortgages and cancellations of land contracts
may be executed by any two of the following officers: the president,
the vice president and chief financial officer, the secretary, the associate vice president for finance, the controller, and the treasurer and investment officer.
d. All routine contracts for the purchase, sale, or loan of supplies or
equipment within authorized budgets may be executed by the vice
president and chief financial officer, provided, however, that the vice
president and chief financial officer is authorized to delegate in writing to the secretary, the associate vice president for finance, the associate vice president for business operations, [or] the purchasing agent,
or other designated representatives, authority to execute such contracs.
3.   In case the president is absent or for any reason is unable to execute
documents requiring the president's signature, then they shall be executed on the president's behalf by the vice president and chief financial officer. In the event the vice president and chief financial officer
acts on behalf of the president or in the event of the absence or inability to act of the vice president and chief financial officer, then the associate vice president for finance, the controller, or the secretary may
execute such documents.
4.   All other documents involving real or personal property transactions
and vendor service contracts shall be executed by the vice president
and chief financial officer; provided, however, that the vice president
and chief financial officer may delegate in writing to the secretary,
the associate vice president for finance, or other designated representatives, authority to execute such documents.
Regents' Bylaws Section 1.14 (Regental and Executive/Senior Officer
Conflict of Interest Policy)
President Duderstadt observed that the Regents had discussed the adoption
of a conflict of interest policy at the previous meeting. At that time, it was decided to delay consideration of the policy pending incorporation of revisions suggested by the Regents. The proposed policy incorporates the revisions. Vice
President Kennedy reported that the proposed bylaw had been posted as required by Regental policy, and no comments had been received.
The following is the text of the proposed bylaw:
Sec. 1.14.  Reental And Executive/Senior Officer Conflict Of Interest
Policy
Regents and executive officers of the University of Michigan, and the senior
officers of the University at Dearborn and at Flint, shall at all times act in a manner


297




April Meeting, 1993


consistent with their fduciary responsibilities to the University and shall exercise particudar care that no detriment to the University results from conflicts between their interests and those of the University. If a Regent or an excutive/senior officer believes
that he or she may have a conflict of interest, the Regent or executive/senior officer shall
promptly and fully disclose the conflict to the secretary of the Board of Regents and
shall refrain from participating in any way in the matter to which the conflict relates
until the conflict question has been resolved. The minutes of a Regents' meeting where
a disclosure of a conflict or possible conflict of interest is made shall reflect the disclo
sure and that the Regent or  ecutive/senior officer having such abstained from participation in the matter.
A Regent or eecutive/senior officer is considered to have a conflict of interest
when the Regent or executive/senior officer or any of his or her family or associates, either (i) has an existing or potential financial or other interest which impairs or might
appear to impair the Regent's or executive/senior officer's independence ofjudgment in
the discharge of responsibilities to the University, or (ii) may receive a material, financial, or other benefit from knowledge of information confidential to the University. The
"Family" of a Regent or executive/senior officer includes his or her spouse, parents, siblings, children, and, if living in the same household and sharing expenses, other individuals. An "Associate" of a Regent or excutive/senior officer includes any person,
trust, organization, or enterprise of, in or with which the individual or any member of
his or her Family (i) is a director, officer, employee, member, partner, or trustee; or (ii)
has a financial interest that represents 5% or more of his or her assets or any interest
that enables him or her, acting alone or in conjunction with others, to exercise control
or to influence policy significantly, or (iii) has any other material association.
The secretary shall consult with the president and general counsel regarding all
conflict questions of which the secretary is informed and shall report regularly to the
Board of Regents regarding any unresolved conflict questions. This policy statement is
to be interpreted and applied in a manner that will best serve the interests of the
University. In some cases, it may be determined that after full disclosure to those concerned, the University's interests are best served by participation by the Regent or
executive/senio r offer despite the conflict. The University will assist the Board in
determining if such proposed participation violates the state conflict of interest laws.
This policy is in addition to any obligations imposed on a Regent or executive/senior officer by the state conflict of interest laws, PA 1968, Nos. 317 and 318, as
amended.
The secretary shall distribute annually a copy of this policy statement to each Regent and executive/senior officer.
Regent Baker observed that since he joined the Board of Regents 20 years
ago, there has been a loss of spirit, and the University has become less open than
it is now. He believes this is due to the ongoing codifying of people's duties and
responsibilities, and in that regard, he doesn't see a need for a conflict of interest
policy. He then made three suggestions for the proposed policy: 1) in the second
paragraph, number ii, he suggested that a "5 % or more" financial interest be replaced with "any" financial interest; 2) in the second paragraph, number iii, "has
any other material association," add the words, "of which the Regent or executive
officer has knowledge;" and 3) add a phrase stating that upon any Regent's or executive officer's request, a written opinion on the conflict of interest or apparent
conflict of interest will be provided.
General Counsel Cole responded that the 5 percent interest was included so
that a very slight interest would not prohibit the person's ability to participate.
Regent Baker stated that any interest should be disclosed. Regarding points two


298




April Meeting, 1993


and three, Ms. Cole stated she would not object to adding those points, as this
would be the standard procedure in any case.
There followed a discussion about the pros and cons of the "5% or more"
clause. Regent Power noted that deleting this would obligate Regents to disclose
their holdings of all public stock in any corporation that might have any dealing
with the University, and he doubted that this is the intent of the policy.
Regarding the need for the policy, Regent Deitch observed that it is a codification of the tradition of self-disclosure and good judgment that the Board and
the executive officers have adhered to in the past. He also noted that including
the 5% statement would not preclude anyone from making a more complete disclosure. He expressed agreement with Regent Baker's other two points.
Ms. Cole reported that the "5% or more" language is standard for this type
of policy, and further discussion ensued on this topic. Vice President Womack
pointed out that one is obliged to report what one believes puts you at risk. The
question is whether or not there is some deminimus number that requires one to
disclose; whether you ought to disclose it is not an issue in the policy.
Regent McFee suggested that the general counsel review the wording vis a
vis the issue of stock trading and the type of reporting that it would require, the
issue being whether the amount of one's holdings would be significant enough to
have an impact on one's vote.
Regent Deitch reiterated that the basis of the policy is self-disclosure, and
there is nothing that prevents anyone from disclosing everything. However, the 5
percent rule is a benchmark, and gives counsel something on which to base an
assessment. Ms. Cole pointed out that the term refers not to ownership of 5
percent of a company's stock, but whether one's shares in a company represent
greater than 5 percent of his or her total assets.
Following further discussion about the desire to avoid burdensome reporting requirements for trading of stock, Ms. Cole noted that this is not a "disclosure of assets" conflict of interest policy. It comes into play only as an agenda
item comes to the Board that involves an outside entity in which there might be a
conflict of interest. It does not impose an additional burden to what has been the
existing practice.
Regent Baker observed that he was still troubled by the "5 percent" requirement. Regent Deitch pointed out that the phrase "of which you have knowledge"
would address Regent Baker's objections.
President Duderstadt noted that all appear to be in agreement with Regent
Baker's suggestions to add the phrase "of which the Regent and executive officer
has knowledge" and adding a phrase requiring a written opinion of a conflict situation, and that the general consensus is that the "5 percent" benchmark is appropriate.
Regent Deitch moved that the proposed Bylaw 1.14 be adopted with instruction to counsel to add a phrase addressing the Regent's and executive officer's


299




April Meeting, 1993


knowledge of material association, and to add a phrase requiring the general
counsel to give a written opinion whenever requested by a Regent or executive
officer.
Regent Baker suggested amending the motion that the "5 percent" term be
included in the bylaw for a year and be examined after that time. Regent Deitch
did not accept that amendment, noting that a bylaw can be amended at any time.
Regent Power seconded Regent Deitch's motion. The vote was then taken, and
the motion to adopt the bylaw subject to the two modifications was approved
unanimously.
Regent Baker observed that that he intended to bring up the issue again in
a year or so for reexamination.
Revision to Regents' Bylaw Section 12.05 (Bentley Historical Library)
Provost Whitaker reported that the intent of the bylaw revision is to reflect
the current activities of the Bentley Historical Library and to codify the fact that
this library is the official repository for the University's records.
Regent Baker moved approval of the proposed revisions to Regents Bylaw
Section 12.05. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously. The text of the revised bylaw is as follows:
Sec. 12.056  Bentle Historical Librar
The Bentley Historical Library shall be organized as one administrative unit to
include the Michigan Historical Collections and the University Archives and Records
Program. The Michigan Historical Collections shall be maintained for the purpose of
collecting, preserving, and making available manuscripts and other materials pertainin to the state, its institutions, and its social, economic, and intellectual development.
The University Archives and Records Progrmn shall be maintained to o, preserve,
and make available the record generated by the University in the condu  of its business. The Bentley Library shall be in the charge of a director, responsible to the provst
and vice president for academic affairs, who shall be appointed by the Board on nomination by the president.
The director shall be assisted by an executive committee, charged with the formulation of policies in matters in relation to the budget, promotions, appointments, the
collections, publications, and other activities.
The xcecutive committee shall consist of five members, who shall be appointed by
the Board, upon recommendation by the president, for terms of five years, the terms to
be so adjusted that one vacancy will occur each year.
Medical Staff Appointments
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Varner, and on the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board, the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Resolution in Honor of 1992-93 Michigan Wolverines Basketball Team
Regent McFee made the following motion:


300




April Meeting, 1993


Resents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan take great pride in being
the only university governing board in the nation this year to be able to
adopt back-to-back resolutions commending the men's basketball team
and its coaches for their second consecutive participation in the NCAA
Final Four basketball championship.
The astounding performance of this group of young men last year
was an inspiration to the thousands of Michigan alumni and fans everywhere. That accomplishment, however, led to an expectation that they
could surely do it again this year, a feat rarely accomplished in collegiate athletics.
But repeat they did with an almost uncanny series of thrilling victories that matched or even surpassed their success of the previous year.
The Regents salute the 1992/93 men's basketball team, its coaches,
and all in the athletic department who supported this splendid season.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved by acclamation.
Conflict of Interest
Regent Baker declared that he had a conflict of interest, in that he has government bonds and treasury bonds that exceed 5 percent of his investments.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will be held on May 6 and 7, 1993. Regents' travel, accommodation, telephone, and other expenses for the month of March 1993 totalled $1,193.07.
Richard L. Kenn    Sec   ry


301




MAY MEETING, 1993
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 6, 1993
The Regents met at 1:15 PM. in the Rackham Assembly Hall and heard presentations about research and training programs aimed at improving the climate
for minority members of the University community. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Varner. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Renick and Jones. Regent Waters was absent.
Public Comments
At 4:00 PM. the Regents reassembled in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union.
Executive Session Motion
Regent Deitch made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) and 8(h) of the Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in
closed session on Thursday, May 6, 1993, in the Regents' Room, immediately following the Public Comments session, for the purpose of
consulting with our attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in
connection with specific pending litigation and for considering material
exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act. such exempt material consists of a written opinion from
the Board's legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The Regents then heard comments from Jonathan Rose, alumnus, on the
student code, the Diag speech policy, the Michigan Daily oversight board, and
the University police.
Following Public Comments, the Regents went to the Regents' Room at
4:30 PM. to meet in closed session.
Friday, May 7, 1993
The Regents met at 9:45 AM. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Deitch, McFee, McGowan, Power, and
Varner. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Hartford, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Renick and Jones. Regent Waters was absent.


303




May Meeting, 1993


President Duderstadt called the meeting to order, and called on Vice President Womack to introduce the first item of business.
Holocaust Memorial
Vice President Womack reported that the Regents were being asked to approve the location and authorize proceeding with the Holocaust Memorial. He introduced Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, who descnrbed the planning for the
memorial and the process by which the sculptor, Leonard Baskin, was selected.
He displayed a diagram of the site and photographs of a plastic model of the proposed sculpture.
Following his presentation, Mr. Mayer and Mr. Larry Crockett, vice president of the Ann Arbor Holocaust Memorial Foundation, Inc., responded to questions from the Regents. Regent Baker observed that the plaque marking the
memorial ought to note that the memorial represents man's inhumanity to man
in general throughout history.
Following further discussion, Regent Baker moved approval of the location
of the Holocaust Memorial on the northwest comer of Fletcher and Washington
Streets and authorization to carry out the project consistent with the conditions
established on President Duderstadt's letter of October 1, 1990.
Minutes
Approval of the minutes for the April 1993 meeting was delayed until the
following month.
Reports
Monthly Report of Invested Funds. Vice President Womack called on
Mr. Norman Herbert, treasurer and investment officer, to review the information presented in this newly-developed report Mr. Herbert noted that the purpose of this report is to support the Regents' strategic decision-making with
respect to investments. He gave a slide presentation explaining the information
contained in each section of the report, and responded to questions from the Regents.
Following his presentation, Vice President Womack recognized Ms. Elizabeth Hokada and Ms. Linda Berlin for their outstanding work in the revision of the
management and custody systems. Regents Baker and Power complimented the
Investment Office staff for developing the more useful investment reporting system.
Vice President Womack commented on the value of the University Investment PooL He noted that from a University-wide perspective a core portion of
the pool represents long-term capital, and staff is developing recommendations to
invest that core in long-term strategies.
Other Reports. Vice President Womack submitted the Investment, Plant
Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations reports. Vice President


304




May Meeting, 1993


Kelly submitted Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored
Projects. A short discussion followed about the importance of planning for the total life cycle costs of capital facilities.
Voluntary Support
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report on Voluntary Support for the
month of April 1993, noting that gifts from individuals were up 16 percent from
the previous year. He reported that the listings of individual gifts would be submitted with the June report.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, North Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School and the College of Pharmacy....36,750
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
College of Pharmacy, and Institute of Gerontology __161,004
American Society of Hematology, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School.............7,500
Anonymous Donor
for the Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr., Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School  5....60,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.-. 14,750
Nancy Azzam, Golden Valley, Minnesota
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics..15,000
Daniel R. Balbach, Ann Arbor
155 shares of Citizens Utilities Class A common stock for orthodontics support in
the School of Dentistry.....5,231
C. R. Bard, Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah
for research in the Medical School.......40,000
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for golf course restoration in the Department of Athletics _,10,000
Valerie L. Bullen, Jackson
a Norwest Corporation Sinking Fund Debenture note for gifts pending designation
in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts and the School
of Education _4                                                           3.72,943
Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for research in the Medical School..10,000
Chevron U.S.A., Inc., Concord, California
for N.A.M.E. scholarships and the Minority Engineering Program in the College
of Engineering -8,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for arthritis research in the Medical School................     15,000
Chiron Corporation, Emeryville, California
for research in the College of Pharmacy....50,000
Edwin Comstock Charitable Trust, Holland
for undergraduate student aid.._.26,200
Ruth Comstock Trust
for undergraduate student aid _210,042
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for the Consumers Power Corporate Environmental Management Program in the
School of Business Administration._._)20,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School _..108,625
Daiichi Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Pharmacy._.....15,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School _.____.16,250
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
for the Peace Corps Program in the School of Education __..35,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for polymer research in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts __  19,521


305




May Meeting, 1993


Bruce A. Featherstone, Denver, Colorado
for the Kirkland and Ellis Professorship in the Law School  0....010,000
Foundry Educational Foundation, Des Plaines, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering _.55........5,00
Willard G. Fraumann, Deerfield, Illinois
120 shares of SPS Transaction Service, Inc., common stock for the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts __....-..6,188
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration and for support
in the College of Engineering ___................. 14,000
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for discretionary support in the School of Music.....12,000
Glenell Associates, Tampa, Florida
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics __.............20,000
Michael D. Gorge, West Bloomfield
for the Ben and Evelyn Gorge Endowment in Pediatrics in the Medical School.........10,000
Hubert W. Gouldthrope, Naples, Florida
100 shares of General Electric Corporation common stock for unrestricted support
of the College of Engineering..............           9,294
Hermelin Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
State of Israel Bond for the School of Business Administration __...............10,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for International Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies -__.........133,000
Honigman Foundation, Inc., Southfield
for the Honigman-Sempliner Awards and other support in the Law School.................80,858
Charles S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
100 shares of Intel Corporation common stock for the solar car project in the College
of  E ngineering..................................................................  11,688
Immunex Corporation, Seattle, Washington
for support in the College of Pharmacy...........5,000
Interpacific Group, Inc., San Francisco, California
for South and Southeast Asian Studies support in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts _....1.10,000
Norman Jacobson, Scarsdale, New York
for support in the Division of Kinesiology _...10,000
J. W. & Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support of the School of Business Administration _.40,000
Japan Foundation, New York, New York
for population planning and international health research, School of Public Health.........5,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School _.._.80,125
S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc., Racine, Wisconsin
for the solar car project in the College of Engineering _-10,000
Frank Norman Johnston Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan _.........    108,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........................8,000
Kidney Foundation of Canada, Montreal, Quebec
for research in the Medical School.__    ___..8,532
C. Douglas Kranwinkle, Los Angeles, California
for capital and other support in the Law School.....7,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School _-618,630
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for employee matching gifts..6,040
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering  e g.50,000
Robert P. Luciano, Madison, New Jersey
775 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock for the Robert P. Luciano
Endowment in the Law School _............-_44,078
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  11 11,250
John V. Manuelian, Belmont, Massachusetts
for Armenian Studies, the University of Michigan-Dearborn.8,564


306




May Meeting, 1993


March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School.._..........32,250
Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School n      n           s......11,600
Ralph L. McCormick, Palos Verdes Peninsula, California
for the Ralph L. McCormick Fund to participate in the University of Michigan
Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Aerospace Fund in the
College of Engineering                                                        10,000
Virginia M. McKeachie, Dexter
180 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock for the Center for Research on
Learning and Teaching and for psychology support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts _                       _......9,866
McNeil Consumer Products Company, Fort Washington, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School............             20,000
Mary Upjohn Meader Trust, Kalamazoo
for the Mary Upjohn Meader Fund in the Medical School................20,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research....... 300,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for gastroenterology research in the Medical School and for the Michigan Joint
Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the School of Business Administration and
College of Engineering...............54,000
Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School...16,600
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for employee matching gifts........................__..._.......13,001
Micro Technology, Anaheim, California
for research in the College of Engineering.__..........12,500
Helen M. Miller Trust
for the John P. Miller Performing Arts Scholarship in the School of Music _._62,763
Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for environmental research in the School of Public Health ___._.     _909,00
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research, University of Michigan Transportation Research
Institute _.19,9125
Anita M. Muir Trust, Ann Arbor
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center _.50,000
Alberto A. Munoz II, McAllen, Texas
for unrestricted support of the Law School ____.10,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School _   _     _      _     _     _      _.      9,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                   ~.7,500
Guinevere P. Nilsson Estate
for the Charles F. Nilsson Student Loan Fund in the College of Engineering _.  10,000
Oral-B Laboratories, Redwood City, California
for research in the School of Dentistry __~.._21,250
Jorge M. Perez, Coral Gables, Florida
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning ___ 10,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Scholars Program in the School of Natural Resources and Environment
and for arthritis research in the Medical School __~..188,152
Pfizer, Inc., Groton, Connecticut
for the Pfizer Pharmaceutics Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy __19,000
Price Waterhouse Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.__..........1.12,955
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the College of Engineering _~......         20,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts -_ -11,900
Mrs. Lyle C. Roll, Paradise Valley, Arizona
2,000 shares of Johnson & Johnson Corporation common stock for the Lyle C. Roll
Memorial Fund in the Medical School _~..80,250


307




May Meeting, 1993


Prudence L. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
160 shares of Norfolk Southern Corporation common stock for the Amnon
Rosenthal Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School  _..................................................10,100
Royal Design and Manufacturing, Inc., Madison Heights
for research in the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering....................................6,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................24,950
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 18,000
Irene R. Shreve Estate
for gerontology research in the Medical School......................................3......................  35,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................................... 4,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, New York, New York
for research  in the Medical School...............................................................................................   30,855
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint.......................................................5,081
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern Masonic
Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rite Funds in the Medical School................................................. 8,625
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts...............................................................................................................................   13,627
Texaco Philanthropic Foundation, Inc., White Plains, New York
for employee matching gifts..................................  6,000
Toyota Technical Center, U.S.A., Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Toyota Seminar Series in the College of Engineering.........................................................   10,000
John F. Ullrich, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Engineering, School of Music, Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies, Hill Auditorium, Museum of Art, and the University Library................12,600
Union Carbide Corporation Chemicals and Plastics Group, South Charleston, West Virginia
for support of the College of Engineering.................................................... 10,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................................................6,266
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......_..._.....................-.......-....31,990
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for employee matching gifts........................................................................25,013
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Sports Service Building and golf course restoration in the Department of
Athletics and for employee matching gifts.................................................................43,900
Ann T. Van Rosevelt Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology.......................8,333
Dorothy L. Walker Estate
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 8,881
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.__..................5,634
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................................12,000
Webb Foundation, La Jolla, California
for financial aid in the School of Business Administration...............................................10,000
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School............................................................58,348
R. J. Williams, Bloomfield Hills
for the R. Jamison Williams Professorship in the College of Engineering............50,000
Zenkel Foundation, New York, New York
for gifts pending designation in the Campaign for Michigan....................50,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Carl R. Anderson, Grand Rapids
two skulls with perfect occlusion for the Department of Orthodontics in the School of Dentistry
Richard Edwards, Ann Arbor
a glazed stoneware pot by Takashi Nakazato, 20th century for the Museum of Art
Carolyn Reading Hammer, Lexington, Kentucky
five works of art by Victor Hammer, mezzotints, ca. 1925-1930 for the Museum of Art


308




May Meeting, 1993


Paul Laughlin, Ann Arbor
photographs, "Perspective of Nudes" by Bill Brandt, and "Nude 1927" by Edward Weston for
the Museum of Art
John Vigen Der Manuelian, Belmont, Massachusetts
a rare book: Journey Through Asia Minor, Armenia and Koordistan in the Years 1813 and
1814, by John MacDonald Kinneir (London, 1818) for the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
Armenian Research Center
Michael Patrick O'Connor, Ann Arbor
two works of Chinese caligraphy by Chuang Yen and Hu Shih for the Museum of Art
Techware Systems, Richmond, British Columbia, Canada
two T2-68020 basic computer systems with accessories for the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science
Hiram and Cornelia Tindall, Ann Arbor
a framed Pierre Bonnard lithograph, "Le Coup et le Comptoir" and four unframed medieval
manuscript pages for the Museum of Art
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value, were received from the following donors:
Anderton L. Bentley, Jr, Ann Arbor      Valerie D. Meyer, Ann Arbor
W. Howard Bond, Ann Arbor               James I. Porter, Ann Arbor
Kathleen A. Czajkowski, South Lyon      Susan C. Skarsgard, Ann Arbor
J. A. Frost, Ann Arbor                  Charles Steedman, Ann Arbor
Gregory S. Klinger, Ann Arbor           Robert M. Stern, Ann Arbor
Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor                Scott Thibodeau, Detroit
Frank J. Massey III, Dearborn
Personnel Actions
Provost Whitaker highlighted the appointment of Paul Boylan, dean of the
School of Music, to the newly-created position of vice provost for the arts. He also
submitted the annual recommendations for promotion to the ranks of professor,
associate professor, and assistant professor, and responded to questions from the
Regents about tenure issues. Chancellors Renick and Jones noted the promotion
recommendations from their respective campuses. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents unanimously approved the following
personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective Septemer 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Paul R. Berman, Ph.D., Professor of Physics
Lennard A Fisk, Ph.D., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences and Chair,
Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, five-year term, July 1, 1993
Roderick J. A Little, Ph.D., Professor of Biostatistics and Chair, Department of Biostatistics,
five-year term
Veayan N. Nair, Ph.D., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts and Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, without tenure, College
of Engineering
R. Bruce Rutherford, PhD. Associate Professor of Dentistry, June 1, 1993
Norman Yoffee, PhD., Professor of Near Eastern Studies and Chair, Department of Near
Eastern Studies, five-year term, July 1, 1993
Chien-Fu J. Wu, Ph.D., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, without tenure, College
of Engineering


309




May Meeting, 1993


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1,1993, unless otherwise indicated
Gerald N. Glickman, DD.S., Associate Professor of Dentistry, June 1,1993
Kamalesh Kumar, PhD., Associate Professor of Business Administration, UM-Dearborn
Kevin E. Korsyn, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Music (Theory)
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF
PROFESSOR, ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
AND ASSISTANT PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1993
School of Art
Kenneth W. Baird, from Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, to Professor of Art, with tenure
School of Business Administration
Elazar Berkovitch from Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Finance, with tenure
Gautam Kaul, from Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, to Professor of Finance, with
tenure
William G. Mitchell, from Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy to Associate Professor of
Corporate Strategy, without tenure
Priscilla S. Rogers, from Assistant Professor of Business Communication to Associate Professor
of Business Communication, with tenure
Cindy A. Schipani, from Assistant Professor of Business Law to Associate Professor of Business
Law, with tenure
H. Nejat Seyhun, from Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, to Professor of Finance, with
tenure
Douglas J. Skinner, from Assistant Professor of Accounting to Associate Professor of Accounting,
without tenure
David W. Wright, from Assistant Professor of Accounting to Associate Professor of Accounting,
with tenure
Bernard Y. Yeung, from Assistant Professor of International Business to Associate Professor of
International Business, without tenure
Youjae Yi, from Assistant Professor of Marketing to Associate Professor of Marketing, with
tenure
School of Education
Joseph Krajcik, from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, with
tenure
Annemarie Palincsar, from Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, to Professor of
Education, with tenure
Paul Pintrich, from Assistant Professor of Education to Associate Professor of Education, with
tenure
College of Enineerin
Michael Atzmon, from Assistant Professor of Nuclear Engineering to Associate Professor of
Nuclear Engineering, with tenure
John W. Holmes, from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics to
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
J. Wayne Jones, from Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure
Sridhar Kota, from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics to
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Victor C. Li, from Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure
Khalil Najafi, from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science to
Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure


310




May Meeting, 1993


Matthew O'Donnell, from Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without
tenure, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Noel C. Perkins, from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics to
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Kenneth G. Powell, from Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering to Associate Professor of
Aerospace Engineering, with tenure
William B. Ribbens, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Demosthenis Teneketzis, from Associate Professor of Eectrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure
Toby Teorey, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Law School
Avery Kate, from Assistant Professor of Law to Professor of Law, with tenure
Richard H. Pildes, from Assistant Professor of Law to Professor of Law, with tenure
College of Lierture. Science, and the Arts
Elizabeth S. Anderson, from Assistant Professor of Philosophy to Associate Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure
David E. Barrett, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
Patrice S. Beddor, from Assistant Professor of Linguistics to Associate Professor of Linguistics,
with tenure
Celeste Brusati, from Associate Professor of History of Art, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of History of Art, with tenure
Steven N. Dworkin, from Associate Professor of Romance Linguistics, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, to Professor of Romance Linguistics, with tenure, and
Professor of Linguistics, with tenure
Thomas E. Fricke, from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure
Michael C. Gurnis, from Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure
Robert W. Keener, from Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, to Professor of Statistics,
with tenure
Miles Kimball, from Assistant Professor of Economics to Associate Professor of Economics, with
tenure
Stephen Lee, from Assistant Professor of Chemistry to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with
tenure
Kyger C. Lohmann, from Associate Professor of Geology and Mineralogy, with tenure, to
Professor of Geology and Mineralo  with tenure
Brinldey Messick, from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure
John C. Mitani, from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure
Sheryl L. Olson, from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology,
with tenure
Bradford G. Orr, from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, with
tenure
John M. O'Shea, from Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, to Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure
Vincent E. Price, from Assistant Professor of Communication to Associate Professor of
Communication, with tenure
Hitomi Tonomura, from Assistant Professor of History to Associate Professor of History, with
tenure
Michael W. Traugott, from Professor of Communication, without tenure, to Professor of
Communication, with tenure
Michael I. Weinstein, from Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, to Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure
Ralph G. Williams, from Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of English, with
tenure, to Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of English, with tenure


311




May Meeting, 1993


Medical School
Richard A. Altschuler, from Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, to
Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
Robert I- Beekman III, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with
tenure, to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
William D. Belville, from Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, to Associate Professor
of Surgery, with tenure
Steven J. Bernstein, from Instructor of Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine
David A Bloom, from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor of Surgery, with
tenure
Josephine P. Briggs, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Physiology, without tenure, to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
and Professor of Physiology, without tenure
Timothy E. Bunchman, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to
Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Sally A Camper, from Assistant Professor of Human Genetics to Associate Professor of Human
Genetics, with tenure
James E. Carpenter, from Instructor in Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery
Philip N. Cascade, from Associate Professor of Radiology, without tenure, to Associate Professor
of Radiology, with tenure
Heang-Ping Chan, from Associate Professor of Radiological Sciences, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Radiological Sciences, with tenure
Wayne T. Cornblath, from Instructor in Ophthalmology and Instructor in Neurology to
Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Assistant Professor of Neurology
Gary J. Faerber, from Instructor in Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery
William P. Fay, from Instructor in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Carol M. Foster, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Associate
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Isaac R. Francis, from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Professor of Radiology,
with tenure
Kirk A. Frey, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of
Neurology to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Neurology, without tenure
David Ginsburg, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, to Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure, and Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure
Jerome L. Gorski, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Assistant Professor of Human Genetics to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without
tenure
Thomas E. Gribbin, from Instructor in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine
William L. Hasler, from Instructor in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine
Joseph Holoshitz, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Chen-Hsing Hsu, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Raymond J. Hutchinson, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
with tenure, to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
Kenneth A Jamerson, from Instructor in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine
Mark S. Kaminski, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Steven J. Katz, from Instructor in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Paul R. Kileny, from Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, to Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
Jonathan J. Langberg, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Flavian M. Lupinetti, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with
tenure


312




May Meeting, 1993


Mary K Martel, from Instructor in Radiation Physics to Assistant Professor of Radiation Physics
Paul S. Meltzer, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology,
without tenure
Louis M. Messina, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with
tenure
Gary J. Nabel, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, to Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure, and Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure
Randolph M. Nesse, from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, to Professor of
Psychiatry, with tenure
Stephen M. Papadopoulos, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery,
with tenure
Steven E. Raper, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with
tenure
Barbara D. Reed, from Assistant Professor of Family Practice to Associate Professor of Family
Practice, with tenure
James A Roberts, from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, to
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Peter L. Roberson, from Assistant Professor of Radiation Physics to Associate Professor of
Radiation Physics, without tenure
Mark S. Roth, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
Thomas L. Schwenk, from Associate Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, to Professor of
Family Practice, with tenure
Neil T. Shepard, from Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology to Associate Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
Vernon K Sondak, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with
tenure
Robert M. Strieter, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Alan R. Tait, from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology to Associate Professor of
Anesthesiology, with tenure
Rajiv Tandon, from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with
tenure
Margaret S. Terpenning, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Luke Y. Tsai, from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, to Professor of Psychiatry, with
tenure, and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure
Laurence A Turka, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Michael D. Uhler, from Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry to Associate Professor of
Biological Chemistry, with tenure
Joyce A Wahr, from Instructor in Anesthesiology to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology
Jeffrey S. Warren, from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology,
with tenure
Fredric M. Wolf, from Associate Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education, with tenure, to Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education, with tenure
James 0. Woolliscroft, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor
of Internal Medicine, with tenure
School of Music
Erling B. Bengtsson, from Professor of Music (Cello), without tenure, to Professor of Music
(Cello) with tenure
Edward W. Sarath, from Assistant Professor of Music (Improvisation and Jazz Studies) to
Associate Professor of Music (Improvisation and Jazz Studies), with tenure
Stephen B. Shipps, from Associate Professor of Music (Violin), without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Music (Violin), with tenure


313




May Meeting, 1993


School of Naturl Resoure and Environment
Paul Mohai, from Assistant Professor of Natural Resources to Associate Professor of Natural
Resources, with tenure
Terry L. Root, from Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, and Assistant Professor of Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, to Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, and Associate Professor of Biology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Michael J. Wiley, from Assistant Professor of Natural Resources to Associate Professor of
Natural Resources, with tenure
CoUege of Pharmacy
Sally K Guthrie, from Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, and Assistant
Professor of Pharmacy, Department of Psychiatry, Medical School, to Associate Professor
of Pharmacy, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, and Assistant Professor of Pharmacy,
Department of Psychiatry, Medical School
School of Public Health
Michael L. Boehnke, from Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, to Professor of
Biostatistics, with tenure
Rita L. Caruso, from Assistant Professor of Toxicology to Associate Professor of Toxicology, with
tenure
Brant E. Fries, from Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure,
to Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure
Arline T. Geronimus, from Assistant Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration to
Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administration, with tenure
Stephen S. Mick, from Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with
tenure, to Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure
J. William Thomas, from Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with
tenure, to Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure
School of Social Work
Sandra K. Danziger, from Assistant Professor of Social Work to Associate Professor of Social
Work, with tenure
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Elaine Clark, from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, to Professor of History, with
tenure
Constance Flanagan, from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of
Psychology, with tenure
John A Gillespie, from Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure
Vaman M. Naik, from Assistant Professor of Physics to Associate Professor of Physics, with
tenure
Emily Spinelli, from Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, to Professor of Spanish, with
tenure
UM-Dearborn School of Enineerin
John G. Cherng, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
Roberto R. Kampfner, from Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, without
tenure, to Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure
Adnan K. Shaout, from Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering to Associate
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure
UM-Fint College of Arts and Sciences
Kathleen H. Lavoie, from Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, to Professor of Biology,
with tenure
George F. Lord III, from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology,
with tenure
Leslie P. Moch, from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, to Professor of History, with
tenure
Tevfik F. Nas, from Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, to Professor of Economics,
with tenure


314




May Meeting, 1993


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Clarence E. Coleman, Jr., Associate Professor of Music (Voice) and Assistant Dean for Minority
Affairs, School of Music, reappointed Assistant Dean for Minority Affairs, School of Music,
five-year term, September 1, 1993
Vern Terpstra, Professor Emeritus of Business Administration, reappointed to active status,
three-month term, May 1, 1993
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL PROFESSORS AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
Paul C. Boylan, Dean, School of Music, and Professor of Music, with tenure, also appointed Vice
Provost for the Arts, five-year term
Robert F. Dernberger, from Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Interim Director, Center
for Chinese Studies, to Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Director, Center for
Chinese Studies, one-year term
Eve J. Higginbotham, Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, also appointed
Assistant Dean for Faculty Affairs, Medical School, May 1, 1993
Shuen-fu Lin, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed
Director, Center for Chinese Studies three-year term, July 1, 1994
Kristine A Siefert, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, also appointed Assistant
Dean for Research, School of Social Work, two-year term
The following committee appointments were approved:
Colege of Literature. Science, and the Arts Executie Committee
Stephen Easter, three-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Jens C. Zorn, term expired
Domna Stanton, three-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Martha J. Vicinus, term expired
College of Pharmacy Ecutive Committee
Jennifer B. Dressman, three-year term ending June 30, 1996, vice Gordon L. Flynn, term expired
School of Natural Resoues and Environment Executive Committee
Terry Brown, two-year term ending May 31, 1995, vice Rachel Kaplan, term expired
Steven Yaffee, two-year term ending May 31, 1995, to succeed himself
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Ruth Dunkle, three-year term ending August 31, 1996, vice Charles Garvin, term expired
Edith Lewis, three-year term ending August 31,1996, vice Brett Seabury, term expired
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
James R. Beuche, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
C. E. Frazer Clark, Jr., one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Bly A Coring, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Thomas N. Cross, one-year term ending September 30,1993
Duane N. Diedrich, one-year term ending September 30,1993
Stephen Hamp, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Harlan Hatcher, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Walter Hayes, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Peter N. Heydon, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Sally Kennedy one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Thomas Kingsley, one-year term ending September 30,1993
James M. Klancnik, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Philip P. Mason, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Richard A Pohrt, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Jacob M. Price, one-year term ending September 30, 1993


315




May Meeting, 1993


Harold T. Shapiro, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Elizabeth Stranahan, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Bradley M. Thompson, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
Cleveland Thurber, Jr., one-year term ending September 30, 1993
David Upton, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
John D. Wheeler, one-year term ending September 30, 1993
UM-Derborn Collee of Art. Science. and Letters Eecutie Committee
Linda E. Fisher three-year term ending Augus 31, 1996, vice Kazem Mostafapour, term expired
Edward M. Sayles, three-year term ending August 31,1996, vice Elton Higgs, term expired
Extension of Leave of Absence. The Regents approved an extension of
the leave of absence for Michael M. Chen, from August 31, 1992, to August 31,
1993.
Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in Law. The Regents approved the establishment of the Kirkland & Ellis Professorship in Law, effective May 1, 1993.
Dow   Corning Assistant Professor of Chemistry. The Regents
approved the appointment of Christine E. Evans as the Dow Coring Assistant
Professor of Chemistry, for a three-year term effective September 1, 1993.
Assistant Dean of Student and Multicultural Affairs, School of
Social Work. The Regents approved the appointment of Clarita Mays as
assistant dean of student and multicultural affairs in the School of Social Work,
for a three-year term effective July 1, 1993.
Associate Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters The Regents approved the establishment of an additional associate dean
position in the UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, effective May
7, 1993.
Accusations against Professor David Goldberg. Regent Baker raised
the issue of accusations of racial and sexual harassment that have been made by
some students in his Sociology 510 class (statistics) regarding Professor Goldberg. Regent Baker noted that he does not know Professor Goldberg, but had
been apprised of the charges, his responses to them, and the response by the Department of Sociology, by an independent party.
Regent Baker observed that Professor Goldberg is known to be a confrontational, aggressive teacher who challenges his students and makes them think.
Regent Baker believes that the charges have more to do with his teaching style,
rather than his actually being a racist or a sexual harasser. After the charges
were made, the department's initial response was to remove Professor Goldberg
from teaching Sociology 510; it was later decided to add another section of the
class, so that one would be taught by Professor Goldberg, and the other to be
taught by someone else.
Regent Baker pointed out that the issue in this case, as noted by Professor
Carl Cohen in a letter published in the University Record, is the development of
an atmosphere at the University that tends to inhibit teachers in their classrooms. He believes that there ought to be a mechanism that protects professors


316




May Meeting, 1993


in such instances, as neither the department, the College of LS&A, nor the administration came to Professor Goldberg's defense. Regent Baker noted that
there is a chance that he did not merit defending, but that did not seem to be the
case. He concluded that University professors' careers should not be damaged
due to untrue accusations that have been made against them.
Provost Whitaker responded that this was the first time Professor Goldberg
had taught this class in several years, and that although concerns had been
raised in the anonymous letter, other concerns had been raised earlier about the
quality of his teaching. He noted that the department had tried to be sensitive to
both the academic freedom issues and the quality of the teaching for the students, as the course in question is a required course for sociology graduate students. Professor Goldberg did complete the term teaching the course, and two
sections will be offered next year. He stated that the issue had been dealt with at
the departmental level, and that although he had read all of the material and had
been apprised of all of the actions associated with it, he had not talked directly to
either Professor Goldberg or the department chair.
Regent Baker responded that once such accusations are raised, the damage
to the individual has been done, whether or not the accusations end up being
true. He noted that there ought to be a mechanism that will set the record
straight.
Regent Power observed that it would be helpful if the issues raised by this
incident could be presented as a policy discussion. He noted that he had been approached by two senior faculty members at the University who had expressed
sadness at the University's unwillingness to support and sustain faculty members who had been the subject of certain kinds of accusations. Regent Power
stated that the incident described by Regent Baker raises a legitimate policy
question that deserves some scrutiny. He requested that the materials surrounding this incident be assembled for the purposes of framing a discussion of the
larger policy issues associated with the questions it raises.
Provost Whitaker noted that the Senate Assembly was currently wrestling
with academic freedom concerns in the context of the harassment policy. Following further comments, it was agreed that a discussion would be planned along
the lines suggested by Regent Power and Regent Baker.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
CHANGES TO
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS,
JOINT APPOINTMENTS, OR TRANSFERS OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Business Administration
Shannon W. Anderson, from Lecturer in Accounting to Assistant Professor of Accounting,
September 1, 1993 (previously reported as April 1, 1993)


317




May Meeting, 1993


Dickran A Kazarian, from Lecturer in Business Administration to Assistant Professor of
Finance and Real Estate, September 1, 1993 (previously reported as February 1, 1993)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1993, unless otherwise indicated
School of Information and Library Studies
Gwendolyn S. Cruzat, Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure
College of Literature. Science. and the Arts
Joseph L. Blotner, Professor of English, with tenure
Stephen B. Fahy, Assistant Professor of Physics
Daniela Gobetti, Assistant Professor of Political Science
John L. Harer, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Rombout Hoogerbeets, Assistant Professor of Physics
Paul Knochel, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Mustansir Mir, Assistant Professor of Near Eastern Studies
Lorraine Nadelman, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Michelle D. Perry, Assistant Professor of Psychology
Roy Pierce, Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Dhananjay B. Puranik, Lecturer I in Chemistry, December 31, 1992
Medical School
Ian H. Lewis, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology, March 31, 1993
Andrew W. Walter, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, March 31, 1993
Joseph A Walton, Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, April 30, 1993
Richard W. Weber, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, May 10, 1993
School of Nursing
Dorothy Donabedian, Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Theresa S. Foley, Assistant Professor of Nursing
Provost and Vice President for Ademic Affairs
Douglas R. Woolley, Interim University Registrar, April 30,1993
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Alan G. Billings, professor of theatre in the School of Music, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 1993.
Born in Atlanta, Georgia, Professor Billings was educated at the University
of Georgia (B.F.A, 1955), Carnegie-Mellon University (M.F.A, 1958), and the
University of Illinois (PLhD., 1967). He taught at the University of Louisville
from  1958-60, the University of Delaware from    1960-63, and the University of
Illinois from  1963-66 before joining the University of Michigan faculty as a
lecturer in 1966. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1967, associate professor in 1970, and professor in 1976. During 1990, he served as interim chair of
the Department of Theatre.
Professor Billings has been the designer for more than 150 staged productions both in connection with his academic appointment and for regional opera
and theater companies. He has also served as a theater consultant in the restoration of theaters and opera houses in Michigan, Ohio, and South Carolina. The
author of several articles, book chapters, and reviews, Professor Billings has also


318




May Meeting, 1993


presented papers for the American Theater Association and the Association for
Theater in Higher Education. He is a member of the Association for Theater in
Higher Education and of the United States Institute for Theater Technology.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Alan G. Billings
Professor Emeritus of Theatre.
Joseph L. Blotner, professor of English, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1993, after a highly productive career as scholar and teacher.
A native of New Jersey, Joseph Blotner received his B.A degree from Drew
University, his M.A degree from Northwestern University, and his PhD. degree
from the University of Pennsylvania After his first two years at an undergraduate at Drew, he served in the United States Air Corps from 1943-45, rising to the
rank of Second Lieutenant in the Eighth Air Force. He taught at the University
of Pennsylvania, the University of Idaho, the University of Virginia, and North
Carolina at Chapel Hill before joining the faculty of the University of Michigan as
professor of English in 1972. During his tenure at Michigan, Professor Blotner
was a senior fellow in the Michigan Society of Fellows from 1979-83. He received
the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1990. He has also received
many honors and awards outside the University, including two Guggenheims
and grants or fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the
American Council of Learned Societies, and the Rockefeller Foundation. He was
appointed the First William Faulkner Lecturer at the University of Mississippi in
1977. He has been a Fulbright Lecturer in American Literature at the University
of Copenhagen, and visiting professor at the University of Arizona and the University of Rome.
Professor Blotner has published widely as a critic, biographer, and editor.
He is known all over the world as the authorized biographer of William Faulkner. He has lectured widely in the United States and Europe on Faulkner's life
and writings, as well as on other topics in American literature. His landmark biography of Faulkner was published by Random House in 1974 and published
again in a revised and condensed version in 1985. Blotner has also been a leading
editor of Faulkner's writings. He has edited Faulkner's letters, poems, manuscripts, and uncollected stories and is the general editor for Faulkner's novels in
the Library of American Literature. In addition, he has written books on the fiction of J. D. Salinger (1959) and on the modern American political novel (1966).
Currently, he is engaged in preparing and writing a biography of Robert Penn
Warren. Before his death in 1989, Warren made Joseph Blotner his authorized
biographer and gave him full access to his papers and correspondence. The biography is scheduled for publication by Random House in December 1993.
Professor Blotner has guided the work of many graduate students in American literature and is known for the scrupulous precision of his teaching of undergraduates, especially in lecture courses on such subjects as the American novel
and the writings of William Faulkner. He has been an outstanding citizen of the
University, serving on such important bodies as the College Executive Committee.
The Regents now honor this distinguished scholar, teacher, and educator by
naming Joseph L. Blotner Professor Emeritus of English.


319




May Meeting, 1993


Janice A. Clark, associate professor of music (music education) in the
School of Music and lecturer in education in the School of Education, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1993.
Professor Clark was born and raised in Canton, Ohio, where she was active
in public school music programs. She continued her studies at Westminster
Choir College in Princeton, New Jersey, where she graduated with a B.M. degree
in 1951. She taught music at the Charles Ellis School for Girls in Pennsylvania
from 1951-54; concurrently, she served as the organist-choir director at Marple
Presbyterian Church in Bromall, Pennsylvania. In 1954, Professor Clark journeyed west to enroll as a graduate student at the University of Michigan, where
she received the M.Mus. degree in 1956. In 1955, she began an association with
the Dixboro Methodist Church as organist (later director of music) that extends
to the present. Following completion of her graduate studies, Professor Clark became a consultant in elementary vocal music for the Livonia Public Schools. She
was appointed to the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer (music education) in 1958, was promoted to assistant professor in 1962, and to associate professor in 1969.
An active participant in music educators' associations at state and national
levels, Professor Clark has been especially energetic as a traveler to International
Society of Music Education meetings in Perth (1974), Montreux (1976), Warsaw
(1980), and Bristol (1982).
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Janice A. Clark Associate Professor Emeritus of Music.
Gwendolyn S. Cruzat, professor of information and library studies in the
School of Information and Library Studies, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1993.
Professor Cruzat joined the School of Information and Library Studies faculty as a lecturer in 1970. She was promoted to assistant professor in 1971, associate professor in 1976, and to professor in 1979. She holds a B.A degree in
mathematics from Fisk University, an M.S. degree in Library Science from Atlanta University, and a PhD. degree in higher education/information science
from Wayne State University.
Professor Cruzat is internationally known for her teaching in medical information and organization, U.S. government information and education for information and library studies. She has also served on numerous University
committees, including the Commission for Women, the Advisory Committee for
State Relations, and the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics. She was a
recipient of the Distinguished Service Award for her outstanding contributions to
the University and the scholarly community at large and was elected a directorat-large of the UM Alumni Association. Professor Cruzat also has been a visiting
professor at several universities, including special assignments in Hawaii, Puerto
Rico, and Brazil and received a Distinguished Alumni Award from Atlanta University's School of Library and Information Studies.
Professor Cruzat's teaching ability was honored in 1979 when she received
the Janet Doe Lecturer Award from the Medical Library Association and again in
1980 when she was named a regent of the National Library of Medicine. In addition, Professor Cruzat has served on advisory committees and boards and as


320




May Meeting, 1993


consultant to both private and government agencies which include the U.S. Department of Education, the National Library of Medicine, the Library of Congress, and the Institute for Scientific Information.
During Professor Cruzat's tenure, she also devoted a great deal of energy to
University of Michigan athletics. While a member of the Advisory Committee on
Recreation and Club Sports, Professor Cruzat chaired a subcommittee that developed the Central and North Campus recreation facilities, regarded as two of the
best in the country serving students, faculty, and staff. She served on the athletic
board from 1973-76 and 1981-90. During that time, she served as UM Faculty
Representative to the Big Ten Conference and the NCAA
In view of her many accomplishments, the Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Gwendolyn S. Cruzat Professor Emeritus of Information and Library Studies.
Dorothy Donabedian, professor of nursing, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1993, following 27 years of service to the University of Michigan.
A native of Beirut, Lebanon, Professor Donabedian earned her B.S.N. degree from the American University of Beirut in 1943, her M.S.N. degree from
Boston University in 1955, and her M.P.H. degree from the University of Michigan in 1966. She joined the University of Michigan School of Nursing faculty as
an instructor in 1966, and was promoted to assistant professor in 1969, associate
professor in 1972, and professor in 1977.
Early in her tenure, Professor Donabedian identified three areas of need in
the school's instructional programs: utilization of computer-assisted learning
technologies; development of a freestanding nursing practice to provide
community-based educational experiences for undergraduate students; and incorporation of material on the health and welfare systems into the curricula
Over the next two decades, she focused on achieving each of these visionary
goals.
Well before computers became common in the classroom, Professor Donabedian developed two computer exercises for undergraduate nursing students. Regarded as a significant advance in nursing education, her work was published in
a now-classic article in Nursing Outlook, and over 50 copies of the computer
exercises have been sold.
In 1973, Professor Donabedian initiated an unconventional setting for the
practice of community health nursing. Having provided clinical learning experiences for over 300 senior nursing students, this program is recognized nationally
as an excellent teahing-learning model for nursing students. This work was
published and continues to be cited as an exemplar for nontraditional approaches
to undergraduate nursing education. Professor Donabedian also developed a
module on the health and welfare systems that continues to be used in the instruction of students at the University of Michigan and Wayne State University.
Each of these innovations has provided the faculty with a vision of what is possible.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Dorothy Donabedian Professor Emeritus of Nursing.


321




May Meeting, 1993


Frances A. arkin, associate professor of nutrition in the Department of
Community Health Programs, School of Public Health, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1993.
After receiving her B.S. degree from The Ohio State University in 1952, Professor Larkin worked as a dietitian at Duke University from 1952-54 and at St.
Luke's Hospital in Cleveland from 1954-56. She was a fellow at the Mayo Clinic
from 1956-57, and then went to the University of Minnesota, where she received
her M.S. degree in 1958. She served as an assistant professor at California State
College in Long Beach from 1958-61 and as an advisor to the College of Home
Economics in Dacca, East Pakistan, from 1961-64. After completing her Ph.D.
degree at Cornell University in 1968, Professor Larkin joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan as an assistant professor of nutrition. She was promoted
to associate professor in 1972.
Professor Larkin's professional career was notable for her service in developing countries, which reflected her constant concern for food adequacy in the
Third World. She has conducted surveys among groups at nutritional risk in
Central America, Bangladesh, Nepal, and in several African countries, including
Ghana, which was the site of her doctoral dissertation research.
Professor Larkin served as director of the Human Nutrition Program in the
School of Public Health for two years, and as assistant dean for curriculum for
eight years. Active in her field, she has chaired the Faculties of Graduate Programs in Public Health Nutrition and the nutrition section of the Michigan Public Health Association, and served as editor of the Journal of the American
Dietetic Association. Professor Larkin's expertise in methods of measuring dietary intake made her a valuable team member for a number of diet-related research studies. Her ability to complete her tasks on time, her expertise in getting
along with other people, and her willingness to collaborate in a team setting
made Professor Larkin a popular member of several research teams in major studies throughout her career. An excellent teacher, Professor Larkin was very popular among her students, always managing to find time for individual
consultation when needed.
In recognition of her dedicated service, the Regents now salute this faculty
member by naming Frances A Larkin Associate Professor Emeritus of Nutrition.
Lorraine Nadelman, associate professor of psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1993.
Professor Nadelman received her B.A and Ph.D. degrees in psychology from
New York University in 1945 and 1953, respectively. From 1951-55, she served
as an assistant professor at Mount Holyoke College. In 1963, she joined the faculty at the University of Michigan as a lecturer and was promoted to associate professor in 1969.
Professor Nadelman has been in the field some four decades. She has been a
devoted and strikingly successful undergraduate teacher, both in a small liberal
arts college and here in a larger research university context. Whether in large lecture courses or in multi-section hands-on advanced laboratory sections, she has
truly been a "master teacher": utterly dedicated, energetic, handsomely organized, innovative, and endlessly capable of individualizing instruction. She has


322




May Meeting, 1993


inspired scores of students on to careers in psychology. Especially noteworthy is
the sharing of her teaching expertise in her widely respected book Research
Manual in Child Development, and while less visible, there are a substantial
number of graduate students whose later research focus on siblings was derived
from Professor Nadelman's earlier work and graduate program.
The department and the college are especially indebted to her for the years
of stellar performance at every level of service. Lorraine Nadelman has been the
prototypical good citizen playing an active role in numerous area, departmental,
college, and University committees. She has also acted as a representative of
serious developmental psychology and as its ambassador to other units of the
University and to the local community. Multiple pages could be filled with the list
of schools, daycare centers, religious groups, camps, dubs, service organizations,
museums, senior citizens groups, and PTOs in Ann Arbor and surrounding communities to whom she has given freely of her time and energies.
The Regents now salute this devoted teacher and scholar for her dedicated
service to the department, the University, and the community by naming Lorraine Nadelman Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology.
Roy Pierce, professor of political science in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and faculty associate in the Center for Political Studies, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1993, after a career at the University
of Michigan that has lasted for 37 years.
Born in New York City, Professor Pierce earned his B.A, M.A, and Ph.D.
degrees in 1947, 1948, and 1950, respectively, from Cornell University. He interrupted his graduate training to serve as an auditor at the Institut d'Etudes Politiques in Paris in 1949. Before joining the Michigan faculty, he taught at Smith
College. From 1952-53, he served as director for the Junior Year in International
Studies in Geneva, Switzerland. He has had visiting appointments in France as a
Fulbright Lecturer in Nice, at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales
in Paris, and has been a visitor at the University of Oslo, Norway.
Professor Pierce has made important contributions to our understanding of
comparative politics across a range of topics from French political theorists to
French political institutions to the spatial location of parties and electorates on
the Left-Right dimension. His landmark analysis of representation in France,
Political Representation in France, co-authored with Phil Converse, won the
Woodrow Wilson prize in 1987. This is the discipline's top prize. The work delves
deeply into the political orientations of mass publics and political elites, as well as
the linkages between them. He has published widely in the major political science
journals on elections and public opinion France.
Professor Pierce has trained a large number of scholars in the area of Western European and comparative politics and has served graduate students well
and often as director of graduate studies and placement officer in the Department of Political Science. He has been a devoted and engaged teacher of undergraduates.
The Regents now salute this distinguished political scientist for his dedicated service by naming Roy Pierce Professor Emeritus of Political Science.


323




May Meeting, 1993


Joseph L. Ullman, professor of mathematics, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1993, after a productive career as a teacher and researcher.
Born in Buffalo, New York, Professor Ullman received his B.A degree from
the University of Buffalo in 1942. His graduate study was interrupted by his service in the U.S. Army during World War II as an instructor of mathematics at
army schools in Czechoslovakia and Biarritz, France. He received his Ph.D. degree from Stanford University in 1949.
Professor Ullman joined the University of Michigan as an instructor in
mathematics in 1949. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1954, associate
professor in 1961, and professor in 1966. During 1970-71, he served as associate
chair for graduate students, and for many years he was the chair of the Master's
Committee in the Department of Mathematics.
Professor Ullman's area of research was in classical analysis, with specific
focus on approximation theory. His papers on the asymptotic behavior of orthogonal polynomials with arbitrary measures drew international attention. Altogether, he published forty-six research papers and directed eight doctoral theses.
But above all, Professor Ullman is valued by his colleagues for his love of mathematical inquiry, his encyclopedic knowledge of classical analysis, and his willingness to share this knowledge.
The Regents now salute this mathematician for his dedicated service by
naming Joseph L. Ullman Professor Emeritus of Mathematics.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Refinancing of $14,140,000 Construction Projects Student Fee Bonds,
Series 1986 and Construction and Refunding Student Fee Bonds,
Series 1987
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of a resolution that authorizes the vice president
and chief financial officer to issue the Student Fee Refunding Bonds, Series 1993
and:
1. together with the underwriter, to develop the terms and legal
documentation for the bonds, and to prepare, circulate, and execute preliminary and final official statements describing the
bonds, the University, and its affirs; and
2. to apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and
3.  to obtain a final proposal for the bonds, including price and interest rate, negotiate, execute, and deliver the bond purchase agreement with the underwriters, a trust indenture with a trustee to be
selected, an escrow agreement with an escrow agent to be selected,
and related documentation setting forth the terms of the bonds
and the sale and delivery thereof, and to execute and deliver the
bonds, all within the limitations of the resolution.
The text of this resolution appears as Appendix A (page 331).


324




May Meeting, 1993


Refinancing of Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1990
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of a resolution that authorizes the vice president
and chief financial officer to issue the Hospital Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
1993 and:
1. together with the underwriter, to develop the terms and legal
documentation for the bonds, and to prepare, circulate, and execute preliminary and final official statements describing the
bonds, the University, and its affairs; and
2. to apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and
3. to obtain a final proposal for the bonds, including price and interest rate, negotiate, execute, and deliver the bond purchase agreement with the underwriters, a trust indenture with a trustee to be
selected, an escrow agreement with an escrow agent to be selected,
and related documentation setting forth the terms of the bonds
and the sale and delivery thereof, and to execute and deliver the
bonds, all within the limitations of the resolution.
The text of this resolution appears as Appendix B (page 351).
Refinancing of $6,285,000 of Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds,
Series 1987
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent McGowan the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of a resolution that authorizes the vice president
and chief financial officer to issue the Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Refunding
Bonds, Series 1993 and:
1. together with the underwriter, to develop the terms and legal
documentation for the bonds, and to prepare, circulate, and execute preliminary and final official statements describing the
bonds, the University, and its affairs; and
2. to apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and
3. to obtain a final proposal for the bonds, including price and interest rate, negotiate, execute, and deliver the bond purchase
agreement with the underwriters, a trust indenture with a trustee
to be selected, an escrow agreement with an escrow agent to be selected, and related documentation setting forth the terms of the
bonds and the sale and delivery thereof, and to execute and deliver
the bonds, all within the limitations of the resolution.
The text of this resolution appears as Appendix C (page 355).


325




May Meeting, 1993


Outstanding University Indebtedness
The Regents received schedules providing information on outstanding University indebtedness as of April 1, 1993.
Venture Capital
Regent Power moved, Regent Deitch seconded, and all seven Regents present unanimously approved a commitment of $10 million of the University Endowment Fund to Endowment Venture Partners II, L.P. Because of Vice
President Womack's involvement with       two   closely-related  organizations
(Endowment Advisors and Fairfield Partners, Inc.), this agreement falls under
the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. Vice President Womack reported that he is not in any way benefiting personally from the proposed investment. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the contracts will be the University of Michigan and Endowment
Venture Partners II, L.P.
2.   Terms of the contracts (partnership agreements) are as follows:
The duration of the contract with Endowment Venture Partners, L.P. will be
12 years, subject to two 2-year extensions at the discretion of the general partner pursuant to the provisions of the partnership agreement.
Financial consideration between the parties is that the partnership will invest
$10 million of University Endowment Fund assets.
Vice President Womack or a University representative will attend meetings of
the boards and related committees
3.  Vice President Womack has no pecuniary interest in these contracts. For Endowment Venture Partners II, L.P., Fairfield Partners will receive 1.5 percent
of net income and profits, two-thirds of which it will pay to Endowment Advisers as compensation for personnel and administrative support. Endowment Advisers has also entered into an agreement with Endowment Venture Partners
II, L.P. to act as placement agent for the sale of limited partnership interests in
exchange for reimbursement of expenses, estimated to total $15,000.
Cancer and Geriatrics Centers (C&GC) Project; North Entrance Parking Structure (NEPS) Project
Regent Baker moved approval of the budget, submission of Certificate of
Need (CoN) applications to the Michigan Department of Public Health, authorization for soliciting bids and awarding a construction contract for the C&GC
Project and portions of the NEPS Project, as described in the Regents Communication, providing the contract value is within the approved budget and CoN
approvals are granted Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Fuller Road Bridge Across the Huron River
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved granting of roadway and sewer easements for the Fuller
Road bridge project, as described in the Regents Communication.


326




May Meeting, 1993


Chesterfield Township, Macomb County Property
Regent Power moved, Regent McGowan seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, reconveyance of the title to vacant land in Chesterfield Township, Macomb County to the donor.
Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities
Vice President Hartford submitted a quarterly report on the implementation of the Statement of Student Rights and Responsibilities. Regent Deitch requested that the next report include case summaries to create a better
understanding of the kinds of issues that are being handled under the policy.
Vice President Hartford responded that she would do that.
New   Degree Program, University of Michigan-Dearborn               School of
Education
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program in the UM-Dearbom           School of
Education, entitled "Master of Education in Special Education/Learning Disabilities".
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a revision of the Clements Library Associates Authorization Document changing the additional number of members from the general
membership from 20 to 27. The revised authorization document is as follows:
Clements Library Associates Authorization Document
Membership: Membership in the Clements Libray Associates shall be extedd
so persons who indicate their interest in the purposes of the organization by making
such annual contribution as shall be determined by the Board of Governors.
Board of Governors The direction of the Clements Library Associates shall be
entrusted to a Board of Governors consisting of the director of the Clements Library, ex
officio, or his designated representative; two members of the Committee of Management, and such additional number of members from the general membership of the Associates not exceeding twenty-seven, as the Regents may from time to time fix on the
recommendation of the President after suggestion from the Board of Governors. The
members of the Board of Governors shall serve for one year, from October 1 to September 30. They shall elect a chair and such other officers as needed from their membership annually. The Regents may also appoint, upon suggestion by the Board of
Governors and recommendation by the President, any number of honorary members of
the Board.
Funds. Funds contributed to the University of Michigan through the Clements
Library Associates for the purpose of the Associates shall, unless otherwise specified by
the donor, be placed in a trust fund to be designated the Clements Library Associates
Fund The Clements Library Associates fund shall be expended at the direction of the
Board of Governors.
The Regents also approved the appointment of several people to the Clements Library Associates Board of Governors (see Personnel Actions).


327




May Meeting, 1993


Regents' Bylaw Section 1.14 (Regental and Executive/Senior Officer
Conflict of Interest Policy)
The Regents received the final version of the Regental and Executive/Senior
Officer Conflict of Interest Policy, which incorporates changes suggested when
the policy was adopted at the April 1993 meeting. The bylaw text is as follows:
Sec. 1.14.  Regntal and Executive/Senio       r      er Conflict of Interest Policy
Regents and executive officers of the University of Michigan, and the senior
officers of the University at Dearborn and at Flint, shall at all times act in a manner
consistent with their fiduciary responsibilities to the University and shall exercise particular care that no detriment to the University results from conflicts between their interests and those of the University. If a Regent or an excutive/senior officer believes
that he or she may have a conflict of interest, the Regent or executive/senior officer shall
promptly and fully disclose the conflict to the secretary of the Board of Regents and
shall refrain from participating in any way in the matter to which the conflict relates
until the conflict question has been resolved. The minutes of a Regents' meeting where
a disclosure of conflict or possible conflict of interest is made shall reflect the disclosure
and that the Regent or executive/senior officer having such abstained from participation in the matter.
A Regent or executive/senior officer is considered to have a conflict of interest
when the Regent or executive/senior officer or any of his or her family or associates, either (i) has an existing or potential financial or other interest which impairs or might
appear to impair the Regent's or executive/senior officer's independence ofjudgment in
the discharge of responsibilities to the University, or (ii) may receive a material, financial, or other benefit from knowledge of information confidential to the University. The
'family' of a Regent or executive/senior officer includes his or her spouse, parents, siblings, children and, if living in the same household and sharing expenses, other individuals. An "associate of a Regent or executive/senior officer includes any person,
trust, organization, or enterprise in or with which the Regent or executive/senior officer
has knowledge that he or se or any member of his or her family (i) is a director, officer, employee, member, partner, or trustee, or (ii) has a financial interest that represents 5% or more of his or her assets or any interest that enables him or her, acting
alone or in conjunction with others, to exercise control or to influence policy significantly, or (iii) has any other material association.
The secretary shall consult with the president and general counsel regarding all
conflict questions of which the secretary is informed  shall report regularly to the
Board of Regents regarding any unresolved conflict questions. This policy statement is
to be interpreted and applied in a manner that will best serve the interests of the University. In some cases it may be determined that after full disclosure to those concerned
the University's interests are best served by participation by the Regent or executive/senior officer despite the conflict. The University will assist the Board in determining if
such proposed participation violates the state conflict of interest laws. The general
counsel will provide a Regent or executive/senior officer, upon his or her request, a
written opinion as to whether a conflict of interest situation exists.
This policy is in addition to any obligations imposed on a Regent or executive/se
nior officer by the state conflict of interest laws, PA 1968, Nos. 317 and 318, as
amended.
The secretary shall distribute annually a copy of this policy statement to each Regent and executive/senior officer
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1994
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following schedule of meetings for 1994 (all meetings


328




May Meeting, 1993


are on a Thursday-Friday, except the September meeting, which is MondayTuesday):
January 20-21                July 14-15
February 17-18               August-no meeting
March 10*-11                 September 19-20
April 14-15                  October 20**-21
May 19-20                    November 17-18
June 16-17                   December 15-16
* Held at UM-Dearborn
** Held at UM-Flint
Academic Calendar for 1994-96
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed academic calendar for 1994-95, as denoted
in the Regents Communication.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:00 AM.
The next meeting will be held on June 10 and 11, 1993. Regents' transportation,
accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of April
1993 totaled $572.19.
Richard L. Kennedy, Sec  ry


329




May Meeting, 1993


Appendix A
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF STUDENT FEE BONDS IN
THE PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $29,000,000 TO REFUND
ALL OR A PORTION OF CERTAIN PRIOR STUDENT FEE BONDS, AND TO
PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT AND SECURITY OF THE BONDS
AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan (the
"University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued its $14,140,000 Construction Projects Student Fee Revenue Bonds, Series 1986, dated as of August 15, 1986, and its $24,985,000 Construction and Refunding Student Fee Bonds, Series 1987, dated as of May 1, 1987 (the "Prior Bonds");
and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it may be appropriate and in the best interest of
the Issuer to refund all or a portion of the Prior Bonds, as determined by an Authorized Officer
(hereinafter defined) (the portion of the Prior Bonds to be refunded being herein called the "Refunded Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
interests of students attending the University, and to prudently control and direct expenditures
of the University's funds, the Issuer deems it necessary and advisable to issue in one or more series its Student Fee Refunding Bonds, with appropriate series designation (hereinafter defined as
the "Bonds"), in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed Twenty-Nine Million Dollars
($29,000,000) to provide funds to refund the Refunded Bonds, and pay the expenses related thereto and incidental to the issuance of the Bonds and the refunding, and
WHEREAS, the refunding of the Refunded Bonds will serve proper and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously incurred obligations secured by a pledge of and
first lien against Student Fees, subject to the right to incur additional obligations similarly secured, upon conditions specified in the resolutions authorizing said previously incurred obligations, essentially as follows, to wit:
"The total amount of Student Fees collected by the University in each of its last
two preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such additional Parity
Obligations are equal to at least 200% percent of the maxmum annual principal and
interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed
additional Parity Obligations during any future Fiscal Year the proposed additional
Parity Obligations are scheduled to be outstanding."
WHEREAS, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University (each an "Authorized Officer") shall certify
in connection with the issuance of the Bonds, that all conditions and requirements precedent to
the issuance of the Bonds shall have been met, as shown by audit reports of the University for
each of its last two preceding fiscal years; and


331




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


WHEREAS, the Issuer shall retain the Underwriter (hereinafter defined) as underwriter
to undertake market analysis with respect to the sale of the Bonds and to submit an offer to purchase the Bonds pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement (hereinafter defined).
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Bonds at the most opportune time, it is necessary for the Issuer to authorize the Authorized Officers, or either one of them, to establish the
specific terms of the Bonds, prepare preliminary and final official statements with respect to the
Bonds, and accept the offer of the Underwriter to purchase the Bonds, all within the limitations
set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has been created as a constitutional body corporate under the provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and has full power under
its constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and control and direction of expenditures from the University funds, to refund the Refunded Bonds and to pledge Student Fees for
payment of the Bonds;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the following terms
shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:
"Authorized Officer" means each of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the
Associate Vice President for Finance of the University.
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the Regents of the University of Michigan Student Fee Refunding Bonds, Series 1993, to be issued in one or more series under this Resolution in the aggregate
principal amount of not to exceed $29,000,000.
"Bond Payment Date" means any date on which interest or principal and interest is payable on the Bonds, being April 1, and October 1 of each year beginning the April 1 or October 1
designated by an Authorized Officer.
"Bond Fund" means the University of Michigan Student Fee Refunding Bonds, Series 1993
Bond Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bond Proceeds Fund" means the University of Michigan Student Fee Refunding Bonds,
Series 1993 Bond Proceeds Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Bond Purchase Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between the Issuer
and the Underwriter with respect to the purchase of the Bonds by the Underwriter, to be executed and delivered on behalf of the Issuer by an Authorized Officer.
"Bondholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Bonds) means the registered owner
of any Bond.
"Escrow Agent" means the Escrow Agent appointed by an Authorized Officer in accordance with the provisions of Section 502 hereof.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, currently beginning on July 1 and
ending on June 30.
"Governmental Obligations" means any of the following which at the time of investment
are legal investments for the moneys proposed to be invested therein: direct general obligations
of, or obligations the payment of the principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America, or other obligations, including defeased tax-exempt securities and maturing interests in a trusteed fund or funds composed entirely of any of the
foregoing instruments, the timely payment of which is fully secured by the payment of principal
and interest on direct general obligations of, or obligations the payment of principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America.


332




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when received, earned
through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the Bond Fund.
"Issuer" means the Regents of the University of Michigan, a constitutional body corporate
having general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures from
its fiuds.
"Legally Available Funds" means any moneys of the Issuer that may be legally used by the
Issuer to pay principal of and interest on the Bonds, but shall not include any funds (a) currently
or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or future loans, bonds or debt service on
other obligations, or other purposes to the extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the use of
which would result in the Bonds herein authorized being construed as a general obligation of the
Issuer or as indebtedness of the State of Michigan under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
"Outstanding" or "Bonds outstanding" means, as of any date, all Bonds delivered under
the Resolution, except (i) Bonds theretofore acquired by the Issuer and canceled and (ii) Bonds
for which the Issuer shall have made provision for payment in accordance with the Resolution by
depositing with the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent cash or cash and Government Obligations, the principal of and interest on which when due will be sufficient to pay the principal of
and, premium, if any, and interest on said Bonds as the same become due through maturity.
"Parity Obligations" means the Bonds and any other debts or obligations of the Issuer secured by a pledge of and first lien against Student Fees, including the existing Parity Obligations
specified in Section 601 and any additional Parity Obligations hereafter issued by the Issuer from
time to time in accordance with the terms of the Resolution.
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Student Fees" means the general tuition fees established from time to time by the Issuer,
and collected from the students attending any campus of the University.
"Transfer Agent" means the Transfer Agent appointed by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or any successor Transfer Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section 301 or 308.
"Underwriter" means John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated.
"University" means the University of Michigan.
ARTICLE II
NECESSITY FOR ISSUANCE OF BONDS
Section 201. Necessity for Issuance of the Bonds. The Issuer, in the exercise of its powers
and authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and direction of
all expenditures from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, hereby determines that the issuance of the Bonds for the purposes set
forth in the preambles hereto is necessary and advisable in order to enable the Issuer to refund
the Refunded Bonds.
ARTICLE m
THE BONDS
Section 301. Authorization of the Issuance of the Bonds. For the purposes set forth in Article II, there shall be borrowed the sum of not to exceed Twenty-Nine Million Dollars
($29,000,000), and in evidence thereof there shall be issued in one or more series, the Bonds of
the Issuer which shall be designated "Student Fee Refunding Bonds, Series 1993".
The Authorized Officers, and each, singly, is authorized to make the determinations specified herein. The Bonds shall be issued in such aggregate principal amount, not more than
$29,000,000, as an Authorized Officer shall determine, and may be issued in one or more series
as an Authorized Officer may determine. The Bonds may be serial bonds or term bonds ("Term


333




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


Bonds") subject to redemption requirements, or both, as shall be established by an Authorized
Officer, but the first maturity shall be not earlier than April 1, 1994 and the last maturity shall
be no later than April 1, 2012. The Bonds may bear no interest or interest at stated rates for the
respective maturities thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the highest
rate of interest for any maturity shall not exceed 6% per annum. The Bonds may be made noncallable or subject to redemption prior to maturity at the times and prices and in the manner as
shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the maimum redemption premium shall not
exceed 5% of the principal being redeemed. The maimum annual principal and interest requirements on the Bonds shall not exceed $4,500,000. The Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to be established by an Authorized Officer
(but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original issue discount, shall not exceed 0.8% of the
principal amount of the Bonds), plus accrued interest, if any, from the dated date of the Bonds to
the date of delivery thereof.
The Bonds shall be dated as of a date or dates to be selected by an Authorized Officer, shall
all be equall be y secured as hereinafter set forth, shall be issued in y-registered fu form in the denomination of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof not exceeding the principal amount of Bonds
maturing in the year of maturity of the Bond specified, and shall be numbered consecutively
from 1 upwards.
The Bonds shall bear interest payable on April 1 and October 1 of each year until maturity, commencing on the April 1 or October 1 designated by an Authorized Officer. The principal
amount of each Bond shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America upon surrender of the Bond at the principal corporate trust office of a bank or trust company designated
by an Authorized Officer (the "Transfer Agent") in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as may be, on the respective dates of payment thereof, legal tender for the payment of
debts due the United States of America. Interest on the Bonds shall be payable when due to the
person or entity who is, as of the 15th day of the month prior to each Bond Payment Date (the
"Record Date") the registered holder of record by check or draft mailed by the Transfer Agent to
the registered holder as of the Record Date at the registered address or by wire transfer by the
Transfer Agent to any Bondholder of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Bonds
to such wire transfer address as the Bondholder shall specify in a written notice requesting payment by wire transfer delivered to the Transfer Agent not later than 11:00 am on the fifth business day prior to the Bond Payment Date (which notice may provide that it shall remain effective
until changed or revoked).
Section 302. Limited Obligation. The Bonds shall be limited obligations of the Issuer
equall   d y an   and solely secured by Student Fees and any moneys in the Bond Fund, and
the Bonds shall not be a debt or liability of the State of Michigan or a general obligation of the Issuer.
Section 303. Execution. Authentication and Delivery. The Bonds shall be signed in the
name of and on behalf of the Issuer by facsimile signature of its Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or its Associate Vice President for Finance printed, lithographed or engraved thereon.
No Bond shall be valid until authenticated by an authorized officer or agent of the Transfer
Agent. The Bonds, when executed and authenticated, shall be delivered by the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance to the purchaser thereof upon
payment of the purchase price therefor determined pursuant to Section 301 hereof. Executed
blank Bonds for registration of transfer shall be delivered to the Transfer Agent for safekeeping
concurrently with the delivery of the Bonds, and from time to time thereafter as necessary.
In case any officer a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any Bonds shall cease to
be such officer before the delivery of such Bonds, either as part of the initial delivery of the Bonds
or in connection with a transfer or exchange, such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. The Transfer
Agent's certificate of authentication of any Bond shall be deemed to have been executed by it if
signed by an authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent, but it shall not be necessary that the
same person sign the certificate of authentication on all of the Bonds issued hereunder.


334




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


Section 304. Redemption of Bonds. The Bonds shall be subject to optional or mandatory
redemption, or both, at the times and prices as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer,
provided, however, that no redemption premium on the optional redemption of Bonds shall exceed 5% of the principal amount being redeemed. The principal amount of Term Bonds to be redeemed on any date shall, at the option of the Issuer, be reduced, in the order determined by the
Issuer, by the principal amount of Term Bonds of the same series and maturity, which have been
previously redeemed (other than pursuant to a previous annual redemption requirement) or purchased or acquired by the Issuer and submitted to the Transfer Agent for cancellation; provided
that each such Term Bond has not theretofore been applied as a credit against any mandatory redemption requirement. The Issuer shall give notice to the Transfer Agent at least 45 days prior
to any mandatory redemption date of the Issuer's exercise of its option to reduce the amount of
the mandatory redemption requirement on such date as herein set forth. The provisions set forth
in this paragraph, including the provisions pertaining to the reduction of mandatory redemption
requirements, shall survive the defeasance of the Bonds and this Resolution as permitted by Section 702 hereof.
Notice of redemption of any Bond shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the date
fixed for redemption by mail to the registered holder or holders of the Bond to be redeemed at the
registered addresses shown on the registration books kept by the Transfer Agent. Bonds shall be
called for redemption in multiples of $5,000 and Bonds of denominations of more than $5,000
shall be treated as representing the number of Bonds obtained by dividing the denomination of
the Bond by $5,000 and such Bonds may be redeemed in part. The notice of redemption for
Bonds redeemed in part shall state that upon surrender of the Bond to be redeemed a new Bond
or Bonds in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Bond surrendered shall be issued to the registered holder thereof, without cost to the holder. No further interest on the Bonds or portions of Bonds called for redemption shall accrue after the date fixed for
redemption, whether presented for redemption or not, provided funds are on hand with the
Transfer Agent to redeem the same.
Section 305. Form of Issuance and Transfer of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be issued in the
form of fully-registered bonds without coupons. Any Bond may be exchanged for Bonds of other
authorized denominations or transferred upon the books required to be kept pursuant to this
section by the person in whose name it is registered, in person or by his duly authorized attorney,
upon surrender of the Bond to the Transfer Agent for cancellation, accompanied by delivery of a
duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Bond or Bonds shall be surrendered for transfer or exchange, the Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University shall execute or
cause to be executed, as specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver a
new Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal amount, and with like interest rate and maturity.
The Transfer Agent shall require the payment by the Bondholder requesting the transfer or exchange of any tax or other governmental charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer
or exchange. The Transfer Agent shall not be required to make any transfer or exchange of any
Bond or portion of a Bond called for redemption within 30 days of the redemption date (except
the unredeemed portion of a Bond to be redeemed in part), or any Bond within 10 days prior to
the date of publication of a notice of redemption.
The Transfer Agent shall keep or cause to be kept, at its principal office, sufficient books
for the registration and transfer or exchange of the Bonds, which shall at all times be open to inspection at reasonable times by the Issuer and its auditors or their designees; and, upon presentation for such purpose, the Transfer Agent shall, under regulations as it may prescribe, transfer
or exchange or cause to be transferred or exchanged, on said books, Bonds as hereinbefore provided.
As per the direction of the initial purchasers of the Bonds, the ownership of the Bonds shall
be registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC").
In the event the Issuer determines that the continuation of the system of book-entry-only transfers through DTC (or a successor securities depository) is not in the best interests of the beneficial owners of the Bonds or the Issuer, it will so notify the Transfer Agent and DTC, whereupon
the Transfer Agent shall notify DTC of the availability through DTC of Bond certificates. In such
event, or in the event DTC discontinues its services with respect to the Bonds, the Issuer shall


335




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


issue, and the Transfer Agent shall transfer and exchange Bonds as requested by DTC of like tenor, principal amount interest rate and maturity, in authorized denominations to the identifiable
beneficial owners of the Bonds. While the Bonds are in book-entry-only form, payment of principal of and premium, if any and interest on the Bonds shall be made as provided in a Letter of Representations among DTC, the Issuer and the Transfer Agent.
The form of the Bonds shall be substantially as follows:


336




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


(Form of Bond)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STATE OF MICHIGAN
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
STUDENT FEE REFUNDING BOND,
SERIES 1993
No.      Maturity Date:              Principal Amount:
Interest Rate:     Date of Original Issue:,
Registered Holder.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body corporate created by
and existing under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan (the "Issuer"), for value received, hereby promises to pay the Principal Amount shown above to the Registered Holder or
registered assigns, in lawful money of the United States of America on the Maturity Date shown
above, with interest thereon until maturity from,      or such later date through
which interest on the Bond in exchange for which this Bond has been issued has been paid at the
Interest Rate per annum shown above, first payable __     1, and semiannually
thereafter on April 1 and October 1. Principal of this bond is payable at the principal corporate
trust office of, in                         (the "Transfer Agent")
or such other transfer agent as the Issuer may hereafter designate by notice mailed to the registered owner not less than 60 days prior to any interest payment date. Interest on this bond is
payable to the person or entity who is, as of the 15th day of the month prior to each interest payment date (the "Record Date"), the registered owner, by check or draft mailed by the Transfer
Agent to the registered holder as of the Record Date at the registered address, or by wire transfer
by the Transfer Agent to any holder of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds to such wire transfer address as the holder shall specify in a written notice requesting payment by wire transfer delivered to the Transfer Agent not later than 11:00 am. on the fifth business day prior to the interest payment date (which notice may provide that it shall remain
effective until changed or revoked).
This bond is one of an issue of bonds (the "Bonds"), of like tenor, except as to series designation, denomination, rate of interest and date of maturity, aggregating the principal amount of
$ ___, all issued pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Issuer on, 1993
(the "Resolution"), for the purpose of refunding certain prior bonds of the Issuer secured by an
irrevocable pledge of Student Fees (defined in the Resolution) and paying costs related thereto
and incidental to the issuance of the Bonds, all in accordance with the authority vested in the Issuer by law, particularly Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
The Bonds, including this bond, are equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of
the Student Fees collected from the students attending the University of Michigan. The Issuer
has covenanted and agreed to establish and maintain Student Fees to be collected in an amount
sufficient to provide annually sums equal to at least two hundred percent of the maximum future
annual debt service requirements on all outstanding bonds or obligations payable on a first lien
basis therefrom. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest
on this bond or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the Issuer or any officer
or agent thereof or of the University of Michigan, as individuals, either directly or indirectly nor
shall these obligations become a lien on or be secured by any property, real personal or mixed, of


337




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


the State of Michigan or the Issuer, other than the Student Fees and the Bond Fund, as more fully defined in the Resolution. By acceptance hereof and as a part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, the registered owner hereof expressly waives all other recourse.
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Bonds are issued, the funds from
which and the conditions under which this bond is payable, the general covenants and provisions
pursuant to which this bond is issued, the outstanding obligations of the Issuer which have an
equal claim on the Student Fees with the Bonds, the rights of the holders of Bonds, and the right
of the Issuer to issue additional obligations of equal standing and priority of lien on the Student
Fees with the Bonds, and the terms and conditions under which this bond and the series of Bonds
of which this is one, or any part thereof, shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, reference is
made to the above described Resolution. A certified copy of the Resolution is on file at the Investment Office of the University.
The Bonds maturing prior to,, shall not be subject to redemption prior to
maturity. Bonds maturing on or after, shal be subject to redemption prior to
maturity at the option of the Issuer, in whole or in part on any date on or after, in such order of maturity as the Issuer shall designate and by lot within a maturity, at the
following redemption prices (expressed as a percentage of the principal amount to be redeemed),
plus accrued interest to the redemption date:
Redemption Dates                   Redemption Price
The Bonds maturing                (the "Term Bonds"), are also subject to mandatory
redemption by lot prior to maturity, on, in the years and the amounts set forth in
the order of the authorized officer of the Issuer establishing the terms of the Bonds, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount to be redeemed plus accrued interest to the redemption date without premium.
The principal amount respectively of the Term Bonds to be redeemed on the dates set forth
in the Indenture shall be reduced, in the order determined by the Issuer, by the principal amount
of any Term Bonds of the same series and maturity which have been previously redeemed
(otherwise than as a result of a mandatory redemption requirement) or purchased by the Issuer
and delivered to the Transfer Agent for cancellation as provided in the Resolution.
Notice of redemption of any Bond shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the date
fixed for redemption by mail to the registered holder or holders of the Bond to be redeemed at the
registered addresses shown on the registration books kept by the Transfer Agent. Bonds shall be
called for redemption in multiples of $5,000 and Bonds of denominations of more than $5,000
shall be treated as representing the number of Bonds obtained by dividing the denomination of
the Bond by $5,000 and such Bonds may be redeemed in part. The notice of redemption for
Bonds redeemed in part shall state that upon surrender of the Bond to be redeemed a new Bond
or Bonds in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Bond surrendered shall be issued to the registered holder thereof, without cost to the holder. No further interest on the Bonds or portions of Bonds called for redemption shall accrue after the date fixed for
redemption, whether presented for redemption or not, provided funds are on hand with the
Transfer Agent, to redeem the same.
Any Bond may be exchanged for Bonds of other authorized denominations or transferred
by the person in whose name it is registered, in person or by his duly authorized attorney, upon
surrender of the Bond to the Transfer Agent for cancellation, together with a duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form approved by the Transfer Agent. Whenever any Bond is surrendered for transfer or exchange, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate
Vice President for Finance of the University shall execute or cause to be executed, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal
amount, and with like interest rate and maturity. The Transfer Agent shall require the bondholder requesting the transfer or exchange to pay any tax or other governmental charge required


338




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


to be paid with respect to the transfer or exchange. The Transfer Agent shall not be required to
make any transfer or exchange of any Bond or portion of a Bond called for redemption within 30
days of the redemption date (except the unredeemed portion of a Bond to be redeemed in part),
or any Bond within 10 days prior to the date of publication of a notice of redemption.
This Bond is not valid or obligatory for any purpose until the Transfer Agent's Certificate
of Authentication on this Bond has been duly executed by the authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent.
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things required to be done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Bond,
have been done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner, as required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of the University of Michigan has caused this
Bond to be signed for it and in its behalf by the facsimile signature of its, all as of the Date of Original Issue set forth above.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
By
Its


339




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


Certificate of Authentication
This is to certify that the within Bond is one of the Regents of the University of Michigan
Student Fee Refunding Bonds, Series 1993, described in the Resolution herein referred to.


Date of
Authentication:


By


Authorized Signatory


340




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A
[FORM OF ASSIGNMENT]
FOR VALUE RECEIVED
the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto


the within Bond of the Regents of the University of Michigan and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint                                          Attorney to transfer said
bond on the books of the within-named Corporation, with full power of substitution in the
premises.
Dated:


In the presence of:
Signature(s) Guaranteed
Signature(s) must be guaranteed by an eligible
guarantor institution participating in a Securities Transfer Association recognized signature
guarantee program.


Note: The signature tothis Assinment must correspond with the
name as written on the face of this
Bond in every particular, without
alteration or enlargement or any
change whatever. When assignment
is made by a guardian, trustee, executor or administrator, an officer of a
corporation, or anyone in a representative capacity, proof of his authority to act must accompany the
Bond.


The transfer agent will not effect transfer of this bond unless the information concerning
the transferee requested below is provided.


PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY
NUMBER OR OTHER IDENTIFYING
NUMBER OF TRANSFEREE.


Name and Address:


(Insert number for first named
transferee if held by
joint account)


(Include information for all joint
owners if bond is held by
joint account.)


341




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


Section 306. Mutilated Bonds Subject to and in accordance with Act 354, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1972, as amended ("Act 354"), if any bond shall become mutilated, the Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, at the
expense of the holder of the Bond, shall without further action being required by the Regents of
the University of Michigan, execute or cause to be executed in the manner specified above, and
the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver, a new Bond of like tenor in exchange and substitution for the mutilated bond, upon surrender to the Transfer Agent of the mutilated Bond
and receipt by the Transfer Agent and the Issuer of indemnity stisfactory to them. Subject to
and in accordance with Act 354, if any Bond issued under this Resolution shall be lost, destroyed
or stolen, evidence of the loss, destruction or theft may be submitted to the Transfer Agent and, if
this evidence is satisfactory to both the Transfer Agent and the Issuer and indemnity satisfactory
to the Transfer Agent and the Issuer shall be given, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance, at the expense of the owner, shall without further action being required by the Regents of the University of Michigan, execute or cause to be
executed in the manner specified above and the Transfer Agent shall thereupon authenticate and
deliver, a new Bond of like tenor and bearing the statement required by Act 354, or any applicable Michigan law hereafter enacted, in lieu of and in substitution for the Bond so lost, destroyed or stolen. If any such Bond shall have matured or shall be about to mature, instead of
issuing a substitute bond the Transfer Agent may pay the same without surrender thereof.
Section 307. Cancellation of Bonds. All Bonds which have been retired by maturity, redemption or purchase shall be canceled by the Transfer Agent and an appropriate certificate of
cancellation with respect thereto delivered to the Issuer. Unless otherwise required by applicable
law, regulation or rule, as soon as practicable following the cancellation thereof, all canceled
Bonds shall be cremated and an appropriate certificate of cremation delivered to the Issuer by
the Transfer Agent.
Section 308. Resignation of Transfer Agent. The Transfer Agent may resign by giving not
less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to the Issuer, and the Issuer may remove the
Transfer Agent by giving not less than ninety (90) days prior written notice to the Transfer
Agent. The Issuer shall designate a successor Transfer Agent and shall mail notice of the appointment of the successor Transfer Agent to each registered owner of the Bonds not less than
sixty (60) days prior to the next Bond Payment Date. Upon the appointment of a successor
Transfer Agent, the predecessor Transfer Agent shall transfer all moneys and funds, the registration books, and all other documents and instruments relating to the Bonds held by it as Transfer
Agent to the successor Transfer Agent.
ARTICLE IV
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Section 401. Establishment of Bond Proceeds Fund. There is hereby created and established the Bond Proceeds Fund, which shall be a sub-account within a general banking account
of the University designated by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. There shall be deposited in the Bond Proceeds Fund (i) all proceeds from the sale of the Bonds, except accrued interest to be deposited in the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 501, and (ii) all investment
earnings on investments of the Bond Proceeds Fund. All moneys in the Bond Proceeds Fund
shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in Article V.
Section 402. Establishment of Bond Fund. There is hereby created and established with
the Transfer Agent the Bond Fund. There shall be deposited in the Bond Fund:
1.   Any accrued interest received at the time of delivery of the Bonds.
2.   Student Fees as pledged and required to be paid into the Bond Fund at the
times and in the amounts provided in Section 602.
3.   All Legally Available Funds authorized or permitted to be paid into the Bond
Fund pursuant to Section 603.
4.   All Investment Income.


342




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


5.   Any moneys remaining in the Bond Proceeds Fund after the disbursements
provided for in Article V which are directed by the Issuer to be deposited therein.
All moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in
Article V.
ARTICLE V
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
Section 501. Application of Bond Proceeds. Immediately upon the receipt thereof, the proceeds of the sale of the Bonds shall be apportioned among and deposited in the following funds
and accounts in the following manner:
1.   Any accrued interest received on sale of the Bonds shall be deposited in the
Bond Fund;
2.   The balance of the proceeds of the Bonds shall be deposited in the Bond Proceeds Fund.
Section 502. Use of and Disbursements from Bond Proceeds Fund. Moneys in the Bond
Proceeds Fund shall be used pursuant to the following purposes:
1.   The amount necessary to refund the Refunded Bonds shall, on the date of delivery of the Bonds, be deposited with the escrow agent to be designated and appointed by an Authorized Officer (the "Escrow Agent") in an Escrow Fund to
be established under an Escrow Deposit Agreement to be executed into between
the Issuer and the Escrow Agent, all as to be set forth in the Escrow Deposit
Agreement; and
2.   The balance of the funds, and investment earnings thereon, shall be used for
the payment of accounting, financial consulting, legal, printing and other expenses of the Issuer incidental to the preparation, issuance, sale and delivery of
the Bonds and the refunding-,
Any amount remaining in the Bond Proceeds Fund after saisfaction of the foregoing priorities shall, as directed by the Issuer, be promptly transferred to the Bond Fund or used by the Issuer for payment of any other lawful capital costs of the University as determined by the Issuer.
The depository for the Bond Proceeds Fund shall make disbursements from the Bond Proceeds
Fund upon the order of the Issuer, and shall have no duty or liability with respect to the manner
or method in which moneys are withdrawn by the Issuer from the Bond Proceeds Fund or in fact
are used or applied by the Issuer.
Section 503. Use of and Disbursements from Bond Fund. On each Bond Payment Date,
the Transfer Agent shall use moneys in the Bond Fund to pay principal of and interest on the
Bonds as the same become due and, in the case of principal payments, as the Bonds are presented
and surrendered. The Transfer Agent may use moneys in the Bond Fund not required to pay maturing principal or interest on the next Bond Payment Date for the acquisition of Bonds in the
open market at the written direction of the Issuer. Any amount remaining in the Bond Fund after the Bonds have been paid or provision made therefor under the Resolution shall be returned
to the Issuer.
Section 504. Investment of Funds. Moneys held in the Bond Fund, until required for use,
shall be invested by Transfer Agent in direct obligations of, or obligations the principal and the
interest of which are guaranteed by the United States of America; or obligations of Federal Farm
Credit Banks, Federal Home Loan Banks, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Land Bank, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks, the Export-Import Bank of the United States,
the Government National Mortgage Association, the Bank for Cooperatives, the Federal Financing Bank, the Farmers Home Administration and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Association;
or tax-exempt obligations rated A or better by Moody's Investors Service and Standard and
Poor's Corporation in the case of long term obligations, or in the highest category by each such
rating agency in the case of short-term obligations; or may be deposited in a bank or banks
(including the Transfer Agent) in an interest bearing savings account or accounts, bankers'


343




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


acceptances or in certificates of deposit; or may be invested in any fund or funds composed
entirely of any or all of the above described investment vehicles (provided that, with respect to
tax-exempt obligations in such funds, the obligations need not be rated A or better, but rather
must be, or be deemed to be by the Fund's sponsor or adviser, investment grade), all as shall be
directed by the Issuer.
Interest or profit earned on the above investments or deposits, when received shall be deposited in the Bond Fund. Any loss on the above investments or deposits shall be charged to the
Bond Fund.
Moneys held in the Bond Proceeds Fund may be invested in any investments legally available for University funds. All earnings, gains or losses thereon shall be credited to the Bond Proceeds Fund.
Section 505. Tax Covenant. The Issuer hereby covenants that it shall take all actions within its control necessary to maintain the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds from gross income
for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"), including
but not limited to actions relating to the rebate of arbitrage earnings, if required, and the expenditure and investment of Bond proceeds and moneys deemed to be Bond proceeds.
ARTICLE VI
SOURCES OF PAYMENT AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS
Section 601. Security for the Bonds. The Bonds are not debts or general obligations of the
State of Michigan, nor general obligations of the Issuer, but are limited obligations of the Issuer
equally and ratably secured only by the following.
1.   All moneys in the Bond Fund;
2.   Student Fees and the Issuer's right to receive Student Fees; and
3.   All of the proceeds of the foregoing.
The Issuer hereby pledges and grants to the Bondholders a security interest in all of the
foregoing, and in order to assure this security the Issuer covenants and agrees that the Bondholders shall have a first lien on all moneys in the Bond Fund, and that Bondholders shall have a first
lien against Student Fees of equal standing and priority of lien with the pledge of Student Fees
for other Parity Obligations, including additional Parity Obligations which the Issuer reserves
the right to issue under Article VII and the existing (as of May 1, 1993) Parity Obligations of the
Issuer, as follows:
1.   University Events Building Bonds
Original Amount - $5,800,000
Dated - February 1,1966
Final Maturity - April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $865,000
2.   Graduate Library Building Bonds
Original Amount - $2,000,000
Dated - July 1,1969
Final Maturity - April 1, 1999
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $545,000
3.   Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount - $6,590,000
Dated - July 1,1977
Final Maturity - April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $5,665,000


344




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


4.   Dearborn Recreational Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount - $3,500,000
Dated - April 1,1978
Final Maturity - April 1, 2008
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $2,635,000
5.   Dearborn Campus Project Fee Bonds
Original Amount - $10,180,000
Dated - July 1, 1979
Final Maturity - April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $7,750,000
6.   Telecommunications System Bonds, Series 1984
Original Amount - $45,858,587
Dated - October 1, 1984 and November 1, 1984
Final Maturity - April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $20,645,425
7.   Construction Projects Student Fee Bonds, Series 1986
Original Amount - $14,140,000
Dated - August 1,1986
Final Maturity - April 1, 2012
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $12,260,000
8.   Construction and Refunding Student Fee Bonds. Series 1987
Original Amount - $24,985,000
Dated- May 1, 1987
Final Maturity - April 1, 2009
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $22,140,000
9.   Telecommunications System and Refunding Bonds. Series 1988
Original Amount - $7,253,682.80
Dated - March 22, 1988
Final Maturity - April 1, 1998
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $10,075,956
10..Engineering College Projects Student Fee Bonds. Series 1991
Original Amount - $8,100,000
Dated- July 15, 1991
Final Maturity - April 1, 2002
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $8,100,000
11. Major Capital Projects Student Fee Bonds. Series 1993A 1993B and 1993C
Original Amount - $66,080,000
Dated - February 1, 1993
Final Maturity - April 1, 2013
Amount Outstanding (May 1, 1993) - $66,080,000
The lien of the pledge of the Student Fees, and on the Bond Fund, shall be valid and binding from the date of issuance and delivery of the Bonds and all moneys or properties subject
thereto which are thereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien of the pledge without physical delivery or further act. The lien of the pledge shall be valid and binding against all
parties having claim in tort, contract or otherwise against the Issuer (except for the holders of
any other indebtedness of the Issuer payable from a first lien on Student Fees) irrespective of
whether such parties have notice of the lien.
Section 602. Student Fees s Source of Payment of Bonds. To the extent that on the fifth
day preceding any Bond Payment Date the moneys then on deposit in the Bond Fund are not
sufficient to meet the interest, or principal and interest, payment coming due on such Bond Payment Date, the Issuer shall, commencing the fifth day prior to the first Bond Payment Date, and
on each subsequent fifth day preceding each Bond Payment Date while the Bonds remain outstanding, pay to the Transfer Agent for deposit into the Bond Fund all Student Fees thereafter
received until the amount on deposit in the Bond Fund is sufficient to pay the interest, and
principal, if any, coming due on the Bonds by maturity on such Bond Payment Date; provided,


345




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


however, that in making the payment over to the Transfer Agent, Student Fees shall be divided
pro rata between the Bond Fund and any similar fund for the payment of other obligations of the
Issuer secured by a first lien on Student Fees, to the extent necessary to effect the pari passu basis of the lien on Student Fees. Subject to the above requirements, the Issuer shall have and retain the full right and ability to receive, collect, expend, invest, use or otherwise hold or dispose of
Student Fees as the Issuer deems appropriate.
Section 603. Funds Legally Available Therefor as Source of Payment for the Bonds. The
Issuer reserves the right, but shall not be required, to use any Legally Available Funds for the
purpose of paying principal or interest on the Bonds.
Section 604. Covenant re: Student Fees. The Issuer covenants and agrees that as long as
any of the Bonds remain outstanding and unpaid, as to either principal or interest, it will establish and maintain Student Fees to be collected from the students attending the University in an
amount sufficient to provide annually sums equal to at least two hundred percent (200%) of the
maximum future annual debt service requirements on all outstanding bonds or obligations payable on a first lien basis from said Student Fees or allocations therefrom. Such collections shall
be sufficient, together with other available funds, to provide such sums as are necessary for the
operation, administration and maintenance of the University and its facilities and programs.
Section 605. Limitations of Obligations. No recourse under any obligation, covenant,
stipulation or agreement contained in this Resolution or in any Bond issued hereunder or caused
by the creation of any indebtedness hereby authorized, shall be had against the State of Michigan, or the Issuer or any member or officer of the Issuer or any officer of the University; nor
shall any such obligation ever be or become a charge against the State of Michigan, nor shall the
same become a lien on or secured by any property, real, personal or mixed, of the State of Michigan or the Issuer, it being expressly understood and agreed that the Bonds and the obligations
created hereunder are secured by and payable only from Student Fees and moneys in the Bond
Fund, and that no other liability whatsoever shall attach to or be incurred by the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any member or officer of the Issuer or any officer of the University, or its successors; all other liability, except as herein provided, being expressly waived.
ARTICLE VII
ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIGATIONS AND DEFEASANCE
Section 701. Additional Parity Obligations. The Issuer reserves the right to issue additional Parity Obligations for any authorized purpose having equal standing and priority of lien
against Student Fees with the Bonds and other then existing Parity Obligations of the Issuer,
provided:
(a) the Issuer by its Associate Vice President for Finance certifies that the total
amount of Student Fees collected by the Issuer in each of its last two preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such proposed additional Parity Obligations
are equal to at least 200% of the maximum annual principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed additional Parity
Obligations during any future Fiscal Year the Bonds are scheduled to be outstanding,
and
(b) the proposed additional Parity Obligations shall be payable as to principal
only on April 1 of the year or years of maturity and payable as to interest either
annually or semiannually on April 1 or October 1 of such years.
Section 702. Defeasance. If all the Bonds shall have become due and payable in accordance
with their terms or are to be paid at their maturity or maturities or are to be redeemed prior to
maturity (notice of redemption, or irrevocable instructions to the Transfer Agent to mail such
notice, having been duly given) and the whole amount of the principal and the interest so due
and payable upon all of the Bonds then outstanding shall be paid or sufficient cash, or cash and
non-callable Government Obligations the principal of and the interest on which without reinvestment, when due and payable, will provide sufficient moneys for such payment, shall be held
by the Transfer Agent in the Bond Fund or by any other escrow agent in trust for the benefit of


346




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


the holders of the Bonds, then and in that case the Resolution shall be defeased and terminated
and all obligations of the Issuer hereunder shall thereupon cease, terminate and become void
and, on demand of the Issuer, any surplus in the Bond Fund other than money held for the payment of the Bonds shall be transferred to the Issuer, provided, that the applicable provisions of
this Resolution pertaining to the payment of the principal of and interest on the Bonds and redemption and registration, exchange and transfer of Bonds shall be continued in force until such
have been fully paid.
Bonds or portions of Bonds for which cash or cash and Government Obligations (including
principal of and interest thereon) shall be held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent in
trust for the holders of said Bonds or portions of Bonds sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if
any, and interest through maturity or earlier redemption (notice of redemption, or irrevocable
instructions to the Transfer Agent to mail such notice, having been duly given) shall no longer be
outstanding hereunder, and the holders thereof shall have no further rights hereunder or under
the Bonds except the right to receive payment from the cash or cash and Government Obligations held in trust as specified above and the right to effect transfers or exchanges of Bonds as described above.
All moneys and Government Obligations held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent
as described above shall be held in trust and applied to the payment, when due, of the Bonds payable therewith.
ARTICLE VI
FURTHER COVENANTS AND LIMITATION
ON RECOURSE OF BONDHOLDERS
The Issuer covenants and agrees with the holders of the Bonds as follows:
Section 801. Audits and Records. The Issuer shall keep and maintain accurate books and
records relating to the collection of Student Fees and the allocation thereof and the payments
into the Bond Fund, which said books and records shall be open for inspection by any holder of
the Bonds at any reasonable time. Said books and records shall be audited annually by a certified
public accountant.
Section 802. Performance of Covenants: Authority. The Issuer shall faithfully perform all
of its covenants, undertakings, provisions and agreements contained in the Resolution and in any
Bond executed and delivered hereunder and in all other proceedings of the Issuer pertaining
thereto. The Issuer is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan
to adopt the Resolution, to issue the Bonds, and to pledge Student Fees in the manner and to the
extent herein set forth; all action on its part relating to the adoption of the Resolution and the issuance, execution and delivery of any Bonds has been or will be duly and effectively taken prior
to the delivery of such Bonds; and the Bonds in the hands of the holders and owners thereof are
and will be valid and enforceable limited obligations of the Issuer according to their terms.
ARTICLE IX
SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS
Section 901. Supplemental Resolutions Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders. The Issuer
may without the consent of the Bondholders adopt resolutions supplemental to the Resolution as
shall not be inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof for any one or more of the following purposes:
(a) To provide for the issuance and sale of additional Parity Obligations;
(b) To confirm or further assure the Student Fees or to grant or pledge to the
Bondholders any additional security;
(c) To add additional covenants and agreements of the Issuer for the purpose of
further securing the payment of the Bonds;
(d) To prescribe further limitations and restrictions upon the issuance of Parity
Obligations by the Issuer, and


347




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


(e) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the Resolution.
Section 902. Supplemental Resolutions Requiring Consent of Bondholders. Exclusive of
supplemental resolutions covered by Section 901 for which consent of Bondholders is not required, the holders of not less than 51% in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding shall have the right to consent to the adoption by the Issuer of such other supplemental
or amendatory resolutions as shall be deemed necessary and desirable by the Issuer, provided,
however, that nothing contained in this Section shall permit, or be construed as permitting, (i)
an extension of the maturity of the principal of or the interest on any Bond issued hereunder, or
(ii) a reduction in the principal amount of any Bond or the rate of interest thereon, or (iii) a
privilege or priority of any Bond or Bonds over any other Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in
the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds required for consent to such supplemental or amendatory resolution.
If the Issuer shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution requiring consent of the
Bondholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of such supplemental resolution to be
mailed to each registered owner at the registered address as shown on the books of the Issuer
kept by the Transfer Agent. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed supplemental or amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof are on file at the Investment
Office of the University for inspection by all Bondholders. If within six months following the publication of such notice, the holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the
Bonds outstanding at the time of the mailing of such notice have consented in writing to the
adoption thereof, upon the adoption of such supplemental or amendatory resolution, the Resolution shall be deemed to be amended in accordance therewith.
ARTICLE X
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1001. Authorization of Official Statement, Preliminary Official Statement and
Bond Purchase Agreement. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or the Associate Vice
President for Finance, or either of them are hereby authorized to cause to be prepared and circulated a Preliminary Official Statement with respect to the Bonds, and to cause to be prepared,
and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer an Official Statement, substantially in the form
of the previously prepared Preliminary Official Statement, except for such changes as an Authorized Officer determines are necesary, and a Bond Purchase Agreement, each relating to the
Bonds. The distribution and use of the Preliminary Official Statement by the Underwriter in accordance with applicable laws, in connection with the sale of the Bonds, is hereby ratified and
confirmed, and the distribution and use of the Official Statement in accordance with applicable
laws by the Underwriter in connection with the marketing of the Bonds, is hereby authorized
and approved.
Section 1002. Resolution Constitutes Contract. The provisions of the Resolution shall constitute a contract between the Issuer and Bondholders to the equal and ratable benefit and
protection of each Bondholder, and after delivery of the Bonds, no change, variation, or alteration
of the provisions of the Resolution may be made except in accordance with its terms.
Section 1003. Enforcement of Contract. The contract constituted by the Resolution shall
be enforceable by appropriate proceedings taken by the Bondholder(s) under the law.
Section 1004. Other Documentation. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
University, the Secretary of the University, the Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, the Treasurer and Investment Officer of the University, and any other appropriate officers or representatives of the Issuer or the University, and each of them, are authorized to
perform all acts and deeds and execute and deliver all instruments and documents, including the
Escrow Deposit Agreement with the Escrow Agent, for and on behalf of the Issuer required by
this Resolution, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds.
Subsequent to the issuance of the Bonds, all actions permitted or required by the Issuer
may be made or undertaken by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or Associate Vice


348




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix A


President for Finance, or any other duly authorized officer of the Issuer or the University. All determination of Bond terms required to be made by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
or Associate Vice President for Finance shall be made by him within the ranges or other limitations set forth herein.
ARTICLE XI
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1101. Severbility. If any one or more sections, clauses or provisions of the Resolution shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective for any
reason, such determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the remaining
sections, clauses and provisions of the Resolution.
Section 1102. Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference and shall
not constitute a part of the Resolution, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or effect.
Section 1103. Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Section 1104. Effective Date. The Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.


349




May Meeting, 1993


Appendix B
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF HOSPITAL REVENUE
REFUNDING BONDS, AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER
MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan (the
"University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer entered into a master indenture, as supplemented (the "Master Indenture") dated as of May 1, 1986 with Comerica Bank as Master Trustee (the "Master Trustee"), pursuant to which revenue obligations for the benefit of the University of Michigan
Hospitals (the "Hospital") have been and will be issued and secured; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued under the Master Indenture its $65,115,000
Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1990, dated as of December 15, 1990 (the "Prior Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it may be appropriate and in the best interest of
the Issuer to refund all or a portion of the Prior Bonds, as determined by an Authorized Officer
(hereinafter defined) (the portion of the Prior Bonds to be refunded being herein called the "Refunded Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently control
and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it is necessary and desirable to authorize the issuance pursuant to the terms of the Master Indenture of a series of hospital revenue obligations (the "Bonds"), in the aggregate original principal amount of not to
exceed Fifty-One Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($51,500,000) to provide funds which,
together with other available funds, may be used to refund the Refunded Bonds and to pay certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the refunding of
the Refunded Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Bonds will be issued pursuant to a trust indenture (the "Series Indenture") to be entered into by and between the Issuer and a trustee (the "Series Trustee") to be selected by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or Associate Vice President for Finance
of the University (each an "Authorized Officer") as a series of revenue obligations under the Master Indenture; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer shall retain the senior underwriter to be designated by an Authorized Officer, and any other underwriters to be designated by an Authorized Officer (collectively
called the "Underwriter"), as underwriter to undertake market analysis with respect to the sale
of the Bonds and to submit an offer to purchase the Bonds pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement (the "Bond Purchase Agreement") to be negotiated with the Underwriter and executed and
delivered on behalf of the Issuer by an Authorized Officer, and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Bonds of the Issuer in one or more series to be designated as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer (but
which designation shall include the words "HOSPITAL REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS, SERIES 1993"), with appropriate additional series designations, in the aggregate original principal
amount to be established by an Authorized Officer, but not to exceed the principal amount necessary to produce proceeds of $51,500,000, to be dated as of the date or dates established by an


351




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix B


Authorized Officer, for the purpose of providing funds which, together with other available funds,
may be used to refund the Refunded Bonds and to pay costs incidental to the refunding and to
the issuance of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be serial Bonds or term Bonds subject to redemption
requirements, or both, as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the first maturity
shall be not earlier than December 1, 1993 and the last maturity shall be no later than December
1, 2024. The Bonds may bear no interest or may bear interest at stated fixed rates for the respective maturities thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the highest fixed rate
of interest for any maturity shall not exceed 6.00% per annum, and the Bonds may be issued in
whole or in part as capital appreciation bonds, which for their term or any part thereof bear no
interest but appreciate in principal amount over time at compounded rate (not in excess of 6.00%
per annum) to be determined by an Authorized Officer. Alternatively, all or part of the Bonds
may bear interest at a variable rate of interest for all or a portion of their term, and the variable
rate of interest shall not exceed the maximum rate permitted by law. In addition, all or part of
the Bonds may be issued in related series, one of which bears interest at a variable rate and one
of which bears interest at a residual rate determined by subtracting the variable rate from the
fixed rate paid by the Issuer, but the combined rate on such Bonds, taking the two related series
together, which shall be determined by an Authorized Officer, shall not exceed 6% per annunm
The Bonds may be subject to redemption or call for purchase prior to maturity at the times and
prices and in the manner as shall be established by an Authorized Officer. The maximum annual
principal and interest requirements on the Bonds, taking into account any swap or other arrangements described below, and assuming the variable rate on any Bonds not also subject to a
swap or other arrangement, and not issued as part of related series as described above, is equal to
6% per annum, shall not exceed $19,000,000. Interest on the Bonds shall be payable at the times
as shall be specified by an Authorized Officer. The Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form
in denominations, shall be payable as to principal and interest in the manner, shall be subject to
transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and authenticated, all as shall be provided in the Series Indenture. The Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase
Agreement for a price to be established by an Authorized Officer (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original issue discount, shall not exceed 0.8% of the principal amount thereof)
plus accrued interest, if any, from the dated date of the Bonds to the date of delivery thereof. In
connection with the issuance of the Bonds, either of the Authorized Officers may, on behalf of
and as the act of the Issuer, enter into an interest rate swap agreement or agreements (the
"Swap Agreement") with a counter-party or counter-parties to be selected by the Authorized Officer. Such Swap Agreement shall provide for payments between the Issuer and the counterparty related to interest on the Bonds or indexed or market established rates. The effective interest rates on the Bonds, taking into account the effect of the Swap Agreement, shall be within the
limitations set forth herein.
2. The Bonds, and any obligations of the Issuer under the Swap Agreement, shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from Hospital Gross Revenues (as defined
in the Master Indenture) and equally and ratably secured with all other Revenue Obligations (as
defined in the Master Indenture) by an irrevocable pledge of the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues (as defined in the Master Indenture) and funds from time to time on deposit in certain of
the funds created pursuant to the Master Indenture and shall be additionally secured by the
funds from time to time on deposit in certain of the funds created pursuant to the Series Indenture.
Except as provided in the Master Indenture and the Series Indenture, no recourse shall be
had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium on the Bonds or any
obligation of the Issuer under the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, or the Swap Agreement, or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any officer of
agent thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Bonds or any obligation of
the Issuer under the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, or the Swap Agreement become a
lien on or be secured by any property, real, personal or mixed of the State of Michigan or the Issuer or the University, other than the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues and the moneys from
time to time on deposit in certain of the funds established by the Master Indenture and the Series
Indenture.


352




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix B


3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from
Hospital Gross Revenues or secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the Pledged Hospital
Gross Revenues, upon compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Master Indenture.
4. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf
of the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to retain a financial advisor, if deemed necessary
by the Authorized Officer, to designate the Underwriter, to negotiate, execute and deliver the Series Indenture, the Bond Purchase Agreement and the Swap Agreement, in each case subject to
the terms hereof. Any of said documents may, in the discretion of an Authorized Officer, also be
executed by the Treasurer and Investment Officer of the University.
5. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name
and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Bonds by placing his
manual or facsimile signature thereon, and to deliver the Bonds to the Underwriter in exchange
for the purchase price thereof, as shall be provided in the Bond Purchase Agreement.
6. Either Authorized Officer is hereby authorized to prepare or arrange to be prepared the
Preliminary Official Statement with respect to the Bonds and to prepare or arrange to be prepared, and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer the Official Statement with respect to
the Bonds and such supplements or amendments to the Official Statement as may be required
pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement. The Underwriter is hereby authorized to circulate
and use the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official Statement, as the same may be so
supplemented or amended, in accordance with applicable law, in the offering, sale and remarketing of the Bonds.
7. Each of the Authorized Officers, the Secretary, the Treasurer and Investment Officer,
the General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are hereby authorized
to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and documents for an on
behalf of the Issuer or the University required by this resolution, the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, the Swap Agreement or the Bond Purchase Agreement, or necessary, expedient
and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds, and the ongoing operation of the financing program represented by the Bonds, all as contemplated hereby.
8. The Authorized Officers are, or either of them is, hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name of and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate,
execute and deliver an escrow agreement relating to the Refunded Bonds and the Bond proceeds
therefor, in such form as an Authorized Officer shall approve upon recommendation of legal
counsel, subject to the terms hereof, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of such escrow agreement.
9. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.


353




May Meeting, 1993


Appendix C
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND SALE OF BONDS IN THE PRINCIPAL
AMOUNT OF NOT TO EXCEED $4,000,000 TO REFUND ALL OR A PORTION
OF CERTAIN PRIOR INTERCOLLEGIATE ATHLETIC REVENUE BONDS
AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT AND SECURITY OF THE BONDS
AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan (the
"University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued its $6,285,000 Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1987, dated as of April 15, 1987 (the "Prior Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it may be appropriate and in the best interest of
the Issuer to refund all or a portion of the Prior Bonds, as determined by an Authorized Officer
(hereinafter defined) (the portion of the Prior Bonds to be refunded being herein called the "Refunded Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the
interests of students attending the University, and to prudently control and direct expenditures
of the University's funds, the Issuer deems it necessary and advisable to issue its Intercollegiate
Athletic Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1993 (hereinafter defined as the "Bonds"), in the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000) to provide funds to
refund the Refunded Bonds, and paying the expenses related thereto and incidental to the issuance of the Bonds and the refunding; and
WHEREAS, the refunding of the Refunded Bonds will serve proper and appropriate public
purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer shall retain the Underwriter (hereinafter defined) as underwriter
to undertake market analysis with respect to the sale of the Bonds and to submit an offer to purchase the Bonds pursuant to a Bond Purchase Agreement (hereinafter defined).
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Bonds at the most opportune time, it is necessary for the Issuer to authorize the Authorized Officers, or either one of them, to establish the
specific terms of the Bonds, prepare preliminary and final official statements with respect to the
Bonds, and accept the offer of the Underwriter to purchase the Bonds, all within the limitations
set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has been created as a constitutional body corporate under the provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and has full power under
its constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and control and direction of expenditures from the University funds, to refund the Refunded Bonds and to pledge Adjusted Gross
Athletic Revenues (hereinafter defined) for payment of the Bonds;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the following terms
shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:


355




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix C


"Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues" means all revenues received by the Issuer from spectator admissions to all regularly scheduled inter-collegiate athletic events, and currently (as of
May 1, 1993) accounted for as "Spectator Admissions": such revenues include receipts from
home football games (ess opponents' share); receipts from away football games: student and
staff season ticket sales receipts for all sports for which such tickets are sold; admission receipts
and away game guarantees or other payments from all other sports (less guarantees or other
payments to opponents); and receipts from championship events (less guarantees or other payments to opponents); but excludes receipts from football bowl games, the National Invitational
Tournament and National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament in basketball, and all other items not currently (as of May 1, 1993) accounted for as "Spectator Admissions".
"Annual Debt Service" means for any Fiscal Year the sum of (i) an amount equal to the
amount of scheduled principal (at maturity or through mandatory redemption requirements)
and interest to become due in that Fiscal Year on the then outstanding Bonds and any then outstanding Parity Obligations (excluding the principal of Balloon Indebtedness or amounts which
may become owing at the option of the holder of such Bonds), plus (ii) an amount equal to the
principal amount of then outstanding Balloon Indebtedness excluded from (i) divided by the
number of years to maturity from the date of original issuance of the Balloon Indebtedness. Interest on Variable Rate Bonds shall be calculated at any date of calculation as an amount equal
to the greater of (a) the average daily interest rate during the then preceding twelve month period or (b) the rate in effect on the date of calculation. For purposes of applying the calculation set
forth in (a) above, if the Parity Obligations have not been outstanding for at least twelve months
on the date of such calculation, then the average daily interest rate during the then preceding
twelve month period shall be based on the written certificate of an independent financial advisor
or independent investment banker, as to the determination of the average interest rate the Variable Rate Bonds would have borne for such twelve month period had they been outstanding. Interest which is payable from the proceeds of Bonds or Parity Obligations or other funds set aside
for such purpose on or before the date of delivery of the Bonds or Parity Obligations, and debt
service scheduled to be paid from any reserves set aside for the Bonds or any Parity Obligations
shall be excluded in determining the Annual Debt Service requirement.
"Authorized Officer" means each of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the
Associate Vice President for Finance of the University.
"Balloon Indebtedness" means any issue of Parity Obligations, the debt service requirements on which in any consecutive 12 month period, including debt service which can become
due by reason of a requirement that the indebtedness be redeemed or purchased or repurchased
by or on behalf of the Issuer from the holder thereof prior to the stated maturity (other than at
the option of the holder thereof), exceeds the average annual debt service requirements thereon
by 30% or more.
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the not to exceed $4,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Regents of the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
1993, to be issued under the Resolution.
"Bond Fund" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1993 Bond Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bond Proceeds Fund" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 1993 Bond Proceeds Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Bond Purchase Agreement" means the Bond Purchase Agreement, between the Issuer
and the Underwriter, pursuant to which the Bonds shall be sold by the Issuer to the Underwriter, to be executed and delivered on behalf of the Issuer by an Authorized Officer.
"Bondholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Bonds) means the registered owner
of any Bond.
"Credit Support Instrument" means an irrevocable letter of credit, line of credit, insurance
policy, bond purchase agreement, guaranty or surety bond providing for the payment of, or


356




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix C


guaranteeing the payment of, principal and interest on, the purchase price of, Parity Obligations
when due.
"Escrow Agent" means the Escrow Agent appointed by an Authorized Officer, or any successor Escrow Agent, in accordance with the provisions of Section 502.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, currently beginning on July 1 and
ending on June 30.
"Fixed Rate Bonds" means the Bonds and any Parity Obligations bearing interest at a
fixed rate or rates of interest.
"Governmental Obligation" means any of the following which at the time of investment
are legal investments for the moneys proposed to be invested therein: direct general obligations
of, or obligations the payment of the principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America, or other obligations, including defeased tax-exempt securities and maturing interests in a trusteed fund or funds composed entirely of any of the
foregoing instruments, the timely payment of which is fully secured by the payment of principal
and interest on direct general obligations of, or obligations the payment of principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America
"Interest Payment Date" means each June 1 and December 1, commencing the June 1 or
December 1 specified by an Authorized Officer, during the period the Bonds are outstanding.
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when received, earned
through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the Bond Fund.
"Issuer" means the Regents of the University of Michigan, a constitutional body corporate
having general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures from
its funds.
"Legally Available Funds" means any moneys of the Issuer that may be legally used by the
Issuer to pay principal of, and interest on, the Bonds, but shall not include any funds
(a) currently or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or future loans, bonds or debt
service on other obligations or other purposes to the extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the
use of which would result in the Bonds herein authorized being construed as a general obligation
of the Issuer or as indebtedness of the State of Michigan under the Michigan Constitution of
1963.
"Operating Costs" means all costs and expenses required to be paid for the operation and
maintenance of the Program, but shall not include payment of debt service on the Bonds and any
additional Parity Obligations, depreciation or amortization.
The terms "outstanding" or "Bonds outstanding" mean, as of any date, all Bonds theretofore or then being delivered under the Resolution, except (i) Bonds theretofore acquired by the
Issuer and canceled and (ii) Bonds for which the Issuer shall have made provision for payment in
accordance with the Resolution by depositing with the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent
cash or cash and Government Obligations the principal of and interest on which when due will
be sufficient to pay the principal, premium if any, and interest on said Bonds as the same become
due through maturity or earlier redemption (notice of such redemption, or irrevocable instructions to the Transfer Agent to mail such notice, having been duly given).
"Parity Obligations" means the Bonds, the Series 1989 Bonds and additional bonds or
obligations of the Issuer secured by a pledge of and first lien against Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues, hereafter issued or incurred by the Issuer from time to time in accordance with the
terms of the Resolution.
"Program" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletics Programn
"Revenue Fund" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1987 Revenue Fund established by the resolution authorizing the issuance
of the Series 1987 Bonds and continued by Section 403 hereof.


357




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix C


"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Series 1987 Bonds" means the Issuer's $6,285,000 Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds,
Series 1987.
"Series 1989 Bonds" means the Issuer's $8,000,000 Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate
Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1989, dated as of July 12, 1989.
"Surplus Revenues" means in any Fiscal Year all Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues for
such Fiscal Year remaining after the Issuer has made the deposits required to be made in such
Fiscal Year to the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 504 hereof and after the Issuer has paid all
Operating Costs for such Fiscal Year.
"Transfer Agent" means the Transfer Agent appointed by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University or any successor Transfer Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section 308.
"Underwriter" means John Nuveen and Co. Incorporated.
"University" means the University of Michigan.
"Variable Rate Bonds" means any Parity Obligations bearing interest at variable or adjustable rates.
ARTICLE H
NECESSITY FOR ISSUANCE OF BONDS
Section 201 Necessity for Issuance of the Bonds. The Issuer, in the exercise of its powers
and authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and direction of
all expenditures from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, hereby determines that the issuance of the Bonds for the purposes set
forth in the preambles hereto is necessary and advisable to refund the Refunded Bonds and to
pay certain costs incidental to the issuance and sale of the Bonds and the refunding.
ARTICLE mI
THE BONDS
Section 301 Authorization of the Issuance of the Bonds For the purposes set forth in Article II, there shall be borrowed the sum of not to exceed Four Million Dollars ($4,000,000), and
in evidence thereof there shall be issued the Bonds of the Issuer which shall be designated "Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1993", to be equally secured as hereinafter
set forth.
The Authorized Officers, and each, singly, is authorized to make the determinations specified herein. The Bonds shall be issued in such aggregate principal amount, not more than
$4,000,000, as an Authorized Officer shall determine, and may be issued in one or more series as
an Authorized Officer may determine. The Bonds may be serial bonds or term bonds ("Term
Bonds") subject to redemption requirements, or both, as shall be established by an Authorized
Officer, but the first maturity shall be not earlier than July 1, 1993 and the last maturity shall be
no later than December 31, 1998. The Bonds may bear no interest or interest at stated rates for
the respective maturities thereof as shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the highest
rate of interest for any maturity shall not exceed 5% per annunm The Bonds may be made noncallable or subject to redemption prior to maturity at the times and prices and in the manner as
shall be established by an Authorized Officer, but the maximum redemption premium shall not
exceed 5% of the principal being redeemed. Interest on the Bonds, if any, shall be payable semiannually on the dates to be determined by an Authorized Officer. The maximum annual principal and interest requirements on the Bonds shall not exceed $870,000. The Bonds shall be sold to
the Underwriter pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement for a price to be established by an
Authorized Officer (but the Underwriter's discount, exclusive of original issue discount, shall not
exceed 0.8% of the principal amount of the Bonds), plus accrued interest, if any, from the dated
date of the Bonds to the date of delivery thereof.


358




May Meeting, 1993 - Appendix C


Section 302 Limited Obligation and Other Bond Terms. The Bonds shall be limited
obligations of the Issuer equally and ratably and solely secured by the Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues and any moneys in the Bond Fund or Revenue Fund, and the Bonds shall not be a debt
or liability of the State of Michigan or a general obligation of the Issuer.
The Bonds shall be dated as of a date or dates to be selected by an Authorized Officer, shall
all be equally secured as hereinafter set forth, shall be issued in fully-registered form in the denomination of $5,000 or integral multiples thereof not exceeding the principal amount of Bonds
maturing in the year of maturity of the Bond specified, and shall be numbered consecutively
from 1 upwards.
The Bonds shall bear interest payable on June 1 and December 1 of each year until maturity, commencing on the June 1 or December 1 specified by an Authorized Officer. The principal
amount of each Bond shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America upon surrender of the Bond at the principal corporate trust office of a bank or trust company designated
by an Authorized Officer (the "Transfer Agent") in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as may be, on the respective dates of payment thereof, legal tender for the payment of
debts due the United States of America Interest on the Bonds shall be payable when due to the
person or entity who is, as of the 15th day of the month prior to each Bond Payment Date (the
"Record Date") the registered holder of record by check or draft mailed by the Transfer Agent to
the registered holder as of the Record Date at the registered address or by wire transfer by the
Transfer Agent to any Bondholder of $1,000,000 or more in aggregate principal amount of Bonds
to such wire transfer address as the Bondholder shall specify in a written notice requesting payment by wire transfer delivered to the Transfer Agent not later than 11:00 am. on the fifth business day prior to the Bond Payment Date (which notice may provide that it shall remain effective
until changed or revoked).
Section 303 Execution, Authentication and Delivery. The Bonds shall be signed in the
name of and on behalf of the Issuer by facsimile signature of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or Associate Vice President for Finance of the University, printed, lithographed or engraved thereon. No Bond shall be valid until authenticated by an authorized officer or agent of
the Transfer Agent. The Bonds, when executed and authenticated, shall be delivered by the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Associate Vice President for Finance to the Underwriter thereof upon payment of the purchase price therefor determined as provided in
Section 301 hereof. Executed blank Bonds for registration of transfer shall be delivered to the
Transfer Agent for safekeeping concurrently with the delivery of the Bonds, and from time to
time thereafter as necessary.
In case any officer a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any Bonds shall cease to
be such officer before the delivery of such Bonds, either as part of the initial delivery of the Bonds
or in connection with a transfer or exchange, such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. The Transfer
Agent's certificate of authentication of any Bond shall be deemed to have been executed by it if
signed by an authorized signatory of the Transfer Agent, but it shall not be necessary that the
same person sign the certificate of authentication on all of the Bonds issued hereunder.
Section 304 Redemption of Bonds The Bonds may be redeemed, in part or in whole, prior
to maturity, in the order of maturity, upon the terms and conditions, and upon the notice specified in the form of the Bond set forth in Section 305 of this Resolution and at the times and
prices as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer. If the Issuer shall determine to redeem
Bonds prior to the maturity thereof, it shall give notice thereof in writing to the Transfer Agent
not less than forty (40) days prior to the date upon which the Bonds are to be redeemed (unless
such notice is waived by the Transfer Agent), which notice shall specify the principal amount of
the Bonds to be redeemed; and it shall be the duty of the Transfer Agent to cause notice of the redemption to be given in the manner and at the times specified in the form of the Bond set out in
Section 305 of this Resolution. On or before the date fixed for redemption, the Issuer shall pay to
the Transfer Agent for deposit in the Bond Fund, in addition to any other payments that may be
required by this Resolution, a sum which, together with moneys then on hand in the Bond Fund
and available therefor, shall be sufficient to pay the principal of and interest and redemption premiums on the Bonds to be redeemed. Any such Bonds called for redemption shall cease to bear


359



