
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS
APPEND ITH
APPENDIXES AND INDEX


1837-1864


PUBLISHED BY THE UNIVERSITY.ANN ARBOR, OCT. 1I5




Of this Volume ONaL I-lJ[tUNDR:L) AND FIP'I'T copies have
been printed under the ecitorship of Pro fessor DIi\tIMO)N.


THE ANN ARBCR PRESS
ANN ARBOR




EDITOR'S PREFAC-E.


The University of Michigan as an organized institution
of Collegiate rank dates from the admission of the State
into the Union. The feeble attempts during the Territorial
days to organize such an institution had all come to naught.
Accordingly, the first Legislature, following the nmandate of
the State Constitution, proceeded to carry out the design
on new lines. A Board of Regents was created to consist
of eiglteen members, six ex ocirio and twelve by appointment of the Governor and Senate. Seven memlbers constituted a quorum. On June 5, 1837, the first meeting of
the Regents was held at Ann Arbor Twhere the University
had been located by legislative enactment the previous
March. At this meeting eleven members were present, and
Governor Mlason presided. From tlis time forward there
were frequent meetings, sometimes in Ann Arbor, more
often in Detroit, which was for ten years the State Capital.
Difficulties were often experienced in securing a quorum,
and there were frequent changes in the personnel of the
Boardl, chiefly by resignation. The business was (lone for
the most part by a few men in and near Detroit.
The Constitution of 185o provided for a smlaller bo(ly.
to consist of one member from each Judicial District, who
should be chosen by popular vote at the April election of
I851 and take office the following January. The objection
to this arrangement was that all the members took office at
the same date for the same term (six years). It was found
in I857 that an entirely new Board of ten had lben chosen 
To obviate this objection an Amenldment to the Constitution
was proposed and adopted, that at the Spring election of
1863 a Board of eight members shoulld be elected on a
general ticket, to take office the following January; and that
these should be divided into four classes of two each, to
serve two, four, six, and eight years respectively. Thereafter, two should be chosen at the Spring election every two
years to serve the full term of eight years. TIlis arrangement is still in force.




iv


iED l.ITO. ' S PREFAI' CL;


The first Board began by printing a record of its proceeclings (.see page 9), but discontinued the practice after
three meetings. The Proceedings from that time to I858
have lain in the original MS. all these years. Many students
of the History of the University have remarked on this
neglect and have wished that these documents might be
printed and thus made secure against injury or destruction.
Accordingly, in June, 1912, the Regents authorized the
printing of these records "for preservation."  Authority
was later given the Editor to include the Proceedings from
IS58 to 1864, inasmuch as these, mluch abridged in printing,
existed in less than half a dozen known copies. The volume
hlere presented contains all that is recorded during the first
and second regimes above described.
The original MS. is in two thick folio volumes of 1129
closely written pages.  During the twenty-seven years
covered by this record ten different men served the Board as
Secretary. The handwritings of these men (or of their
scribes) present considerable variety in legibility, and the
style is not always un.iforml. The Editor has not attempted
any changes beyond the correction of obvious errors. A
few explanatory foot-notes lhave been added in small type.
A word of explanation should be given in regard to the
inclusion of Dr. Tappan's "Review" (pp. i11:9-II66). The
Board that removed him from the Presidency entered upon
their Journal (pp. o179-o081) a defence of their action,
and indulged in some reflections upon his official character
and efficiency. During the first winter after his removal,
while residing in Berlin, he yielded to the urgency of his
friends and prepared the "Review' here appended. For
obvious reasons it was rigidly suppressed at the time, and
very few copies are known to have survived. In view of the
attack just referred to, the present Board have thought it
proper that Dr. Tappan should be heard in his own defence,
as a part of the record of that unhappy controversy.
Mr1. H. L. Sensemann, of the Rhetoric staff, has rendered
invaluable aid in verifying the type-written copy with the
MS., preparing the Index, and assisting with the proofs.
October 20, 1915.                      I. N. D.




REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
1837-1864
FIRST MEETING, JUNE, 1837.
Ann Arbor, June 5th, I837.
This being the day appointed by the Governor for the
first meeting of the Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan, the following gentlemen appeared, viz.: his Excellency, Stevens T. Mason, Governor of Michigan, the
Honorable Edward tMundy, Lieutenant-Governor, the IHonorable Elon Farnsworth, Chancellor of the State, ex-officio
members of the Board, and Doctor Zina Pitcher, Doctor
Samuel Denton, Lucius Lyon, Isaac E.. Crary, Ross Wilkins, John F. Porter, Gideon 0. Whittemore, and John J.
Adam, Esquires, members.
On motion of Judge Wilkins, his Excellency the Governor, was appointed President pro tern., and Charles W.
Whipple, of the City of Detroit, Secretary pro tern., of the
Board.
On motion of Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, the "Act to
provide for the organization of the University of Michigan," wvas read and referred to a Committee consisting of
Lieutenant-Governor Mundy and Messrs. Crary and Porter.
On motion of Doctor Denton, the "Act to provide for
the location of the University," was referred to the same
Committee.
The Board then adjourned to 3 o'clock P. M.
3 o'clock, P. M.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
The Committee to whom was referred the "Act to provide for the organization of the University," and the "Act




2            FIRST MEETING, JUNE, 1837
to provide for the location of the University," by their
Chairman, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, made the following report, which was adopted:
The Committee to whom was referred the "Act to provide for
the organization and government of the University of Michigan,"
and "to locate the University of Michigan," respectfully report:That they have used the very limited time at their disposal for
the purpose of presenting to the Board of Regents, in a condensed
form, what, in the opinion of the Committee, would be at this first
meeting of the Regents, proper matters for their consideration and
action.
From an examination of the Act first named, the Committee
find it to be the duty of the Board at this meeting to appoint a
Secretary, Librarian, and Treasurer, and that the Regents appointed
under the provisions of the third section shall be classed and balloted for, so that one-fourth of them may go out of office annually,
and that by the second named Act, the selection of the lands to be
donated as the condition of the location of the University at Ann
Arbor, should be made by the Board at the present meeting and
the necessary conveyances for the same made and recorded. Your
Committee are of opinion that it was the intention of the Legislature to vest in the Regents the appointment of the Chancellor of
the University, an opinion predicated as well upon the great propriety of that mode of appointment, as upon a knowledge of the
opinions of many individual members of Ithe Legislature, and the
impression of the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Yet the
Committee, from a perusal of the Act, are satisfied that the exercise
of this power by the Board at this time, might from the ambiguity
of the Act, be of doubtful propriety, and they would therefore suggest that the Governor of the State might be requested in his message at the coming special session of the Legislature, to lay this
matter before that body.
Your Committee would suggest that the following Committees
be appointed to report at the present session of the Board, to wit:A Committee on the number of Professors and Tutors, and
their salaries and the salary of the Chancellor and other officers.
A Committee to carry into effect the provisions of the "Act to
locate the University of Michigan."
A Committee of Ways and Means.
And that the following Committees be appointed with instructions to report at the next regular session of the Board, to wit:A Committee to prepare a Code of Laws for the government of
the University and the Course of Instruction.
A Committee on Buildings and the Improvement of the University Grounds.
A Committee on University Branches.
A Committee on the appointment of Professors and Tutors, and
other Officers.
A Committee on Library, Philosophical Apparatus, and Cabinet
of Natural History.
The President appointed Chancellor Farnsworth        and
Messrs. Whittemore and Adam      a Committee to carry into




FIRST Ml/EETITNG, JUNE, 1837


0


effect the provisions of the "Act to locate' the University
of Michigan."
On motion of Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, the Board
then proceeded to the election of a Secretary and Treasurer; and Charles W. Whipple' was chosen               Secretary, and
Charles C. Trowbridge,2 Treasurer.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, the Secretary then
proceeded to divide the Board into four classes,3 of three
each; and it appeared that Messrs. Norvell, Wilkins. and
Adam    drew   class number one; Messrs. Lyon, Crary, and
Porter, class    number two; Doctor Denton             and   Messrs.
Whittemore     and   Hoffman, class number three; and             Dr.
Pitcher and Messrs. Schoolcraft and McClelland, class number four.
The following Committees were appointed by the President:
Ways and Means: Whittemore, Lyon, and Pitcher.
On Buildings and Improvements of the University Lands: Denton, Wilkins, and Porter.
On the number of Professors and Tutors, their salaries and
the salaries of the Chancellor and other Officers: Wilkins, Denton,
and Piltcher.
Afterwards Justice of the Supreme Court and Regent ex, officio (IS38 -1852).
2 \[Mr. Trowbridge declined this office. Two years later he was appointed
Regent and served three years (I839-I842).
3 FIRST BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE UNIVE]RSITY, June 5, I837.
His Ex. Stevens Thomson Mason, Governor.
-Ion. lEdward Mundy, Lieut.-Gov.
Hon. Elon Farnsworth, Chancellor. 
Hon. William A. Fletcher, Chief Justice.     ofo.
Hon. George Morell, Justice.
Hon. IEpaphroditus Ransom, Justice.
John Norvell, Esq. 
Ross Wilkins, Esq.   Class I (one year).
John J. Adam, Esq.
Lucius Lyon, Esq. 
Isaac E. Crary, Esq.  Class II (two years).
John F. Porter, Esq. 
Samuel Denton, M.D. 
Gideon 0. Whittemore, Esq. cClass III (three years).
Michael Hoffman, Esq. 
Zina Pitcher, M.D.. 
H. R. Schoolcraft, E1sq.  Class IV (four years).
Robert McClelland, Esq. 
Charles W. Whipple, Esq., Secretary.
C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., Treasurer.
Thomas Fitzgerald, Esq., afterwards U. S. Senator, was appointed Regent
in AM.arch, I837; but resigned the office a few days before the first meeting in
June and was succeeded by John F. Porter, Esq.
Nov. 18, 1837. John Norton, Esq., Treas., in place of C. C. Trowbridge,
declined.
Dec. i, I837. Seba Murphy, Regent, vice Robert McClelland, resignied.
Mar. 9, I838. Jonathan Kearsley, Regent, vice John F. Porter, resigned.
MIar. 9, I838. Gurdon C. Leech, Regent, vice Michael Hoffman, resigeld.




4


FIRST MlEETING, JUNE, 1837


To prepare a code of laws for the Government of the University, and the Course of Instruction: Lyon, Adam, and Crary.
On the Library, Philosophical Apparatus, and Cabinet of Natural History: Mundy, Porter, and Farnsworth.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, the mode and
manner of calling subsequent meetings of the Board was
referred to the Committee to prepare a Code of Laws for
the Government of the Ulniversity and the Course of Instruction.
On motion of Lieutenant-Governor MIundy, the Committee of Ways and Mleans were instructed to report upon the
expediency of making' contracts for procuring       materials
for the erection of buildings appropriate for the commencement of the University.
On motion of Lieutenant-Governor AMundy, the Board
adjourned to meet at o1 o'clock the following morning.
June 6th, 1837.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: the same as yesterday.
The minutes of the Proceedings of yesterday having
been read,
Judge Wilkins, from    the Committee appointed on the
number of Professors and Tutors, their salaries and the salaries of the Chancellor, and other Officers, made the following report:
[That they have had the subject under consideration, and conceiving it highly important to the public that the University of
Michigan should be speedily organized, and in operation, unanimously recommend the creation, at this time, of three professorships and two tutors, under the first department; and that the
salaries be fixed as follows:
That of  the  Chancellor  at................. $3,000.
That of each of the Professors at.......... 2,000.
That of each of the Tutors................  600.
In relation to the salaries of the other officers, your committee
deem it inexpedient at this session, to designate any amount of
compensation as an annual salary.
The committee further recommend the appointment of one
Professor in the Law Department, whose salary shall be fixed at
$2,000; and the commencement of the duties of that professorship,
the ensuing winter. Michigan, for years past, has presented, and
still continues to present, to the ambitious 'and enterprising youth




FIRST M EETIN TG, JUNE, 1837                   5
of our country a rich field for the exercise of talent and knowledge. Many such have emigrated from our sister states, with 'the
hope of here leading a useful and honorable life. Already prepared
by collegiate education for the study of a profession, all that is
needed is the opportunity to qualify themselves 'by appropriate
and liberal instruction. The.free, civil, constitution of Michigan,
holds forth high hopes to all, of every class, who cast their lot
among us. The science of law expands the intellect, improves the
heart, and qualifies for the most serviceable duties to man. By it,
our statesmen, civilians, jurists, and many of our legisators are
formed; and by it the country is cleared of the dangerous pettifogger, and protection from oppression, and security and justice
to all are maintained and preserved.
Your Committee therefore believing that this department will
immediately command a number of students, who are awaiting the
action of this Board, hesitate not to recommend the opening of the
Law School the ensuing winter.
On motion, the report was laid on the table.']
The Committee appointed "to carry into effect the Act to provide for the location of the University," beg leave to report,
That they have, in company with the other Regents, examined
several points, with the view of selecting a site for the University
Buildings, and recommend that that forty acres contemplated by said
Act to be selected by the Regents as a site for said buildings, be
located upon the farm called the Nowland farm, commencing near
the fence upon the brow of the hill near the river, bounded westerly
by State Street, extending easterly about seventy rods to the center
of the ravine, and extending southerly about ninety-one rods for
quantity.
On motion, the report was laid on the table.
Judge   Wilkins submlitted    the  following' resolutions,
which were laid on the table:
Resolved, That the arrangement of the Professorships, until
further ordered, be as follows:-First, Professor of Mental Philosophy, who shall have in charge the instruction in Moral Philosophy, Natural Theology, Rhetoric, Oratory, Logic, and History of
all Religions. Second, Professor of Mathematics, who shall have in
charge Mathematics in all its various branches, Civil Engineering
and Architecture. Third, Professor of Languages, who shall have
in charge instruction in the Roman and Greek Languages.
Resolved, That the Chancellor, in addition to his other duties,
shall have the charge of the Department of Law.
Resolved, That one of the Tutors shall have in charge the
Grammar School of Ancient Languages; and the other, the usual
branches of an English education.
Mr. Crary sunbmitted the following      resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on Laws and Regulations be instructed to inquire into the expediency of requiring certain of the
1The passage here bracketed is lacking in the MS., and is supplied fro;m
the pamphlet referred to on page 9, foot 'iote.




6


FIRST MEETING, JUNE, 1837


Professors of the University to deliver from time to time lectures in
different parts of the State; and, also, into the propriety of establishing a quarterly publication and requiring each of the Professors
and Tutors to write therefor, and report to this meeting of the
Board.
The following Committees were appointed by the Chair:
Mr. Porter, Dr. Pitcher, and Mr. Whittemore, Committee on University Branches; and Messrs. Crary, Wilkins,
and Farnsworth, a Committee on the appointment of Professors, Tutors, and other Officers.
On motion of Dr. Dentcn, the Board adjourned until
3 o'clock afternoon.
3 o'clock P. M.
The Board m t pursuant to adjournment.
On motion of Judge Wilkins, the Board proceeded to
the consideration of the report to carry into effect the "Act
to provide for the location of the University."
Dr. Pitcher moved that the report be adopted, and before the question was taken,
On motion of Mr. Crary, the further consideration of
the report was postponed until a survey of the land mentioned in the report can be made.
On motion of Mr. Lyon, the Committee of Ways and
Means were instructed to cause a survey to be made of said
lands, together with another tract designated by the Board.
On motion of Judge WNilkins, the Committee of Ways
and Means had leave to report at the next session of the
Board, upon the subject referred to them yesterday.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, the Committee
of Ways and Means were instructed to investigate the title
to the tracts of land.ordered to be surveyed.
The Board then proceeded to the consideration of the
report made in the morning by the Committee appointed on
the number of Professors and Tutors and their salaries,
and the salaries of the Chancellor and other Officers.
The question being on the adoption of so much of the
report as recommends the appointment of three Professors,
Mir. Adam moved to strike out "three" and insert "four,"
which was agreed to. The question recurring on the adoption of so much of the report as is herein before stated, as
amended, was agreed to.




FIRST MIEETING, JUNE, 1837


7


Chancellor Farnsworth moved that the further consideration of the subject of salary of the Chancellor be postponed until the next session of the PBoard, which was agreed
to.
The Board then proceeded.
The salaries of the Professors shall not be less than
$1,200. nor more than $2,000. in lieu of the salaries as reported, which was agreed to.
The Board then proceeded to consider so much of the
report as recommends "the appointment of one Professor in
the Law Department, whose salary shall be fixed at $2,000,"
and it was agreed to.
On motion, the remaining part of the report was indefinitely postponed.
And on further motion, said report, as amended, was
adopted.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, the Treasurei
was authorized to purchase such blank books as he may
deem necessary for the use of the Board.
The Board adjourned to meet at 9 o'clock the next morning.
June 7th, I837.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: the same as yesterday. The Minutes of the
preceding day were read.
Chancellor Farnsworth submitted the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Superintendent of Public Instruction be requested to furnish the outline of a plan of the University, at the
next meeting of the Board of Regents.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, it was ordered
that the bond to be executed by the Treasurer, be made in
the penal sun of $50,000oo.
The Board then proceeded to the election of a Librarian,
and the Rev. Henry Colclazer was declared to be duly
elected.
The Committee appointed to cause a survey of the
lands mentioned in the proceedings of yesterday, imade a
report, which was accepted.




8


FIRST lM[EETING, JUNE, 1837


The Committee appointed yesterday to investigate [he
title of lands referred to in the Proceedings of yesterday,
made a report, which was accepted.
The Board then proceeded to the consideration of the
report made by the Committee 'To carry into effect the
Act to provide for the location of the Universitv."
Dr. Denton submitted the following amendment to said
report, viz.: that the University be located on lands bounded
and described as follows,-On the north by the road leading to Judge Fletcher's, the width of the Rumsey farm   (so
called), west by State Street, east by lands of Judge Fletcher, on the old east line of said Rumsey farm, and south for
quantity.
MAr. Porter moved to lay the amendment on the table,
which was lost by yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Porter, Crary, Whittemore, Farnsworth, and
Pitcher.
Nays: Messrs. Denton, Wilkins, Lyon, Mason, Adam, and
Mundy.
The question recurring on the adoption of the report,
it was decided in the affirmative by yeas and nays, as follows:
Yeas:  Messrs. Denton, Wilkins, Mundy, Crary, Lyon, and
A dam.
Nays: Messrs. Porter, Whittemore, Farnsworth, Mason, and
Pitcher.
The question being on the adoption of the report as
amended, it was agreed to.
Judge Wiilkins submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee appointed upon the selection of
the site, be, and they are hereby instructed to require of the proprietors of the site, or lot of ground selected as the site of the
University of Michigan, good and sufficient deed of the same, pursuant to the requisition of the second Section of the "Act to locate
the University of Michigan"; and furthermore to secure the right
and privilege of water to the premises aforesaid, in said deed, and
conveyance to be made by the proprietors aforesaid.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the President of the Board of Regents be a
Committee, whose duty it shall be to propose for the adoption of




FIRST MlEETING, JUNE, 1837                     9
the Legislature such amendments to the organic law of the University as shall be referred to it by the Board.
Mr. Adam     submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Board cause so much of
the Constitution and Laws of the State as relates to the University
of Michigan, together with the Journal of the Proceedings1 of the
present session, to be published in a convenient pamphlet form, for
the use of the Regents.
Judge Wilkins laid on the table the following resolution:
Resolved, That Chief Justice Fletcher, Lieutenant-Governor
Mundy, and Dr. Denton, be, and they are hereby appointed a select
Committee to take charge of the University Grounds, have the
same appropriately fenced in, make the necessary contract for lumber and a suitable quantity of stone and brick.
The Committee on Rules and Regulations, who were
instructed to report the mode of calling subsequent meetings
of the Board, made a report accompanied by the followinog
resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the President be authorized to call subsequent
meetings of this Board, at such times and places as he may deem
expedient, by giving to each member suitable notice thereof in
writing.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the followingi resolutions, which
were adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on Amendments be instructed to
procure, if practicable, an amendment to the University Law, so as
to give to the Board of Regents the power to elect and prescribe the
duties of the Chancellor of the University.
Resolved, That the Committee be instructed to ask for such an
amendment Ito the eighteenth Section of the Law organizing the
University, as to vest in the Regents the power to establish the
Academic Branches, without the special sanction of the Legislature,
and to reduce the number of Agricultural Departments to two.
The Board then adjourned to 3 o'clock, afternoon.
3 o'clock, P. 5M.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, the Committee!eretofore appointed to procure a title to the land upon
It does not appear that the Proceedings were printed after the Tune
meetings of 1837. \What is supposed to be a unique copy of the "pamphlet"
here authorized, containing the Proceedinzs of the three June meetings of
I837 and running to 25 pages, is il the hands of the Editor.




-Io


SECONAD JUNE MIEETING, 1837


which the University is located, were discharged from the
further consideration of the subject.
Chancellor Farnsworth submitted the following resolution, -which was adopted:
Resolved, That Chief Justice Fletcher, Lieutenant-Governor
Mundy, and Dr. Denton be a Committee.to examine the title to
lands proposed as a site for the University, and to prepare all the
necessary conveyances, and submit the same to the Board of Regents at their next meeting, together with a certificate of the register of the goodness of title; and said Committee are also instructed to secure the conveyance of a sufficient supply of water
for the use of the University, from the most convenient fountain.
Lieutenant-Governor Mundy offered the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on Amendments be instructed
to procure, if practicable, an amendment to the third Section of the
"Act to provide for the organization and government of the University of Michigan," so that the Governor of the State may be
President of the Board, and in case of his absence the Board may
have power to appoint a President pro tern.
Mlr. Crary submitted the following report, which was
adopted:
The Committees on Laws and Regulations, to whom was referred the resolution instructing them to inquire into the expediency
of requiring certain of the Professors of the University to deliver
from time to time lectures in different parts of the State, and also,
'into the propriety of establishing a quarterly Journal, and requiring
the Professors and Tutors to write therefor, beg leave to report:
That they have had the same under consideration and they are.of the opinion that the principles of the resolution ought to be
incorporated into the Laws and Regulations for the Government of
the University.
Dr. Denton moved that the Superintendent of Public
Instruction be requested to furnish to the Board of Regents
a plan for the construction of the Branches of the University at its next meeting.
On motion of Mr. Porter, the Board adjourned to meet
at the City of Detroit, on Tuesday, the 13th instant.
SECOND     JUNE MEETING, 1837.
Detroit, June I3th, 1837.
The Board inet pursuant to adjournment.
Presenzt:  his Excellency, Governor Mason, LieutenantGovernor Mundv, Chancellor Farnsworth, Mr. Justice Mor



SECONTD JUNE MEETING, 1837


II


ell, and Messrs. Lyon, Norvell, Crary, Pitcher, Adam, and
Wilkins.
Lieutenant-Governor Mundy made the following report,
which was accepted:
The Committee to whom was assigned the duty of receiving the
title deeds for the lands selected for the site of the University, and
proper conveyances for the use of water for the University, respectfully report:
That they have received a deed from the Trustees of the Ann
Arbor Land Company to the Regents of the University for the
grounds selected by them, with an endorsement thereon by the Directors of the Company, directing the Trustees to make said conveyances; and that in addition to this, they have received a Warranty Deed from the individuals composing said Company, which together in the opinion of the Committee, fully conveys to the Regents
the said lands.
The Committee have also received from the proprietors of the
lands, the privilege of taking and using all water necessary for the
University, and its purposes, from springs on the land of Mr.
Wiley, on the east of the location, and through the intervening
lands, and also a deed from the Trustees and proprietors of the
Ann Arbor Water Company for the similar use of water from a
spring on the lands of Daniel B. Brown, on the west side of said
location, at the election of the Board of Regents; either of which
springs, in the opinion of your Committee, will furnish abundance
of water.
The Committee have been requested by the Ann Arbor Water
Company further to say that they will at all times be ready to unite
with the Regents in the construction of such aqueducts as may be
mutually advantageous to the proprietors and the University.
The Committee have also received from said Trustees their
agreement to use all reasonable diligence in causing the interior
streets upon said site to be vacated; and the Committee would further state, in reference to this matter, that said Trustees have agreed
to petition the Legislature at its present session, for the vacation
of said streets.
The Committee have also received from the Register of the
County of Washtenaw a certificate showing the record of a complete chain of title from the United States to the present grantors
of said lands, and the absence of any encumbrance.
(Signed) E. MUNDY, Chairman.
C)n motion of Judge AW!ilkins, the title deeds for the
grounds selected by the University, were accepted, and deposited with the Secretary of the Board, with directions to
have the same recorded in the proper office, and deposited
in the office of the Secretary of State, agreeably to the provision of the "Act to provide for the location of the University of Mlichigan."
Lieuenant-Governor Mundy presented to the Board two
deeds for conveying to the Board of Regents the right to




12           THIRD JUNE MEETING, 1837
use certain sprmigs for the use of the University. with a
view that the Board might elect which of the deeds they
w1ould accept.
On motion of Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, the further
consideration of the choice of the springs as conveyed, was
laid on the table. and the deeds deposited with the Secretary.
Judge WVilkins moved to reconsider the vote taken at the
last meeting, fixing the salaries of the Professors, wliich
motion was laid upon the table.
On motion, the Board adjourned to Saturday, the 21st
instant.
THIRD JUNE MEETING, 1837.
June 2Ist, I837.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: His Excellency, Governor Mason, Chancellor
Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Lyon, Crary, Wilkins,
Whittemore, and McClelland.
The following resolutions were adopted and ordered to
be published:
Resolved, Tlhat the following number of Branches of the University be established) as soon as the same can conveniently be done
with a due regard to the public interests, to wit:
One in the First Senatorial District;
One in the Second Senatorial District;
Two in the Third Senatorial District;
One in the Fourth Senatorial District;
Three in the Fifth Senatorial District.
Resolved, That the sum of $8,ooo be appropriated out of any
money in the Treasury, not otherwise appropriated, and accruing
from the interest of the University Fund, to aid in the payment of
salaries of competent teachers to be employed in the Branches when
established, and under such restrictions as the Board of Regents
may hereafter prescribe.
Resolved, That of the money appropriated for the support of
teachers in the Branches, each Branch shall receive ithe sum of
'$500 per year towards compensating the teachers therein employed,
and the residue of the said money shall be distributed to the Branches in proportion to the average number of students that have attended each Branch during the preceding year.
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
appoint a suitable agent to visit the different portions of the State,
for the purpose of making the necessary arrangements to put the
Branches in operation.




THIRD JUNE MEETING, 1837


I3


Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to establish at their discretion any of the Branches of the University
authorized by the foregoing resolutions, and to receive such donations from the citizens of the respective districts, as may be proffered for the purposes contemplated by this resolution.
Resolvcd, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
give notice to the public of their intention to locate the Branches
of the University contemplated, authorized by this Board and that
they invite donations from the different sections of the respective
districts, to aid in the accomplishment of the object.
Resolved, That the University shall be opened for the reception of students on the third Wednesday of September, i838.
Resolved, That the Chancellor of the University shall receive
$2500 per year; the Professors, $I8oo per year; and the Tutors, $800
per year; the salaries of the same to commence on the........
Wednesday of September, and to be paid...........
The followinc resolutions were also submitted, and laid
on the table:
Resolved, That the sum of $........... be appropriated for the
purchase of a Library, Philosophical Apparatus, and Mineralogical
Cabinet.
Resolved, That the Committee on Appointments be instructed
to invite...................... to accept the office of
Chancellor of the  University......................... the  office of
Professor of Political Economy,...................the office of
Professor of Moral P!hilosophy,........................the office of
Professor of Modern Languages......................the office of
Tutor of the Ancient and English Languages, and.................
of the Mathematics.
Resolved, That until otherwise ordained the Professor of Political Economy shall be also Professor of the Ancient and English Languages; the Professor of Moral Philosophy shall be also
Professor of Logic and Mental Philosophy; the Professor of Mathematics shall also be Professor of Natural Philosophy and of Civil
Engineering.
The following proposition was presented, to the Board:
I propose that the Regents shall have the use of the Academy.at Pontiac for five years for the purpose of establishing a Branch
of the University of Michigan.
I further propose that the Citizens of Pontiac shall give to
said University one acre of land in some convenient place in the
village of Pontiac as a site for a Branch, provided the buildings
for that purpose be erected thereon within five years from this
date.
G. O. VWHITTIMORE.
Detroit, June 2Ist, I837.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet again at the
Capitol in the City of Detroit, on the second Tuesday of
November next.




I4


NO TVEMBER MEETING, I837


NOVEMIBER MEETING, T837.
At a meeting of the Board of Regents of the University
of Michigan held pursuant to adjournment, at the Capitol
in the City of Detroit, on the 14th November, I837.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins, Adam, Norvell, and Schoolcraft.
Dr: Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, made the
follow\ing, report from  said Committee, accompanied by the
report of Dr. Gibson, the agent of the Board heretofore appointed:
The undersigned, a member of the Committee on University
Branches, has the honor to report the progress they have made in
carrying into effect the intentions of the Board of Regents, so far
as they were expressed in the Resolutions adopted at their session
in June last. A majority of your Committee met on the 22nd of
June at whicih time the circular enclosed was issued, and the resolution marked (A)1 w'as adopted. In pursuance of this resolution
the appointment of one agent authorized by the Board was offered
to the Reverend Gilbert Morgan, then in the City of Detroit, between whom and a member of the Committee the correspondence
herewith presented took place. As Mr. Morgan did not accept the
appointment tendered him by the Committee, it was deemed advisable to employ Dr. R. C. Gibson, of Monroe, 'to perform this service for the Board, who has done it to the entire satisfaction of
the Committee. This report is also laid before the Regents for
their consideration.
It will be seen on reference to Dr. Gibson's report that he recommends the establishment of three of the Branches in the Third
Senatorial District, instead of two, as contemplated by the resolutions of the 2Ist of June. This would leave but two to be located
in the Fifth District. In the expediency of this proposal the Committee fully concur.
In the exercise of the discretionary power bestowed upon the
Committee, they conferred in July last the appointment of "Principal of the Oakland Branch of the University of Michigan," upon
the Rev. G. P. Williams, who has had that Branch in successful
operation since the I5th of Sept. last.
At a meeting of your Committee August 24th, they passed the
annexed Resolutions (B)1 in relation to a System of Laws for t'he
Government of the Branch in Oakland and the compensation to
be allowed the Principal thereof.
The Committee have the honor to present to the Board for their
examination and decision in relation thereto, the following documents:
First. A System of Laws for the Government of the Oaklandl
Branch of the University of Michigan.
1 These Resolutions (A. B.) were not recorded in the Proceedings.




NO 0 EMBER 1MEETING, 1837


i5


Second. The Course of Studies to be pursued in the Department for the Education of Teachers.
Third. The Course of Studies preparatory to admission into
the University.
Fourth. A list of books permitted to be used in the Oakland County Branch.
They also lay before the Board, communications from the citizens of the following named places; asking for the establishment of
Branches of the University at the several points from whence they
come, viz.:-Manchester, Jackson, Tecumseh, Concord, Dearbornville, Newport, Berrien, Branch County, Bertrand, Ypsilanti, Mackinac, Palmer, Port Huron, Monroe, Grand Rapids, Allegan, Kalamazoo, and Grandville.
All which is respectfully submitted.
(Signed) Z. PITCHER,
Member Committee on Branches.
DR. GIBSON'S REPORT.
The undersigned, Agent of the Committee on Branches, begs
leave to report to the Regents of the University of Mic-higan, that
he has visited the different Counties in the State, and most of the
larger villages and important places, to present the subject to the
inhabitants and obtain the necessary information to enable the undersigned to recommend to the Regents, the most suitable locations
for the contemplated Branches of the University.
In making the selections herein recommended, the undersigned
has endeavored to consult the best interests of the community at
large, and to have the Branches placed at those points where the
greatest amount of good will be accomplished.
After a thorough examination and mature reflection and deliberation, the undersigned feels it to be his duty to recommend the
establishment of a Branch at each of the following places. The
reasons for this selection he w'ill be gratified to communicate to the
Regents in person at their meeting should they be pleased to require
his attendance.
One Branch of the University of Michigan to be located in the
City of Detroit; one, ditto, in the City of Monroe; one in the village of Palmer; one at Pontiac; one at Jacksonburgh; one at Kalamazoo; one at Niles; one at Grand Rapids.
All which is respectfully submitted,
(Signed) REUBEN C. GIBSON.
Mir. Norvell laid on the table the following resolution:
Resolved, That a Branch of the University be established at
Mackinac, in the Fifth Senatorial District.
On motion of Mr. Norvell, the "Committee on Branches" were instructed to present a condensed report of the
various propositions, made by the citizens of this State for
the establishment of Branches of the University.




NOVEMlBER /MEETING, 1837


)n motion of Lieutenant-(-overnor Mundy, the Board
proceeded to consider the lollowingo resolution offered by
AMr. \Wilkins on the 7th.of Tun~ last:
Resolved, That Chief Justice Fletcher, Lieutenant-Governor
Mundy, and Dr. Denton, be, and they are hereby appointed a select
Committee to take charge of the University Grounds, to have the
same appropriately fenced in, and to make the necessary contracts
for lumber-and a suitable quantity of stone and brick.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, said resolution
was so miodified as to read as follows:
Resolved, That so much of the sum heretofore appropriated by
the Board for ornamenting the University Grounds, and fencing the
same, as may be necessary, be expended under the direction of
Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chief Justice Fletcher, and Dr. Denton.
Dr. Pitcher laid on the table a Code of Laws for the
Grovernment of the Oakland Branch; also, a list of the
books directed to be used, and Course of Instruction in the
several Branches.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth,
Resolved, That a Committee be appointed to report to the
Board the mode and manner of drawing money from the Treasury,of the University.
On motion of M\r. Adam,
Resolved, That the laws reported by the Committee on Branches
for the government of Oakland Branch be referred to a Select Committee of three members, with instructions to adapt the same to the
Branches generally.
M.essrs. Adam   and Schoolcraft and Dr. Pitcher were
appointed said Committee.
AMr. Wilkins laid on the table the following resolutions:
Resolved, That two additional Branches of the University be
and are hereby authorized to be located in the Third Senatorial District.
Resolved, That Branch No. I in said District be located at......... in the County of........... that Branch No. 2 in said
District be located at.......... in the County of.......... and
that Branch No. 3 in said District be located at.......... in the,County of.......... and that Branch No'. 4 be located at.........
in the County of...........
And then the Board adjourned to meet again on the i8th
instant at the Capitol in the City of Detroit.




SECOND NO VEMI BER MEETING, 1837


17


SECOND      NOVEMVIBER      MEETING,.1837.
I8th November, I837.
The Board met pursuant to, adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Schoolcraft, Norvell, Wilkins, and Adam.
kMr. Schoolcraft submitted    the following   resolutions,
which were adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on the Library, Philosophical
Apparatus, and Cabinet of Natural History, be directed to inquire
into the following subjects.
First. The expediency of employing, at the earliest practicable
period, a suitable agent to visit Europe for the purpose of procuring the necessary Philosophical Apparatus and standard books
for the University.
Second. The propriety of instituting such inquiries and taking
such preliminary steps as may be proper, to lay the foundation of a
suitable collection of specimens for the University Cabinet, in the
various departments of Natural History.
Third. Of calling the attention of the Executive to the propriety of directing the State Geologist to secure the large mass of
native copper on the shores of Lake Superior for the University
Cabinet, and of recommending that the expense of its transportation
be paid out of the University Funds.
Dr. Pitcher presented    a communication from      D. B.
Crane, which was laid on the table.
Dr. Pitcher submitted agreeably to the resolution adopted at the last meeting an abstract of the propositions made
by the citizens of the     State  for the   establishment of
Branches.
Mr. Wilkins submitted the following Proceedings of the
Board of Trustees of the University of Michigan:
At a session of the Trustees of the University of Micihigan
held on the I7th day of March, I837, were present, John R. Williams, Solomon Sibley, Jonathan Kearsley, John McDonell, Peter
J. Desnoyers, John Norvell, and Ross Wilkins.
On motion of M\ajor Kearsley the following resolutions
were adopted:
Resolved, That for the purpose of procuring the establishment
of a Branch of the University of Michigan in or near the City
of Detroit, the Trustees of this Board hereby authorize the President pro telnpore by lease or otherwise to grant to the Regents of.the University of Michigan for the term of five years the lot of




IS  SECOND NOT VEMlBER MEETING, 1837


ground called the "Academy Lot," with the buildings thereon, reserving therefrom thirty feet by fifty upon the corner of Lamed
and Bates Streets, for the purpose of a City Fire Engine House.
Provided, however,:that should five years be too short a time to
enable the said Regents to purchase a site and erect the necessary
buildings for such Branch out of the funds equitably apportioned
to this Branch, this grant shall extend to a period not exceeding
ten years.
Resolved, That Peter J. Desnoyers, Esq., be a Committee on
behalf of the Trustees of the University of Michigan to transfer
to the Regents of the (New) University of Michigan the sum of
$5249.85 with the interest due thereon as per certificate of deposit
of the Bank of Michigan, dated May 13, 1837, being the proceeds
of the land heretofore conveyed to William Oliver.
Resolved, That Judge Wilkins be a Committee of this Board
to communicate the above resolutions to the Regents of said University.
From the Journal of said Board.
(Signed) G. MOTTr WILLIAMS,
Secretary.
Mr. Wilkins submnitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That Chancellor Farnsworth and Dr. Pitcher be and
they are hereby authorized to confer with and receive from the
President pro tern. of the Board of Trustees of the University of
Michigan, in behalf of the Regents of the University of Michigan
the lease of the Academy Lot in the City of Detroit, and that the
Committee on Branches immediately thereafter proceed to organize
a Branch of the University in the City of Detroit.
Mr. Wilkins submitted the following' resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Treasurer of the Board of Regents is hereby empowered to receive from the Committee of the Trustees of the
University of Michigan the sum of money now on deposit in the
Bank of Michigan with the interest that has accrued thereon, directed by a resolution of the said Trustees to be transferred to the
Regents of the University and to transfer the same to the Superintendent of Public Instruction with direction 'to d'ispose of the
same according to the act of the Legislature, entitled, "An Act to
provide for the disposition of the University and Primary School
Lands, and for other purposes," passed the 2Ist of March, 1837.
Chancellor Farnsworth from the Committee appointed at
the last meeting to report upon the mode and manner of
drawing money from the Treasury, made the following report which was adopted:
The Committee to whom was referred the subject of making
payments of appropriations made by the Regents, report that they.have. examined the several Acts bearing upon this subject, and are
of opinion that warrants for the several appropriations and liabili



SEC'COND NOT VE/IBER MlEETING, 1837


I9


ties of the University should be drawn by the President of the
Board upon the Treasurer of the University, and that each warrant
should be countersigned by the Secretary, and that the Secretary
shall keep a record of each warrant issued in a regular book to be
kept by him for that purpose.
Lieutenant-Governor Mundy submitted the following report, which was adopted:
The Committee to wlhom was referred the subject of the Library, Philosophical Apparatus, and Cabinet of Natural History, regret to say that from various causes they have not been able to
make much progress in the important duty assigned to them. Without procuring means and without instructions, the most the Committee have felt themselves authorized to do was to prepare a catalogue of books for the Library, and by correspondence to endeavor
to learn where, upon what 'terms, and the best mode in which the
Board of Regents might provide a suitable Library, Philosophical
Apparatus, and Cabinet of Natural History; and even this from
their distant separation they have not been able much to accomplish. Your Committee have examined a correspondence submitted
to them by the Secretary of the Board between that gentleman and
Dr. Torrey of the City of New York relative to a Cabinet of Minerals owned by L. Lederer, of that City, and have seen,letters from
Mr. Lederer to Dr. Torrey and Major Whipple stating;the terms
upon which Mr. Lederer would dispose of his Cabinet; and the favorable opinion of some scientific gentlemen of its value.
This Cabinet consists of about 2600 specimens of foreign minerals, many of them said to be rare, and perhaps not elsewhere to
be obtained. The price asked by Mr. Lederer 'is $4500, which in
the opinion of Dr. Torrey is "rather high, but perhaps not above
their real value, especially to a public institution." Mr. Lederer is
anxious to sell upon favorable terms of credit. Your Committee
would recommend that some suitable person in the City of New
York be employed to examine this Cabinet and make some arrangements for the purchase of it.
On motion, it was,
Resolved, That Judge Wilkins, Chancellor Farnsworth, and
Lieutenant-Governor Mundv be a Committee to take into consideration the legal rights of the Trustees of the University of Michigan and how far it is practicable to alter by legislative enactment
the organization of that Board so as to constitute the Board of
Regents of the University of Michigan the Trustees of the University of Michigan.
Mr. Adalm, from the Committee to which was referred
the Code of Laws for the Government of the Oakland
Branch of the University of Michigan, reported the same
back with sundry amendments all of which were read and
laid on the table.




20      SECOND ANO VEMBER M\         EETING, 1837
The Board then proceeded to consider the report of the
Committee on Branches and Dr. Gibson's report.       On motion, it was
Resolved, That so much of said reports as recommend the establishment of Branches of the University at Detroit, Monroe, Pontiac, Jacksonburgh, Kalamazoo, and Grand Rapids be adopted.
On motion of MAr. Adam      the word Niles was stricken
out and White Pigeon was inserted in place thereof.
The further consideration of the reports was then postponed.
On motion of Mr. Schoolcraft the resolution heretofore
offered by Mr. Norvell directing the establishment of a
Branch of the University at MAackinac was taken up and
adopted.
Mr. Wilkins laid on the table the following resolution:
Resolved, That a Branch of the University be and hereby is
located at ithe village of Allegan in the County of Allegan, to be
organized and go into operation as soon as this Board is ascertained to be in possession of the necessary funds.
Mr. Norvell laid on the table the following resolution:
Resolved, That a, branch of the University of Michigan be established at the village of Utica in tihe Fifth Senatorial District, as
soon as the people of the vicinity shall provide a suitable lot and
building for the purpose and apprise the Regents of the fact.
Mr. Adam laid on the table the following resolution:
Resolved, That no Branch shall be established until a deed of
a suitable quantity of land) shall be executed to the Board of Regents, and security given for the erection of the necessary buildings
thereon, and for the donation of $Ioo.oo for the foundation of a
Branch Library; the security ito be approved of by the Committee
on Branches or their agent, and the donation for the Library to be
expended under their direction.
Charles C. Trowbridge, Esq., having declined thei appointment of Treasurer of the Board of Regents, John Norton, Jr., Esq., was duly appointed to that office.
M\r. Schoolcraft submitted     the  following  resolution
wThich was adopted:
Resolved, That in order to carry into effect the recommendation
of the Committee on the Library etc., the President of the Board of
Regents he directed to authorize Dr. John Torrey, of the City of
New York to examine Baron Lederer's Cabinet of Minerals, report upon its value, and make the necessary preliminary arrangements for its purchase.




THIRD NOT7IEMBER MEETING, I837


21


Dr. Pitcher submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That a select committee be appointed to examine that
part of the collection made by the State Geologist of Zoological
specimens, and report what measures ought to be adopted' to secure
their preservation, and also to report upon the propriety of making
an appropriation to enable the State Geologist to procure duplicate
specimens of birds in order that the Regents by exchanges may obtain foreign specimens of the same class.
Dr. Pitcher, Chancellor Farnsworth, and Mr. Wilkins
were appointed the Committee contemplated by the foregoing' resolution.
The Board then adjourned to meet again on the 23rd
instant.
THIRD NOVEMlBER MEETING, 1837.
23rd November, 1837.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor IMundy,
Chancellor Farnsworth, Chief Justice Fletcher, D'r. Pitcher,
and Messrs. Schoolcraft, Wilkins, WVhittemore, and Adam.
The Board proceeded to consider the report made at
the last meeting by Mr. Adam    from  the select Committee
to which was referred the Code of Laws, etc., and adopted
the same as follows:
LAWS FOR THE BRANCHES OF THE UNIVERSITY.
CHAPTER I.
Of the Goverlnmllet.
I. The executive authority for the government of:the Branches
of the University shall be vested in the Principal and such other
instructors as the Regents shall associate with him for that purpose
who shall be styled the Immediate Government of the..........
Branch of the University of Michigan. It shall be their duty to
educate and instruct the students in the several departments of
learning directed to be taught in the Branches of the University,
to encourage them in the acquisition of knowledge and the practice of virtue, to counsel and warn the offending andl faithfully administer the laws established by the Regents.
2. The Principal may convene meetings of the Immediate Government for business, at which he shall preside; and a majority of
the members shall constitute a quorum.
3. The Principal shall faithfully record all acts of the Immediate Government, and his government shall be open to the inspection of the Regents, or of the respective Board of Visitors, whenever either body shall desire it.




22   THIRD NOTVEMBER MEETING, 1837


4. The Principal shall keep a book in which he shall register
the name and age of each student, the date of the admission of
each, together with the name and residence of his parent or guardian (noting particularly whether they be citizens of this State or
not) and the time and circumstances of their leaving the Institution.
5. The Principal shall report to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction and Board of Regents within ten: days after the commencement of each term, the number of students in attendance, the
various studies pursued by them, the number pursuing each particular branch, the manner in which they are studied, the number
of Instructors employed, the aggregate time devoted by all Instructors, the time devoted by each, the manner in which each discharged his duty, the success of their instruction, together with all
such other particulars as the Superintendent or Board, of Regents
may specially require; and he shall also make such suggestions for
improvement in the method of instruction and internal economy of
the Institution as may occur to him.
6. Whenever any Branch of the University shall be fully established, and annually thereafter, the Regents shall appoint for
such Branch, a Board of Viisitors, five in number, whose duty it
shall be to superintend a public examination of the students at the
close of each term, and to report to the Regents the results of each
sucdh examination, recommending any alterations which they might
deem beneficial in the laws, government, discipline, Course of
Studies, or other matters appertaining to their particular Branch
or the Branches generally.
7. All questions relating to the general administration of each
Branch, arising between members.of the Immediate Government, or
between the Immediate Government and students, their parents or
guardians, shall be submitted to the Board of Visitors, to be by
them decided, subject to an appeal to the Board of Regents; and
a meeting of the Board of Visitors may at any time be convened
by the Principal, or by any two of their number, by giving reasonable notice of the time and place for such meeting.
8. A Treasurer for each Branch shall in like manner be appointed annually by the Board of Regents, who shall enter into
such bonds as they shall prescribe, with security to be approved by
the Principal and the Board of Visitors, for the faithful disbursement or rendition of all moneys mhich may come into his hands
by virtue of his office, and for the faithful discharge of' the duties
which may devolve upon him in consequence of such trust.
CHAPTER 2.
Of Admission into the University.
I. Every applicant, in order to his admission as a student
in any Branch of the University, must produce satisfactory evidence
that he sustains a good moral character, and undergo in the presence, and to the satisfaction of the Board of Visitors, or a committee of their number, an approved examination, by the Principal, in
Reading, Spelling, Writing, the Elements of English Grammar,
Geography, and Arithmetic.
2. The regular time for admission shall be at the commencement of each term, and none can be admitted for a shorter period
than one term: Provided, That the Principal and Board of Visitors
may, in their discretion, admit students during the term.




THIRD NOVEMBER MlEETING, 1837


23
1)


3. Tuition shall in all cases be paid in advance to the Treasurer of the Branch, or satisfactory security be given for its payment at the close of the term.
4. The Laws for the Government of the Institution shall be
publicly read in the audience of all the students on the first Monday
in each month, and no plea of ignorance of any of them shall be
admitted in extenuation of their violation.
CHAPTER 3.
Studies aizd E.vamiznation.
I. The studies pursued in the Institution shall embrace, Reviews of English Grammar, Geography and Arithmetic, and such
branches in the departments of English Literature, Mathematics and
Physics, the Languages, and Intellectual, Political, and Moral Science as shall be necessary to qualify young men for the University,
for teaching, or for business.
2. No text-books shall be used except those authorized by the
IRegents.
3. The arrangement of studies and the appointment of all exercises in them shall be under the direction of the Principal.
CHAPTER 4.
Vacatiolns, Buildings, etc.
I. Vacations shall be from the isth of August to the i5th of
September; and from the 24th of December to the 8th of January;
and from the I5th of April to the Ist of May; and no holidays shall
be allowed during either of the terms, the 4th of July excepted.
2. No student shall absent himself from  the Institution in
term without permission from the Principal.
3. No student shall occupy a room in the buildings of the Institution or change his room or make alterations or repairs, without leave from the Principal.
4. All damages done to the property of the Institution shall
be repaired at the expense of the aggressors if they are ascertained;
otherwise at the expense of all the students. Offences against cleanliness shall be regarded as damages.
5. The Principal and the Board of Visitors appointed by the
R.egents, shall inspect the buildings, at least once in each term, to
take note of all suchl violations and make assessment of damages
accordingly.
6. The Treasurer shall employ suitable persons to procure
wood, ring the bell, and perform  other necessary offices; the expense of which shall be defrayed out of moneys arising from tuition fees.
CHAPTER 5.
Houlrs of Study, Religious Exercises
and General Deportmenlt.
i. To prevent unnecessary interruptions of study, the time
from sunrise to breakfast; from 8 o'clock A. M. till 12 M; from
2 till 5 P. M., and during the Autumnal and Winter terms from half
past 6 till 9 P. M. shall be specially regarded as hours of study,
and during these hours each student is required to attend to his




24     THIRD NTOTEEM[BER MEETING, 1837


duties as a member of the Institution, and avoid, every'thing which
may interfere with the duties of others.
2. The exercises of each day shall be opened with the reading
of the Scriptures and prayer, at which time every student, unless
specially excused by the Principal or at the request of the parent
or guardian, shall be present. Every student shall also attend such
place or places of public worship, on such day or days of the week,
as his parent or guardian shall designate, and during those days.so
set apart, nothing may be done by any student which shall disturb
the religious exercises of any other.
3. Monitors shall be appointed by the Principal, who shall report all absences from religious exercises and tardiness!at the same,
which together with absences from recitation, and other omissions
of duty shall be noted and registered by the Government.
4. It shall be the duty of each student, whenever he may
have an excuse for any apparent violation of the laws of the Institution, voluntarily to offer the same to the Principar.
5. The conduct of the students towards all men, and particularly towards their instructors, is to be regulated by those plain
rules of politeness, honor, and religion, which are binding on every
free and virtuous community. They shall conform to every requisition of the officers of the Institution which may arise from their
relations as instructors and counsellors, and as upright and good
citizens they are required to use all lawful exertions to prevent and
expose all violations of the laws of God, and the country, and
whatever is at variance with 'the objects of the University.
6. In order that the Government of the Institution may be
enabled, the more effectually, to guard the students from evil, no
student from abroad may board or reside in any place disapproved
of by them, and any of them shall be readily admitted into the
room of any such student at any time, and into the rooms of all
students occupying rooms in the buildings of the University, and
if not admitted, an entrance by force may be made, and all damages
thence arising shall be paid by the student offending. Everything
in the building of the Institution shall be accessible to an officer.
7. Penalties, in cases of pupils not more than fourteen years
of age, and when the misdemeanor does not require suspension from
the privileges of the University, shall be at the discretion of the
Instructors, subject to the control of the Principal. In all cases
when a student, after repeated counsel and warning from the Government appears to be incorrigibly indolent, troublesome, or vicioius
and is, in the opinion of two-thirds of the officers, an injurious member of the Institution, notice shall be given to his parent or guardian,
and his connection with the University dissolved.
8. At the close of each term, a condensed statement of the
results of those records which go 'to designate the conduct and attainments of each student, shall be transmitted to their respective
parents or guardians.
9. On the penult day of each term, honors shall be awarded
by the students of each class by ballot to those who shall be adjudged to stand in their respective classes, first and second highest,
as follows:
Ist. For uniform correct deportment and regularity of attendance.
2nd. For general excellence in the exercises of their class.




THIRD NTOVEMI1BER M11EETING, 1837


25


Honors shall at the same time be likewise awarded by the
Principal or immediate Instructor of the class, for excellence int
translations, compositions or other special exercises to be designated by the teacher of the class. And the Principal shall cause
the names, with the honors awarded, to be published in one or
more of the newspapers of 'the County or district where the Branch'
shall be located.
CHAPTER 6.
Of Term Bills.
I. The charges for tuition for each student, iwho is a citizen
of the State, shall be $Io. per Academic years except in the Branches in the Cities of Detroit and Monroe, where said charge shall be
$15. per annum; and one dollar of such tuition fees shall be appropriated for the increase of the Branch Library.
2. If a student shall leave, or be dismissed before the middle
of the term, he shall be charged for one half of the same; and if
after the middle, for the whole.
3. If a student, not having received a dismission, absent himself for one whole term, he shall be deemed thereby to have relinquished his connection with the University, and no charges shall be,
made against him after that term.
CHAPTER 7.
Of Dismissioins.
I. Any student, not a minor, or whose parent or guardian requests it, may have a certificate of dismission under the signature of
the Principal, if he sustains a good character, and all dues to the
University are satisfied; but the certificate may not contain anything respecting his scholarship unless he be examined for that
purpose.
CHAPTER 8.
Of the Library.
I. The Library of each branch shall be open to the students
and officers thereof, under such regulations and by-laws as shalt
be prescribed by the Principal, and approved by the Board of Visitors.
LIST OF TEXT-BOOKS FOR THE BRANCHES OF THE.
UNIVERSITY.
English Language anld Literature:
Webster's English Grammar.
Grinshaw's History of the United States.
Grinshaw's History of England.
Pinnock's Goldsmith's Rome.
Pinnock's Goldsmith's Greece.
Tytler's Universal History.
Kames' Elements of Criticism.
Porter's Rhetoric Reader.
Newman's Rhetoric.




26    THIRD NOVTEMBER MIEETING, 1837


Mlathlemaatics and Physics:
Davies' Arithmetic.
Davies' Bourdon's Algebra.
Davies' Legendre's Geometry.
Davies' Surveying.
Davies' Descriptive Geometry.
Bridges' Conic Sections.
Olmstead's Natural Philosophy.
WVoodbridge and Willard's Geography.
Jones' Chemistry (Conversations).
Smellies' Philosophy of Natural History.
Marsh's Book Keeping.
Gregory's Mathematics for Practical Men.
Comstock's Mineralogy.
Comstock's Geology.
Comstock's Physiology.
Lanlguages:
De Lacy's General Grammar.
Andrews and Stoddard's Latin Grammar.
Andrews and Stoddard's Reader.
Latin Tutor.
Phoedrus' Fables, Cicero's Orations.
Vlirgil, Sallust, Livy.
Cicero's Tusculan Questions.
Cicero de Officiis.
Horace, Tacitus.
Dellaway's Roman Antiquities.
Goodrich's Greek Grammar.
Valpy's Greek Exercises.
Jacob's Greek Reader.
Greek Testament, Graeca Majora.
Cleveland's Grecian Antiquities.
Intellectlal, Political and M1/oral Science.
WThately's Logic.
Abercrombie's Intellectual Philosophy.
Abercrombie's Moral Philosophy.
Duer's Outlines of Constitution.
Conversations upon Political Economy.
McVickar's Political Economy.
Mcllvaine's Evidences of Christianity.
WVayland's Moral Science.
STUDIES.
FIRST YEAR. ERuglish.
Termis.
Ist. Arithmetic, simple numbers.
Geography, Math. and Physical, to structure of Earth.
History, United States.
2nd. Arithmetic, denominate numbers.
Geography, questions on maps and drawing.
History, Unlitedl States (completed).
3rd. Arithmetic, through denominate fractions.
Geography, Physical, to grand divisions of Earth.
History, England.




THIRD NOVEMBER MEETING, I837


27


Latin.
1st. Grammar.
Exercises, Latin Forms.
2nd. Grammar, Etymology reviewed.
Exercises, Latin Forms.
Reader (finished).
Greek.
SECOND YXEAR. EiZglish.
Ist. Arithmetic, through Reduction of Currencies.
Geography, Physical completed.
History, Roman, through Geography of Empire.
7 'eris.
2nd. Arithmetic, through equations of Payments.
Geography, Civil, to National Character.
History, Roman Commonwealth.
3rd. Arithmetic, completed.
Geography, Civil, completed.
History, Roman Empire.
Latin.
Ist. Grammar, Etymology and Syntax reviewed, and Prosody.
Exercises, continued.
Phcedrus.
2nd. Grammar, reviewed.
Exercises, continued.
Phcedrus (finished), Cicero's Orations.
3rd. Cicero, finished.
Exercises, continued.
Translations from Latin into English.
Greek.
Ist. Grammar.
Exercises, Greek Forms.
2nd. Grammar, Etymology reviewed.
Exercises, Greek Forms.
Reader, to contract Verbs.
3rd. Grammar, Reviewed.
Exercises, syntax.
Reader, to Mythological Dialogues.
THIRD YEAR. English.
Ist. Geography, Statistical, through Western Hemisphere.
Rhetorical exercises, inflection.
History, Grecian.
2nd. Geography, statistical, completed.
Rhetorical exercises, Emphasis.
History, Grecian, completed.
3rd. Arithmetic, reviewed.
Geography, Ancient.
Rhetorical exercises, Modulation.
Latin.
Ist. Grammar, Prosody.
Virgil, Bucolics, and three books Aeneid.
Exercises and Translations.




28      71' fRD NTOT/EM/BER M'IEETING, 1837


I/ Cr11iS.
2nd. Virgil, 4, 5 and 6 Aeneid, and Georgics.
Exercises, Prosody.
Translations, etc.
3rd. Review of Latin.
Greek.
Ist. Grammar reviewed, Prosody.
Exercises, continued.
Reader (finished).
2nd. Grammar, reviewed.
Exercises, continued.
New Testament, Gospel of John and Acts.
3rd'. Review of Greek.
DEPARTMENT FOR THE EDUCATION OF TEACHERS.
STUDIES.
ENGLISH LITERATURE.
FIRST YEAR.
TermPs.
ist. English Langua-e. and Rhetorical Exercises.
2nd. History of the United States.
3rd. General History (commenced).
SECOND YE^AR.
Ist. History, continued. Elocution and Composition.
2nd. Rhetoric and Composition. History continued.
3rd. Elocution and Composition.
THIRD YEAR.
Ist. Elocution and Composition.
2nd. Elocution and Composition.
3rd. History reviewed. Composition.
MATHEMATICS AND PHYSICS.
FIRST YEAR.
ist. Arithmetic, reviewed.
2nd. Geography, including use of Globes, and construction of
maps. Bookkeeping.
3rd. Drawing and Algebra (commenced).
SECOND YEAR.
Terms.
Ist. Algebra, finished and Geometry commenced.
2nd. Practical Geometry finished. Mathematics commenced. Animal Physiology.
3rd. Practical Mathematics (finished).
THIRD YEAR.
Ist. Natural Philosopihy, commenced.
2nd. Natural Philosophy (finished). Chemistry of VegetablePhysiology.




THIRD 0NOVE1MBER MJEETING, 1837


29


INTELLECTUAL, POLITICAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
SECOND YEAR.
3rd. Logic.
THIRD YEAR.
Ist. Political Economy and Evidences of Christianity.
2nd. Outlines of Constitutions.
3rd. Intellectual and Moral Philosophy and art of teaching.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth,
Ordered that 500 copies of the Code of Laws for the
Government of the Branches of the University be published under the direction of the said Committee.
Dr. Pitcher submitted a communication from the Rev.
J. I-. Agnew1 which was read and laid on the table.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from    Samuel
Ward and Dr. Northrop, also from H. L. Stewart, respect 
ing the establishment of Branches, which were severally
read and laid on the table.
Chancellor Farnsworth submitted the following resolution which was adopted:
Resolved, That the President of this Board be and he is hereby authorized to issue his warrant upon the Treasurer of the University in favor of the Principal of the Branch at Pontiac for
$333.33, being for his salary for the first term of said branch, and
that said warrant bear interest until a sufficient sum shall be in the
treasury to meet said warrant.
The Board then proceeded to' appoint five visitors and
a Treasurer for the Branch of the Jniversity established at
Pontiac, whereupon Randolph Manning, Isaac W. Ruggles,
Sherman Stevens, Daniel LeRoy and Origen D. Richardson were appointed visitors, and Olmsted Chamberlain,
Treasurer.
On motion ordered that said Treasurer execute a bond
in the sum of $20,o0o agreeably to section 8th, Chapter ist,
of the Laws for the Government of the Branches.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, the resolution submitted by Mr. Adam on the I8th instant, prescribing the
conditions upon which Biranches of the University shall be
established, was referred to the Committed on Branches.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
1Afterwards Professor of Greek in the University, 1845-I852.




30   THIRD NO VEMBER ML EETING, 1837


Resolved, That the President of the Board be directed to issue
his warrant upon the Treasurer of this corporation for $333-33,
bearing interest to pay the salary of R. C. Gibson, the Agent of the
Board from the Ist day of July to the ist day of November, I837,
provided, however, that no interest shall be paid on said warrant
after a sufficient sum shall be in the Treasury to pay the same.
Dr. Pitcher from the Committee heretofore appointed to
examine that part of the collection made by the State Geologist of Zoological specimens, etc., made the following report:
From an estimate made on data furnished by the State GeoIog:ist, the committee have arrived at the conclusion that in the section of Ornithology alone, the State of Michigan will yield from
three hundred and fifty to four hundred species. Counting duplicates of these to embrace the sexes, we shall have from seven to
eight hundred individuals. Many of these individuals molt twvice
in the year; hence it becomes necessary to exhibit the same bird,
both in summer and winter plumage. A complete collection, therefore, of Mich;igan birds will contain at the lowest estimate, one
thousand specimens.  One-fourth of this number has been obtained, and the hunters employed are sending in about one hulndrec
and fifty per month. Tihe Committee are of opinion (as it is
necessary for their preservation) that the specimens appertaining to
the University should be stuffed and set up in cases. To do this,
and go on with the collection of quadrupeds, fishes, and reptiles,
involves the necessity of.a heavy expenditure. We are informed
by the State Geologist that the appropriation heretofore made by
the Legislature, will not enable him to meet the current expenses
of the scientific corps under his direction, and make the disbursements requisite to keep in service his ornithological assistant. Wihen
the Committee take into consideration how important 'it will be to
the University to have in its possession so complete a collection of
subjects of Natural Science and of such as are indigenous to the
State and how difficult and expensive it will be to procure it, if we
permit the present opportunity to pass by unimproved, they feel
disposed earnestly to urge the Board of Regents to co-operate with
the State Geologist, in the adoption of means to accomplish an object of so much interest to the University and of utility to the
public at large. As there are no funds in the corporation applicable
at this time to the purpose under consideration, the committee
thought it would be expedient to recommend that this Board adopL
some mode expressing to the Legislature its conviction to the
necessity of placing at the disposal of the State Executive a larger
fund, in order that the State Survey, so well begun, so important
to agriculture, to science and the arts may be concluded -in a manner
honorable to its projectors, and creditable to the State which has
thus far sustained them. In accordance with this view the committee offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the President of the Board of Regents be requested in his capacity to communicate to the Legislature the proceedings of this body on the subjects embraced in the foregoing
report.
Signed. Z. PITCHER,
Chairman of the Committee.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1837                       31
On motion the Report and Resolution were adopted:
Mr. WTilkins moved to reconsider the vote upon striking out the word "Niles" and inserting the words "White
Pigeon," in lieu thereof in the report of the Committee on
Branches, which motion was laid on the table.
The Board then adjourned to meet again on the 2nd
December.
DECEMBER MEETING, I837.
2nd December, 1837.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor AMason, Lieutenant-Governor lAMundy,
Chancellor Farnsworth, Chief Justice Fletcher, Justice Morell, Dr. Pitcher, and MAessrs. Wilkins and Adam.
Dr. Pitcher from the Committee on Branches to which
was referred the resolution of Mrr. Adam     prescribing the
conditions upon which Branches of the tUniversity should be
establisled, submitted the following and resolution; which
were severally adopted:
Dec. 2nd, I837.
The Committee on Branches to whom was referred the resolution offered by Mr. Adam. prescribing the conditions on which the
Branches of the University shall be established at the several places
selected by the Board of Regents, have had the same under consideration, and report it back to the Board so amended as to read
as follows:
Resolved, That no Branch of the University shall be established until a deed of a suitable quantity of land shall be executed
by some authorized person or persons, at the places designated by
the Board of Regents in favor of this corporation, and security
given for the erection of the necessary buildings thereon; the site
selected and the security given to be approved of by the Committee
on Branches or such agent as the Committee may employ for that
purpose.
The Committee have stricken out that part of the Resolution
in relation to a donation for a library, because part of the tuition
tax is already pledged to that object; and also because it appeared
to them that parents or guardians would be more willing to purclhase the necessary class books themselves for their sons than
they would to place the amount necessary to procure them into the
hands of an officer of this Institution.
The Academy Lot in this city having been given to the Trustees
of the University of Michigan for the purposes of education, and
the building thereon erected by voluntary subscription on the part
of the Citizens of Detroit, it seems to the Committee that the spirit
of the proposed resolution has already been complied with at this
place, and that no change in its phraseology need be made to adopt
it to Detroit.




.32  SECOND DECEMBER MEETINTG, 1837


Although the proposal of Mr. Whittemore was accepted on. the
2Ist of June, he coincided in opinion with the other member of the
Committee that Pontiac should also become subject to the conditions of this Resolution.
The Board then proceeded to consider further the report of the Committee on Branches and Dr. Gibson's report,
when on motion said reports were laid on the table.
Mr. Adam offered the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That until the further order of the Board, the Committee on Branches are instructed to put into operation not more
than the four Branches established at, Detroit, Monroe, Pontiac,.and Kalamazoo.
Judoe WVilkins called up the resolution heretofore laid
on the table directing the establishment of a Branch at Allegan, w`hich, after being considered, was laid on the table.
On motion ordered that Chancellor Farnsworth and.Messrs. Schoolcraft and Wilkins be appointed a Committee on Finance.
The Board then adjourned to meet again on the 5th
instant.
SECOND DECEMBER MEETING, 1837.
Tuesday, 5th December, I837.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Fresei t: Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, Messrs. Vilkins, Schoolcraft, and Adam.
The Governor being absent, the Lieutenant-Governor
took the chair.
Judge Wilkins called up the motion to reconsider the
vote upon striking out the word "Niles" and inserting
"White Pigeon" in the report of the Committee on Branches.
The motion to reconsider was agreed to.
The question recurring on striking out "Niles" and inserting "White Pigeon,," Mr. Adam moved to amend the
motion by inserting "Centerville" in lieu of "White Pigeoln,"
which was agreed to.
The question then recurring upon striking out "Niles"
and inserting "Centerville" it was agreed to: so that a




JANUARY MEETING, i838


33


Branch of the University was directed to be established at,Centerville.
Onr motion of Mr. Wilkins the Committee appointed to
improve the University Grotinds were instructed to authorize the owners of the buildings on the grounds to, remove
the same at any time within one year.
The Board then adjourned to meet again on the 6th
January.
JANUARY MEETING, 1838.
January 6th, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Chancellor Farnsworth, Chief Justice Fletcher, Mr. Justice
Ransom, Dr. Pitcher,, and Messrs. Schoolcraft and Adam.
Dr. Pitcher presented a petition from sundry inhabitants
of Grand Rapids prayingp for the appointment of the Rev.
James Bullard to superintend the same, which was laid on
the table.'
A communication was then read from Baron Lederer
of New York proposing to sell to the Board of Regents of
the University of Michigan a Cabinet of Foreign Minerals;
also stating the terms of sale.
On motion of Mr. Schoolcraft it was
Resolved, That the President of the Board be and he is hereby
authorized in behalf of the Board to purchase of Baron Lederer
the said Cabinet upon the terms proposed in his letter of December
iitih, I837, to Dr. John Torrey of New York, the agent of the Board
and further to execute and dleliver in behalf of the Board of Regents of said University the necessary bonds according to the terms
proposed in said letter.
Mr. Adam presented the commission of Zeba Murphy,
Esquire, of Monroe County as a member of the Board in
the place of Robert McClelland, Esquire, resigned; whereupon Mr. Murphy appeared, was qualified, and took his seat
as a member of the Board.
Lieutenant-Governor M\[undy presented petitions from
sundry inhabitants of the County of St. Clair praying for
the establishment of a Branch at the village of New Port,
in said county; which were read and laid upon the table.
1 This is the language of the MS.; but evidently some words were dropped,out in transcribing. The petition seems to have had reference to the establishment of a Branch at Grand Rapids.




34   SECOND JANUARY MEETING,.1838


On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth the Board ag;>
proceeded to the consideration of the Report of the Conmmittee'on Branches and Dr. Gibson's Report.
The question being on adopting so much of said report
as recommends the establishment of a Branch at the village'
of Palmer in-said County it was agreed to.
IMr. Adam  submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the President of the Board be and he is hereby
authorized to issue a warrant countersigned by the Secretary, upon
the Treasurer of the Board in favor of Messrs. Kingsbury and
Dally for the sum of thirty-two Dollars and! nine cents, balance due
for printing the Journals of the Board and the Laws for the Branches of the University.
The Board then adjourned to meet again on the Ioth
instant.
SECOND JANUARY M4EETING, 1838.
January Ioth, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Chief Justice Fletcher, Mr..
Justice Ransom, Messrs. Ross Wilkins, HI. R. Schoolcraft.
J. J. Adam, and Dr. Pitcher.
The following named persons were appointed a Board
of Visitors for the Monroe Branch of the University of
Michigan:
Moses B. Savage,
Isaac P. Skinner,
Luther Harvey,
Joseph G. Navarre,
Dan. B. Miller.
On motion, Henry Smith was appointed Treasurer of
said Branch.
On motion, it was also resolved, that the following persons be appointed a Board of Visitors for the Kalamazoo
Branch. viz.:
Abraham Edwards,
Charles E. Stewart,
Anthony Cooley,
Andrew G. Hammond,
Frederic W. Cartenius.




FEBRUARY MiLEETING, 1838


35


'T'lheodore P. Sheldon was appointed Treaurer of the
said(l Branch.
Thle followingo persons were also appointed a Board of
Visitors for the Detroit Branch of the University of Michigan, viz.:
Jonathan Kearsley,
C. C. Troivbridce.
B. F. H. Witherell.
Peter Morey,
Charles TMoran.
John Owen was appointed Treasurer of the aforesaid
Branch.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher it was
Resolved, That when the parents or guardians of children qualified to enter a Branch of the University are unable to pay the
amount charged for tuition in either of the Branches, the Principal
of such Branch together with the Board of Visitors on satisfactory
evidence shall have the power to remit the tuition fee and to admit
such children free of charge.
Resolved, That Messrs. Wilkins and J. J. Adam be a Committee
to examine the Journal of the Secretary, with a view to ascertain
whether it 'has been properly kept, and report 'to the Board of Regents at their next meeting.
The Board adjourned to meet again on the first Monday
in February at 3 o'clock P. M. at the Senate Chamber.
FEBRUARY MEETING, 1838.
Monday, February 5th, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present:   Governor Mason, Chancellor Farnsworth,
Chief Justice Fletcher, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins,
Schoolcraft, and Adam.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from      J. T.
Smith, Esqiure, requesting the appointment of a Professor
of Moral Philosophy which was referred, together with all
communications of a similar character, to the Committee on
the number of Professors, etc.
Mr. Wilkins from the Committee heretofore appointed
to examine the Journal of the Secretary, etc., made the following report, with the accompanying resolutions, which
were severally adopted.




36


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1838


The Committee to whom was referred the resolution of the last
meeting of the Board in relation to the Journal of the Secretary,
report, that in pursuance to the direction of the said resolution, the
Committee have had submitted to them and have examined the
Journal. All the Proceedings of the Board from its first meeting to
the present time are correctly and handsomely entered and are
highly satisfactory. The files of all resolutions and measures of tile
Board are safely and regularly kept, and every confidence is entertained in the ability, care, and fidelity of the Secretary. He has
been at the expense of providing an appropriate book for the minutes of the Board, and your Committee would recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, That the President of the Board of Regents draw
his warrant on the Treasurer in favor of the Secretary for the
amount of his bill for record book and other incidental expenses
incurred for the Board in the discharge of his duties as Secretary.
Chancellor Farnsworth submitted the following report
and resolutions, which were severally adopted.
The Committee appointed for the purpose of prescribing the
mode in which claims against the University may be adjusted and
paid, beg leave to report the following resolutions and recommend
their adoption:
Ist. Resolved, That a committee of three persons shall be appointed annually to be called the Committee of Auditors, two of
wlhom shall form a quorum, whose duty it shall be to examine all
claims against the University and who after examining each claim
shall endorse their certificate thereon signed by a majority of said
Committee, showing the amount they have found to be due to each
claimant.
2nd. Upon the production of such claim and certificate as
aforesaid the President of this Board may issue his warrant therefor to be countersigned by the Secretary and recorded as before
prescribed iby this Board; and no warrant shall be countersigned
and issued by the Secretary without taking the receipt of the claimant therefor, which, together with the certified voucher, shall be
filed and safely kept by him.
3rd. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Committee
of Auditors may appeal from their decision to the Board of Regents
at their next regular meeting.
4th. The Committee of Auditors are hereby empowered to set*tle and adjust the accounts of each Branch of the University with
the parent Institution, with the right of appeal as before provided.
The following persons were appointed auditors of the
Board, viz.: Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins and Schoolcraft.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Board be authorized to subscribe for one copy of Audubon's Ornithology for the use of the
University.




MARCH MIEEETING, 1838


37


On motion,
Resolved, That the salary of the Secretary, until otherwise
ordered, be fixed at Three hundred dollars per annum, payable quarterly.
On motion of M'r. Schoolcraft the Secretary was instructed to cause the Laws adopted for the Government of
the Branches to be republished. And the Board adjourned
to meet on the 3rd March.
MARCH MEETING, 1838.
March 3rd, 1838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
IPresent: Governor M ason, Lieutenant-Governor M\undy,
Chancellor Farnsworth, Chief Justice Fletcher, Mr. Justice
Morell. MAr. Justice Ransom, Dr. Pitcher, and M\essrs. W\Vilkins and Schoolcraft.
Dr. Pitcher submitted a letter from Charles Noble, Esq.,
of Monroe, in behalf of himself and others praying for the
organization of a Female Branch of the University. Referred to the Committee on Branches.
Mr. Adam submitted a communication from C. C. HIascall and others, praying for the organization of a Branch
of the University in the village of Flint, Genessee County.
Referred to the Committee on Branches.
Mr. Wilkins from the Committee to which was referred
sundry applications and recommendations for Professorships in the University, made the following report, which,
with the annexed resolutions, were severally adopted.
The Committee to whom was referred the applications and
recommendations of several learned gentlemen for Professorships
in the University, report, that they have had the subject under consideration. High testimonials of character and qualifications are
produced by the several applicants; but your Committee regret that
the present situation of the University forbids them from recommending at this time a selection. The corner-stone of the University is not yet laid, and until a prospect can be reasonably entertained of the commencement and completion of that building on the
site selected, your Committee deem a crhoice of Professors premature.
Professor Henry comes highly recommended for the Chair of
Natural Philosophy; and from his distinguished reputation, it would
be greatly advantageous to the future reputation of the Institution,
Joseph Henry (1799-1878), First Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution
from  I84.6 to the time of his death.




38


1iMARCH MtWEETIANG, 1838


if his services could be secured, to commence at a distant day. Of
this, however, it is for the Board to judge.
And Dr. Gray and Dr. Dunkin, the first as a Botanist and the
latter in the branch of Mental Philosophy have adduced letters of
recommendation from the most distinguished literary and collegiate gentlemen of our country.
Dr. Smith, now in this city, and a distinguished lecturer on
Phrenology, has also tendered his application for the Professorship
of Mental Philosophy.
It is to be regretted, therefore, that the situation of the University will not warrant an election, as your Committee feel no
hesitation in saying that most of the Chairs contemplated for the
commencement of tuitions could be well filled from among the
highly reputable gentlemen whose claims are before the Board.
Believing, however, that it is most advisable to postpone action
until another sitting of the Board, your Committee recommend the
adoption of the following resolutions.
Rcsolved, That the Secretary be and he 'is hereby directed to
answer the several applications, acknowledging their receipt, stating
that the unprepared state of the University to commence immediate
operations has induced the Board of Regents to postpone the selection of Professors for the different Chairs, and that the several
applications will receive the respectful attention of the Board at a
future meeting.
hResolved, That the applications be laid on the table and the
Committee be discharged from their further consideration.
Mr. Wilkins from the Committee to which was referred
the subject of the existence of the corporation known by
the name of the Trustees of the University of Michigan,
its powers and franchise, and what measures, if any, are
necessary to be adopted by the Regents of the University,
made a report accompanied by sundry resolutions. On motion the following among the resolutions reported was
adopted, viz.:
Resolved, That the, Attorney-General be and he is hereby requested to have prepared a Quit-Claim deed of the rights, titles, and
interest of the said corporation in and to the lands in Michigan, to
the Board of Regents.
On further motion, it was ordered that said report with the
remaining resolutions be laid on the table.
Mr. Schoolcraft submitted     the  following  resolution,
which was adopted.
Resolved, That the President of the Board be authorized to
ascertain whether a loan of State Bonds to the amount of One
Hundred and fifty thousand dollars cannot be obtained for the University during tlhe term of twenty years, on 'interest payable annually to the Treasurer of the State to be secured: and paid out of
any moneys belonging to the University and which may be applicalle to such purposes.




MARCH MEETING, 1838


39


MBr. Schoolcraft submitted    the  following  resolution,
wrhich was adopted.
Resolved, That a standing committee of three be appointed on
the organization and Government of the University, who shall be
charged with reporting to this Board as early as practicable the
best plan for putting the University!into operation at the earliest
practicable period, indicating Ithe mode of government best calculated to secure the interests of sound learning, science, and literature wit:hin the State, and the official duties to be executed by the
Chancellor.
MNessrs. Schoolcraft, Wilkins, and Adam were appointed
the Committee contemplated by the foregoing resolution.
Mr. Schoolcraft submitted     the following   resolution,
which was adopted.
Resolved, That a Committee on building be appointed, to con-.sist of three members, rwho shall be charged with the following.duties.
Ist. To fix upon and recommend to this Board a plan for the
University buildings.
2nd. To prepare accurate estimates of the stone, lime, brick,
-timber, iron, and other materials required, w~ith their probable cost,
delivered on the ground, and the periods at which the delivery is required to be made.
3rd. To contract under the direction of the Board for such
materials, on printed proposals, designating the articles, dates of.delivery, and sureties required, and stipulating to make the respective payments at such period's as the University funds may justify.
4th. The propriety of employing a suitable architect to superintend, under their directions, the erection of the buildings, and the
arrangement of the grounds.
Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chief Justice Fletcher,
and Chancellor Farnsworth were appointed the Committee
contemplated by said resolution.
NMr. Adam    submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted.
Resolved, That the Committee on the Library and Philosophical Apparatus take into consideration the propriety of appointing an.agent or agents to visit the Eastern Cities, or some of tlhe principal book markets of Europe, or both, for the purchase of a suitable
selection of books and other publications for the foundation of a
University Library, and also of Philosophical and Chemical Apparatus.
MAr. Adam    submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted.
Resolved, That the bonds required to be given by the Treasurer:of the Branches in the cities of Detroit and Monroe and the vil



40       SECOND Ml.ARCH MIEETING, 1838


lage of Kalamazoo, shall each be in the sum of three thousand dollars.
Chancellor Farnsworth submitted the following resolution, which was adopted.
Resolved, That three several warrants be issued, each in the
sum of One Thousand Dollars in favor of Lieutenant-Governor
Mundy, Chief Justice Fletcher, and Dr. Denton, who are authorized
to expend that amount, or so much thereof as may be necessary, in
fencing and improving the University Grounds; said warrants to
bear an interest of 6 per cent from the time of their negotiation.
Chancellor Farnsworth offered the following resolution,
which was adopted.
Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to procure a seal
for this corporation.
On motion of Mr. Adam,
Resolved, That the Principals of the several Branches Te directed to forward their reports, required:to be made to the Board
of Regents, by the 5th Section of the first Chapter of the Laws for
the Branches, to the Chairman of the Committee on Branches at
Detroit.
And then the Board adjourned to the ioth March.
SECOND) MARCH MEETING, 1838.
Detroit, March ioth, 1838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Chief Justice Fletcher, Chancellor Farnsworth, and Messrs.
Pitcher, Schoolcraft, Adam, and Denton.
Mr. Jonathan Kearsley having been appointed a Regent
in the place of Mr. Porter, resigned, appeared this day and
took his seat as a member of the Board.
The President appointed Mr. Kearsley a member of the
Committee on Branches.
Robert Stewart, Esq., was appointed a member of the
Board of Visitors of the Detroit Branch in the place of Mr.
Kearsley.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth,
Resolved, That J. D. Pierce, Esq., be authoriied to procure for
the Library of the University a copy of the An4liquitates Americanae
by Professor Rafn.




THIRD MARCH MIEE TING, 1838


4r


(n motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized' to
purchase copies of such books as they may deem necessary for the
purpose of comparing them with such as have been heretofore ordered to be used as text-books in the Branches of the University;
also, copies of such; books as have been adopted.
On motion of Mr. Adam,
Resolved, That a Committee of three be appointed to be called
a Committee on Agricultural Branches whose duty it shall be to enquire into and report in relation to a proper site or sites for one or
more Agricultural Branches, and to submit a plan for the organization and government and Course of Instruction for the same.
Messrs. Adam, Crary, and Denton were appointed the
Committee contemplated by the foregoing resolution.
On motion of Mr. Schoolcraft,
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Board be directed to write
to Professor Stowe, of Cincinnati, requesting for the use of this
Board an authentic copy of his report on the Mode of Teaching
and State of Common School Education in Europe, made by him
to the General Assembly of the State, of Ohio.
And then the Board adjourned to the 24th March.
THIRD MARCH MEETING, 1838.
March 24th, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr.
Pitcher, and Messrs. Kearsley, Adam, Schoolcraft, and Wilkins.
Dr. Pitcher from the Committee on Branches, to which
was referred the letter of Charles Noble respecting the establishment of a Female Department to the Monroe Branch,
made- a report.
Dr. Pitcher presented a report from Mr. Williams, Principal of the 'Oakland Branch: also, a report of Mr. Center,
Principal of the Monroe Branch, which were severally referred to the Committee on Branches.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, the report made
by the Committee on Branches upon the application of
Charles Noble was recommitted to said Committee with instructions to report a resolution organizing a Female De



42


THIRD MARCH MEETING, 1838


-artment to the Monroe Branch, and with further instruc-.tions to report upon the expediency of amending the laws
prescribing the test of admission.
Mr. Schoolcraft presented the following report, which
was accepted and laid on the table:
The Committee on the Organization and Government of the
University, to whom was referred the Regents' resolution of the
3rd!instant, have had the same under consideration and beg leave
to report: That it would in their view best promote the interests,of the Institution, and of sound learning, Science, and Literature, to
organize each general Department of Instruction as a separate College or Collegiate Department, to be under the literary Government
of its own Presiding Officer, so far as the several branches taught
therein are concerned, subject, however, to the Laws prescribed by
the Regents. Such a sub-division of local government and' responsibility of action is not only deemed wise 'in principle, but the course
is rendered imperative by the ninth section of the Organic Act,
which declares that "the immediate government of the several Departments shall be intrusted to their respective Faculties."
The eighth section prescribes the general Collegiate divisions.and the separate Professorships wlhich may be appointed under each,
by the Regents, and circumscribes their power within the recited
number. It is clear, from a view of this Section, that the Act contemplates a College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and a College of Surgeons and Physicians, as the two primary Institutions.
Subordinate in rank, but at the same time perfectly distinct, are,.a Department of Law, a Department of Natural History and Chemistry, and a Department of the Fine Arts, Civil Engineering, and
Agriculture. Each of these requires, in our opinion, for its healthy
action, a Presiding Officer or Principal to whom shall be committed
its local government and management; and to this end, each needs
to have appropriate buildings, lecture rooms, books, and apparatus.
'The Committee do not wish to trench on the Professorships Committee by expressing an opinion on the number of Professors to be
appointed, or the grouping of their duties; but they deem it essential that whatever the number be, their respective duties should be
independently performed. This is believed to be the principle of
excellence 'in literary labours. lit appeals at once to the highest
motives, to intellectual exertion, and secures to its fullest extent,
individual accountability.
Such a distribution of powers would leave the Chancellor to
perform the duties of a civil and moral governor of the whole Institution. He would preside over the,deliberations of the Faculty
and be responsible to the Regents for the due administration of the
prescribed laws, and for the internal polity and general prosperity
of the University. To these duties it is deemed proper to add the
delivery of occasional lectures, at his own pleasure as to time and
topic. Every Professor having an appointment from the Regents
should be a member of the Faculty Board. The rules by which
this Board is to be governed are properly within the province of
the Committee for preparing a Code of Laws.
It is believed that the buildings for the Medical and Surgical
College could be most beneficially located at Detroit; but the graduation exercises would take place, and the degrees be conferred, at




APRIL MEIETINIG, 1838


43


the Mother Institution. The reasons for this recommendation are
founded wholly on the advantages for Anatomical and Clinical lectures which are possessed by this place and wlhich, from its commercial growth and importance, it must continue to enjoy over any
other in the State. Under these general views, the Committee re-.spectfully submit the following resolutions:
Ist. Resolved, That the Professor of Moral Philosophy shall
be ex offcio, President of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts.
2nd. Resolved, That the Professor of the Theory and Practice
of Medicine shall be ex officio, President of the College of Surgeons
and Physicians.
3rd. Resolved, That the Professor of Common Law shall be
the Principal of the Law Department.
4th. Resolved, That the Professor of Geology and Mineralogy
shall be the Principal of the Department of Natural History and
Chemistry.
5th.- Resolved, That the Professor of Civil Engineering shall
be the Principal of the Department of the Fine Arts, Civil Engineering, and Architecture.
6th. Resolved, That the Chancellor shall execute the duties of
a civil and moral Governor of the University; that he shall preside
over the Faculty, and, with its aid, be responsible for the administration of the Laws and Regulations; and for the superintendence
of its internal polity and. general welfare; and that he shall, furthermore, be a lecturer ad libitunm.
7th. Resolved, That the buildings required for the College of,Surgeons and Physicians shall be erected at the City of Detroit.
Adopted in Committee, March I7th, I838.
(Signed) HENRY R. SCHOOLCRAF'r, Chr.
On motion, the Act relative to the State Geological Survey, and repealing an Act entitled, "An Act to provide for
a Geological Survey of the State of Michigan," was referred
to a select Committee, consisting of Messrs. Kearsley and
Wilkins.
On motion of Mr. Schoolcraft,
Resolved, That the State Geologist be requested to make an
examination in the vicinity of Ann Arbor to ascertain whether
stone of a suitable quality can be obtained for the University buildings.
And then the Board adjourned to the 7th day of April
next.
APRIL    MEETING, I838.
April 7th, 1838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Chief Justice Fletcher, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Kearsley and
Adam.




44


APRIL MEETING, 1838


Dr. Pitcher presented certain testimonials in behalf of
the Rev. C. B. Thummel, who applies for the Professorship
of Modern Languages in the University, which was referred
to the Committee on Branches.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from        E. A.
Brush, Esq., which was laid on the table.
Mr. Kearsley from   the select Committee to which was
referred "An Act relative to the State Geological Survey,
etc., approved March 22nd, 1838, made the following report which, with the resolution accompanying the same,
was laid on the table:
REPORT:
By the eighth Section of said Act it is provided that specimens
shall be collected and preserved in the following manner, to wit:
first, the State slhall be supplied with single and good specimens.
Second, if more similar specimens than one can be found, sixteen
more, if possible, shall be procured, to be distributed by the Regents
amongst the University and its Branches. By the ninth section it
is provided that the Regents shall pay $4,000 for these anticipated
specimens in twelve equal quarter-yearly installments between the
first day of March, 1838, and first day of March, I84I, and that in
order to secure the benefits of said Act to the University and
Branches, the Regents shall within one month from its passage file
in the office of the Secretary of State their assent to the provisions
thereof. Your Committee cannot forbear the expression of surprise
at the foregoing provisions of the Act which requires the appropriation of the funds of the University for the purpose contemplated.
Your Committee are not insensible to the great advantage and, 'indeed, absolute necessity to the cause of Science that the University
and Branches should be furnished with the best specimens in Geology, etc., and your Committee very highly appreciate the value of
the Law authorizing the exploring of the State with the view to
developing its mineral and other resources. Yet while the object
of the law is unquestionably highly beneficial and commendatory,
your Committee are of the opinion that the Regents should not
have been called upon to appropriate any part of the funds of the
University for carrying it into effect. It is believed that the University and its Branches, exl uccessitate rei, can be tihe only safe
and appropriate depository of such specimens and therefore that
the Law should have made it the duty of the Regents to provide for
the preservation and safe keeping of all such specimens. This appropriate duty the Regents would most carefully and to the utmost
of their ability cheerfully undertake and perform. Your Committee
are, however, of the opinion that the interests of the Institutions
committed to their care should oblige them to decline giving their
assent to this Law, as provided by the ninth Section, for the following considerations. The Constitution most wisely provides that
the principal of the University Fund shall remain sacred and inviolate, no part of which can be expended for any purpose whatever. The interest accruing upon the amount for which lands have
been sold, if promptly paid, will be about $Io,ooo per annum. This




APRIL MEETING, 1838


45


entire sum would be required to meet the interest upon the loan
now asked from the State, with a view to an immediate commencement of the buildings for the University, and, therefore, no part
of it should be diverted from this object of primary importance.
The Regents from want of means have thought it prudent to organize but four Branches, although eight are considered necessary
at this moment. To carry out the provisions of law, relative to the
four Branches now organized, it may and probably will be immediately necessary to make an additional annual appropriation of
$I,000 to each to sustain a Female Department. To meet this expenditure, the Regents must depend upon the interest to accrue from
future sales of lands. Should the loan be obtained, then the interest now accruing will be necessary to meet that of the loan, and
should the loan be withheld, it will be the more necessary that the
Regents apply their wlhole means to carry out the spirit and intentions of the Constitution and Laws relative to the University. It is
only necessary to turn the attention of the Regents to the fact that
these specimens in Geology, etc., are now being collected and that
many of them,will be ready for delivery within six months, and
that all must be collected, at the longest, within three years. Buildings, fixtures, etc., must be erected for their safe keeping. Where
are those buildings? by whom to be constructed? Wihere are the
funds, or from what source to be appropriated!? It is not the duty
of the Regents 'to provide all these. In this view of the subject
thus, can the Regents consent to this proposition? It might be
added that the appropriation would require an amount equal to that
necessary for maintaining a Branch; and would the Regents be
justified in assenting to the provisions of this Law at the sacrifice
of this more direct and paramount duty? The impropriety also as
well as impolicy of pledging appropriations beyond the certain receipts and thus, under any contingency, requiring forced sales even
under disadvantageous circumstances, needs only to be mentioned
to induce their cautious avoidance. It can be clearly shown tnat
the pledges already given by the Regents will be all they can redeem; and, therefore, that the state of their finances forbids, upon
principles of justice and in accordance with the expectations of the
public, their assent to the provisions of the act of the 22nd March,
I838. Your Committee therefore respectfully submit the following
resolution:
Resolved, That the Regents feel it their duty to withhold
their assent to the appropriation contemplated by the Act of the 22d
March, I838. Yet they hereby pledge themselves for the erection of
such buildings as may be necessary and otherwise to-provide for
the preservation of such specimens as may be collected under said
Act and at any time intrusted to their care.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, to which
was referred a communication from the Rev. M\r. Centre,
made the following report, which was adopted:
The Committee on Branches, who have had under consideration
the suggestion of Mr. Centre respecting the propriety of reducing
the qualifications of candidates for entrance into the University
Branches, fully concur with Mr. Centre that the distinction between
the common school and the Branches is unnecessarily great, but




46


APRIL MlEETIAG, 1838


also are of the opinion that this evil should rather be remedied
by striving to elevate the character of the district school than by
adoption of the plan proposed in the report of the Principal of the
Branch at Monroe.
The propriety of appointing a Tutor in that Branch has also
been discussed by'the Committee, who have formed the opinion that
it will not be expedient to make such an appointment until the
citizens of Monroe shall have furnished room for the accommodation of all the qualified applicants. The Committee would, however,
suggest that authority be given to the Committee on Branches to
make such an appointment whenever the objection above alluded
to shall have been removed.
Dr. Pitcher, from   the same committee, made the following report, with the accompanying resolutions, which
were severally adopted:
The Committee to which was recommitted the communication
from Mr. Noble on the subject of the Monroe Female Seminary
and the report of the Committee on Branches in relation thereto,
respectfully report:
That their views remain unchanged as regards the obligations
of this Board to organize the Female Department of each Branch
whenever the requisite buildings shall be furnished for that purpose,
but that they deem it inexpedient at this time to recommend the
establishment of a School of Female Instruction to be connected
with the Monroe Branch,-notwithstanding the overtures made by
the patrons of the Female Seminary at that place, because the
Committee are of the opinion that the precedent would not be a
safe one to establish, although it would not, so far as the Branch
alone at Monroe is concerned, very essentially augment the amount
to be drawn from the resources of the Regents of the University.
The Committee, therefore, ask leave to submit the following resolutions:
Resolved, Tlhat it is the opinion of this Board, that in the
present state of the finances of the University, it will be prejudicial
to the interests of the Institution to organize the Departments of
Female Instruction of either of the Branches which are to go into
operation this season, before the conditions have been Irterally
complied' with on which the location of each Branch was made to
depend.
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to,
furnish Mr. Noble a copy of the foregoing resolution.
The Act to authorize the loan of a certain sum of money
to the University of Michigan, was referred to a Select
Committee consisting of Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Mr. Kearsley.
On motion of Mr. Kearsley, the President is authorized
to signify the assent of the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan to the provisions of the said Act, file
i certificate thereof in the Office of the Treasurer, and




SECOND APRIL MlEETING, 1838


47"


execute to said Treasurer and his successors the necessarl
bond, etc., agreeably to the Second Section of the Act aforesaid,.
It was further Resolved, That the President be authorized to
take charge of the specimens in Natural History, in the possession
of Dr. Houghton, belonging to the University and provide a place
for their safe keeping and preservation.
Resolved, That a Branch of the University be located at Niles
and the Committee on Branches be instructed to put in operation a
Branch of the University at Niles as soon as, in their opinion, the
funds of the University will permit.
The Board then took up the report of the Committee on
the Organization of the University and adopted the first,
second, third, fourth, fifth, and  sixth  resolutions.   (See
pages 42 and 43.)
It was further Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be
authorized in their discretion, to discontinue any Branch of the
University now or hereafter to be established, and to transfer the
Principal of any Branch so discontinued to any other Branch established or to be established by the Board.
Adjourned to Monday the I6th of April next.
SECOND      APRIL MEETING, 1838.
Monday, April i6th, 1838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present:   Governor    Mason, Chancellor Farnsworth,.
Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Adam, Kearsley, and Schoolcraft.
Chancellor Farnsworth, from     the Committee to which
was referred the Act to authorize a loan of a certain sum
of money to the University of Michigan, made a report
accompanied by certain resolutions, which were severally
adopted:
Tlhe Committee to whom was referred the Act in relation to
a loan for the University report that they have conferred with the
Secretary of the Board in regard to 'the form of the bond and the
certificates of the stock, which forms are prepared by him and will
be submitted to the Board for their approval. The committee are
of opinion that the University will require the following sums at
the periods severally mentioned. Fifteen thousand dollars for the
year 1838, Thirty-five thousand dollars for I839 and Fifty thousand
dollars for I840. If the whole loan can be contracted on terms as
favourable as any other, payable at those periods and the stock not
to be issued until payments are required, the Committee would




48    SECOND APRIL MEETING, 1838


recommend that course. If not the Committee would recommend
that the agent whom the Board shall appoint shall have discretionary power to negotiate the whole loan, and it will then be incumbent upon the Board to place the proceeds in safe institutions which
will pay the interest, save the Board from  loss, and give ample
security for the payment of the principal at the periods when the
same may be required. Your Committee would further suggest the
propriety of first offering the loan here as, in the opinion of your
Committee, this will be a favorite stock. It is here well known that
the property pledged in addition to the faith of the State for its
redemption is worth nearly or quite a million of dollars. Its amount
is not so great as to place the entire loan beyond the reach of our
own institutions or capitalists. The periods at which the money
will be required will be no additional inducement. Should not offers
be made here of a satisfactory character, it can be ascertained
through the President of;the Board, or some other agent in the
eastern cities, what can be obtained for the stock and a choice had
between the markets at home and abroad. This fund is placed under
the care and control of this Board, and, like other trustees, it will
be held responsible for its safe and prudent administration. Said
loan your Committee are of opinion should be reimbursable after
twenty years in ten equal installments. Your Committee recommend
the adoption of the accompanying resolutions.
Resolved, That Jonathan Kearsley be and he is hereby appointed
the agent of this Board with full power and authority to negotiate
the said certificates of stock of One hundred thousand dollars,
authorized by the act of the Legislature of this State, entitled
"An Act to authorize a loan of a certain sum of money to the
University of Michigan,' approved. April 6th, 1838.
Resolved, Tlhat said Jonathan Kearsley, agent as aforesaid,
before said stock is delivered to him shall enter into a bond to the
Regents of the University of Michigan and their successors, in the
sum of One hundred and fifty thousand dollars, with two sureties
to be approved by the Auditing Committee of this Board with condition for the faithful performance of said trust, and to account to
this Board for the proceeds of said negotiation.
Resolved, That the certificates of the stock authorized to be
issued by the act of the Legislature of Michigan, approved April
f6th, I838, entitled "An Act to authorize a loan of a certain sum of
money to the University of Michigan,' be transferred, assigned and
delivered to said Jonathan Kearsley (the security as aforesaid' being
first given) and that said transfer and assignment be executed by
the President of this Board, countersigned by the Secretary under
the seal of this corporation, and said President and Secretary are
hereby authorized and empowered to execute assignment and transfer according to the provisions of the foregoing resolution.
Resolved, That until a permanent Seal is provided, a paper
Seal impressed with a common stamp be adopted and used as the
Seal of this corporation.
Resolved, That the said agent slhall not sell the said stock here
or elsewhere in the United States unless upon such terma and
conditions as shall insure that it shall not be re-offered for sale
in the United States.
Adjourned to the 15th May next.




MAY MEETING, 1838


49


MAY MEETING, 1838.
Detroit, May I5th, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor Mlundy, Chancellor Farnsworth, Mr. Justice Morrell, Drs. Pitcher and Denton, and
2Messrs. Wilkins and Kearsley.
The Governor being absent Lieutenant-Governor Mundy
took the chair.
Dr. Pitcher presented a letter from Mr. George Wilson
accompanied by an Arithmetic and Reader, which were
referred to the Committee on Branches.
Communications from Mr. Bacon and others, asking to
be appointed to situations as teachers in the Branches, were
presented and referred to the Committee on Branches.
Dr. Pitcher presented Reports from Mr. Williams, Principal of the Oakland Branch, and from Mr. Eastman, Principal of the Kalamazoo Branch, the former of which was
laid on the table and the latter referred to the Committee
on Branches.
On motion the form of the Report made by Mr. Williams was adopted by the Board as the proper form of like
reports to be hereafter'madde by the Principals of the several Branches,-which form is as follows:


STUDENTS            INSTRUCTORS      REMARKS
ClassiTotal   lai Teachers        Time 
cal          Num-          By
Num- Depart-    epart-  um- Devoted  ach
ber     ts   ment        By All 
_  ments,
On motion, Lieutenant-Governor iMundy, Chief Justice
Fletcher, and Dr. Ienton were appointed a Committee to
contract for conveying water to the University Grounds.
And then the Board adjourned to the 26th of June
next.




50


JULY MEETING, I838


Detroit, June 26th, 1838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment; but no quorumt,
appearing, the Board adjourned to meet on the I7th day of
July next.
JULY MEETING, 1838.
Detroit, July I7th, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present:  Governor Mason, Chief Justice Fletcher.
Chancellor Farnsworth, Drs. Pitcher and Denton, and
Messrs. Kearsley and Adam.
Dr. Pitcher presented several communications recommending Messrs. Balch and Harvie for the situation of
Principals in Branches to be established. Referred to the
Commiittee on Branches.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from Mr. Holstein applying for the Professorship of Modern Languages
in the University, which was laid on the table.. Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from James I-T.
Fargo respecting the establishment of a Branch at Manchester, Aashtenaw County. Referred to the Committ-e
on Branches.
Dr. Pitcher presented an application in behalf of the
Principal of the Kalamazoo Branch requesting permission
to close the Summer Term on the 4th instead of the 15th
of August, which was referred to the Committee ol
Branches with power to grant the application should they
deem it proper.
The Secretary laid before the Board a letter from C. I.
Walker, Esq.,1 respecting a Branch at Grand Rapids, which
was referred to the Committee on Branches.
Governor M[ason presented a communication from Dr.
Asa Gray respecting the Professorship of Botany in the
lUniversity, etc., whereupon, on motion of Mr. Kearslevy
it was
Resolved, That Dr. Asa Gray be and he is hereby appointed
Professor of Botany and Zoology in the University of Michigan,
and that the committee on Professorships be instructed to correspond with Dr. Gray in detail relative to Ihis appointment.
1 Later, one of the original Faculty of the Law School.




JULY MIEETING, I838


5I


M/r. Kearsley, the agent to negotiate the loan of $Ioo,000,
made the following report, which was laid on the table:
The agent appointed by a resolution of the Board of Regents,
dated April i6th, 1838, for negotiating the loan of $Ioo,ooo under
the Act of the Legislature of Michigan entitled, "An Act to loan
a certain sum of money to the University of Michigan," reports
that he has attended to that duty by negotiating said loan with the
Bank of Michigan, in the City of Detroit, and has transferred the
bonds of the State for $Ioo,ooo to said Bank, subject to the following stipulations. The Bank has covenanted to pay on demand,
$6,ooo as a premium upon said stock, to pay $I5,000 of the principal
on thie fifteenth day of June, 1839, or so much thereof before that
time as shall be appropriated and expended by the Board of Regents,
the further sum of $35,000 on the fifteenth day of June, 1840, with
the like covenant to meet appropriations of the Board prior to that
time and after the fifteenth day of June, I839, and tlhe last installment of $50,000 to be paid. on the fifteenth day of June, I84I, with
the same proviso as!in the preceding, to meet appropriations. The
Bank covenant further to keep an interest account with the Board
of Regents and to pay semi-annually, seven per cent per annum
interest upon all unpaid balance. The obligation, given by the
Bank of Michigan to the Board of Regents and approved by the
Auditing Committee, 'is herewith submitted and will more fully
explain the negotiation.
It may be proper to add that previous to tihe appointment of
your agent, their Secretary, by direction of the Board, had, made
application to the several banks in the city of Detroit for proposals
of terms upon which they would take this loan and that the Banks
had severally declined to submit propositions to the Board. It was
therefore inferred by the Board. that the loan could not be effected
in this State, and a verbal understanding was had between Governor
-Mason and your agent that the Governor would make the necessary
enquiries as to the terms upon which the loan could be effected
in New York, Philadelphia, and Washington, and communicate the
result to your agent before the tenth day of May then next ensuing.
Your agent therefore made no attempt to dispose of this stock
until that period has elapsed, except *to receive such other offers
as might be presented. Having no communication from the Governor and therefore taking it for granted that this stock could not be
advantageously sold in our Atlantic Cities, your agent about the
20th to the 25th of May last entered into the before mentioned
agreement with the Bank of Michigan, the only corporation or
individual who had submitted any proposition. In conclusion, personal considerations induce your agent to remark that the terms
upon which this loan has been negotiated are believed to be more
advantageous than other proposals made subsequently, for it is
probably known to members of this Board that proposals were
made for the purchase of this stock sometime after the negotiation
with the Bank of Michigan had been consummated. And it may
therefore be proper to state that on the i5th June last, two or three
offers were communicated to your agent at Io per cent premium,
and again on the 22nd of the same month a further proposition
offering I2 /2 per cent premium. But let it be observed that in
all these proposals no intimation was made of an interest account,,.




52


SECOND JULY 1MEETING, 1838


and inquiry as to one of them slhows that no allowance of interest
upon unpaid installments was intended. The Bank of Michigan
at an interview with its Officers originally upon this subject had
offered twelve per cent premium, which was declined. An arinmetical calculation satisfied your agent that the terms upon which
the loan has been negotiated would equal 22-450/I0OO per cent premium without interest account, and this, too, exclusive of interest
upon the $6,ooo premium obtained and which is now drawing interest.
Most respectfully,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.               J. KrARSLrY, Agent.
July IIth, 1838.
The propriety of altering the LUniversity Grouncts at
Ann Arbor was referred to a Committee consisting of Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chief Justice Fletcher, and Dr.
Denton.
IMr. Kearsley laid on the table the following resolutions:
Resolved, That the tuition fees after the present term  be
$25 per azutnut in the City of Detroit and Monroe, and $I5 per
an,11num at all other Branches.
Resolved, That the Laws for the Government of Branches
contemplated, in the opinion of the Regents, a series of uninterrupted studies and recitations during the week; and, therefore,
that any suspension of the usual and regular recitations on Wednesday afternoon is clearly in violation of said rules.
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
organize such Classical Schools, subject to the same confirmation
as is required for the establishment of Branches, as they may deem
expedient from time to time for the purpose of instruction in the
Latin and Greek Languages exclusively, and that the said Committee
have authority to employ the Tutors necessary to that object.
Resolved, That the Auditing Committee be and hereby are
authorized and required to audit and allow the account of any
member of the Board of Regents for his travelling expenses, with
one dollar and fifty cents per day as an equivalent for his necessary
contingencies, for every day spent in going to, attending upon, and
returning from any meeting of said Board, and the same allowance to any member of a Committee who may be necessarily called
from the place of his residence in the discharge of his duties on
said Committee.
Adjourned to i8th instant.
SECOND JULY MEETING, 1838.
Detroit, July i8th, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Preseint: Governor Mason, Chief Justice Fletcher, Chancellor Farnsworth, Drs. Denton and Pitcher, and Messrs.
A dam and Kearsley.




SElCOND JULY M17 EETING, 1838


53


The Board took np the report of Mr. Kearsley, the
ag'ent for negotiating the loan for the University, and the
same was adopted.
The followi1ng resolution was adopted:
Resolved. That Chief Justice Fletcher and Dr. Denton be
appointed a Committee and are instructed to make an exchange of
land with the Trustees of the Ann Arbor Land Company as may
he necessary to make the site for the University a right-angled
parallelogram. andi that thev be further authorized and directed to
execute in behalf of the Board of Regents a deed of Release of
such portions of the northern part of the present site as they may
deem expedient unon receiving a full. perfect. and unincumbered
conveyance and' title to the Regents of the University of an equal
quantity of land adjoining the Dresent site on the south and said
release by said Committee shall be a full and entire release of
all the estate, claim, and interest of the Repents of the University
or of the State of Michigan of, in, and' to the part of said site so
released.
On further motion,
Resolved, That said committee be directed to cause a sireet
one hundred feet in width to be opened on the line on each side
of the site of the University and that said Committee be authorized
in conjunction with the owners of the adjoining lands to make
and record a plat of such street.
On motion of Chief Justice Fletcher,
Resolved, That Jonathan Kearsley, the agent of this Board to
negotiate a loan of One hundred thousand dollars, be and he is
hereby directed to pay over to and deposit with the Treasurer of
the Board the amount of Six thousand dollars received of the
Bank of Michigan as a premium on said loan.
On motion of Mr. Adam,
Resolved, That a Branch of the University be and the same is
hereby located at the village of Tecumsedh, in the County of Lenawee, and that the Committee on Branches be instructed to put the
same in operation at the ensuing fall term, provided suitable buildings are furnished in said village for the use of the Branch, in
accordance with the resolution of the Board.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the followingo resolution, which
was adopted.
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
settle the account of Whitman and Langley for extra services
done on the Branch building of the University at Detroit, and pay
them out of the funds of the University, which sum shall be reimbursed out of the tuition fees of the said Branch whenever the
amount necessary shall have accrued.




54


SECOND JULY MlEETING, 1838


()On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the University buildings shall be constructed
of brick and faced with stone.
On motion of Dr. Denton,
Resolved, That the Committee on Grounds be authorized to
examine the springs in the vicinity of the site for the University
with reference to the quality of water and make such experiments
as they may deem necessary; and take the requisite steps to procure
titles if any other springs should be deemed preferable to those
already conveyed.
The following persons were appointed Visitors of the
Tecumseh Branch of the University: Joseph W. Brown,
Stillman Blanchard, M\r. Jermain, Dr. Patterson, Samuel
Satterthwaite. A. C. Boughton was appointed Treasurer of
said Branch.
J. T. Skinner was appointed Treasurer of the Monroe
Branch of the LUniversity, and Henry Smith a Visitor of
said Branch.
Mr. Kearsley called up the following resolution, which
was adopted.
Resolved, That the Laws for the Government of the University
Branches contemplate, in the opinion of the Regents, a series of
uninterrupted studies and recitations during the week, and therefore, that any suspension of the usual and regular recitations on
Wednesday afternoon is clearly in violation of said rules.
The resolution respecting subordinate Branches offered
yesterday by Mr. Kearsley was then considered, and the
following was adopted as a substitute therefor.
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
establish branches for instruction in1 the Greek and Latin Languages
as they may deem expedient.
On motion the resolution offered yesterday respecting
an increase in the tuition fees was taken up and adopted.
On motion of Mr. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
organize a Branch of the University in the County of Washtenaw.
On motion of M/r. Wilkins,
Resolved, That the Committee on Grounds and Buildings be
and they are hereby directed to publish notice of the reception of
sealed proposals for furnishing lumber and other materials forthwith.
And then the Board adjourned to meet on the 2nd
Tuesday of August at Detroit.




SEPTEMsBER MEETING, 1838


55


AUGUST MEETING, 1838.
Second Tuesday, August, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment; but no, quorum
appearing, the Board adjourned to meet on the Saturday
following.
August, 1838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment; but no quorum
appearing, the Board adjourned to meet on the 2Ist of
August.
August 21st, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment; but no quorum
appearing, the Board adjourned to the i6th September next.
SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1838.
September i6th, 1838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Chief Justice Fletcher, Hon.
L. Lyon, Mlessrs. AWilkins and Morrell, and Drs. Pitcher
and Denton.
On motion of Justice Morell, the plan offered by Alexander J. Davis, Architect of New York City, was adopted
by yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. President, Pitcher, Lyon, Denton, Wilkins, Fletcher and Morell.
Nays: none.
On motion of Dr. Denton,
Resolved, That the Main Building and eight sections of the
North Wing, as specified in the plan of Mr. Davis, be immediately,commenced.
Doctor Pitcher moved That this Board do now proceed to
nominate a builder for the University of Michigan, which motion
was carried.
The following individuals were thereupon nominted: by Judge
Wilkins, Robert T. Elliott; by Dr. Pitcher, Charles Lum; by Dr.
Denton, William Olmstead; by Mr. Lyon, Isaac Thompson. Said
nominations were, on motion of Judge Wilkins, laid on tihe table
until the next meeting.
On motion of Mr. Lyon,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to
proceed to the organization of a Branch of the University at Grand
Rapids, Kent County.




56


5SEPTEMlBER M4EETING, I838


On the motion of Dr. Pitcher, the Board adjourned to
meet in the Senate Chamber at the Capitol, the I7th instant,
at ii o'clock A. M.
September 17th, I838.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present:   Governor MAason, Chief Justice      Fletcher,
Messrs. Wilkins, Lyon, Crary, Morell, Norvell, and Drs.
Pitcher and Denton.
On motion of Judge Wilkins,
Resolved, That the plan of building adopted by the Regents
be presented to the Governor and Superintendent of Public Instruction for their approval, in accordance with certain provisions of
the Revised Statutes.
The motion was carried: by Ayes and Nays as follows:
Ayes: Messrs. Lyon, Wilkins, Morell, Fletcher, Pitcher, Denton,
and the President.
Nays: Messrs. Norvell and Crary.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the estimate and lists of chemical apparatus.
furnished by Dr. Asa Gray, of New York, be noow taken up for
consideration.
On motion of Mr. Norvell,
Resolved, That Dr. Asa Gray, Professor of Botany in the
University of Michigan, in his contemplated tour in Europe be.
requested to purchase a library for the University of Michigan, that
the sum of Five thousand dollars be appropriated and placed in his
hands to carry that object into effect, he giving sufficient bonds
and security for the faithful application of the money, and that
fifteen Ihundred dollars be advanced to Doctor Gray for defraying
the expenses which he may incur in the execution of the commission
hereby confided to him.
Resolved, That the Library contemplated in the preceding resolution be composed of Standard English Works in history, biog 
raphy, voyages and travels, poetry, statistics, science, and one copy
of the most approved British Annual Register from its commencement to the time when the purchase shall be made, together with
such Scientific Works enumerated in the catalogue furnished byv
him as he may deem most desirable.
Resolved, That Dir. Gray be requested to embody his observations of a scientific, literary, and philosophical character while in:
Europe, in the form of a report, to be laid before the Board of
Regents on his return home.
The account of A. J. Davis, Architect of the University,
for Six hundred dollars was presented and allowed, and
warrant ordered to be issued to him for that amount.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1838


57


'Tle following vacancies, etc., in the Boards of Visitors
of the several Branches named, were filled as follows, viz.:
William Draper
Francis Darrow    To fill vacancies, Pontiac Branch.
Schuyler Hodges
John R. Finley 
Erasmus Winslow
Henry B. Hoffman   Visitors, Niles Branch.
Nathl. Bacon &
Jacob Beeson
George Goodman, Treasurer of the Branch at Niles.
Charles I. Walker
John Almy
E. B. Bostwick     Visitors of the Grand Rapids Branch.
N. H. Finney
Sidney Smith
Wm. A. Richmond, Treasurer Grand Rapids Branch.
Reports from   the Detroit and Monroe Branches were
read and ordered to lie on the table.
On motion the Secretary was directed to furnish a list
of the Branches of the University already established, to
the Superintendent of Public Instruction for his approval
in conformity to the Revised Statutes,
On motion of Mr. Norveli,
The Committee on Branches were authorized to appoint:
an assistant in the Pontiac Branch whenever they mav deem
it necessary.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That Glass' "Life of Washington" be restored to the
list of class-books used in the University Branches.
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized whenever the funds arising from tuition should be sufficient to defray
the expenses, to purchase for the use of the Branches a set of
globes, maps, a barometer, thermometer, raiin-guage and hydrometer.
(n motion of Mr. Norvell,
Resolved, That the price of tuition in the Detroit and Monroe
Branches of the University of Michigan be fixed at Nineteen dollars
and fiffy cents per aninltum, for each pupil.
On motion the Board adjourned to meet at the Capitol
at 7 o'clock in the evening.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Ifon. L. Lyon, Hon. J. Norvell, Chief Justice Fletcher, and Messrs. Wilkins, Leech,
Morell, and Drs. Pitcher and Denton.




58


JANUARY MEETING, 1839


The President annoulnced the assent of the Governor
and the Superintendent of Public Instruction to the plan
of the University tBuilding', as required by law.
On motion of Judge Fletcher, Isaac Thompson, of Connecticut, was appointed Builder for the LUniversity, by yeas
and nays as follows:
Yeas:-Governor Mason, Messrs. Lyon, Morell, Pitcher, and
Fletcher, 5.
Nays:-Messrs. Norvell, Wilkins, Denton, and Leech, 4.
On motion of Judge Fletcher a Committee of two of the
Board was appointed to prepare a contract between the
Board and the Builder and Architect. Judge Morell and
Dr. Pitcher were appointed said Committee.
On motion, Mr. Slchoolcraft was placed upon the Committee on Professorships in the place of M'r. Crary, declined.
And then the Board adjourned to the 5th January next.
JANUARY MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, January 5th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor M:ason, Chief Justice Fletcher, Mr.
Justice Morell, Mr. Justice Ransom, Chancellor Farnsworth,
Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins, Adam, and Kearsley.
Chancellor Farnsworth presented an application from
Rev. L. A. Crane for an appointment. Referred to Committee on Appointments, etc.
Dr. Pitcher presented a letter from Col. Bankhead, of
the army, asking an appointment of Iieut. Ross to the Chair
of Mathematics. Referred to Committee on Appointments.
A petition from sundry citizens of Jackson respecting a
Branch was presented and referred to the Committee on
Branches. A letter from Noah Sutton on the subject of
water pipes wfas presented and laid on the table. A letter
from Neal M/cGaffey was presented by Mr. Kearsley and
referred to the Committee on Branches. A Catalogue of
Books, State Papers, etc., was presented and referred to the
Committee on Branches.
Mir. Kearsley submitted the following resolution, which
was laid on the table.




JA NUAR Y MEE TING, 1839


59


Resolved, That the sum of two hundred dollars be appropriated
for defraying the expenses of a meeting of all the Principals of
Branches at Detroit at such time as the Committee on Branches
may designate.
(n motion of M\Ir. Kearsley a Committee of Miessrs.
Kearsley and Wilkins and Dr. Pitcher was apointed to report a summary of the Proceedings of the Board of Reg'ents since its organization.
The following report from the Committee on Branches
was adopted and presented to the Governor to be transmitted to the Legislature.
The Committee on Branches respectfully report,
That since your Committee presented to the Board of Regents,
in November, I837, the result of their efforts to carry into effect
the resolutions adopted in June of that year, there has been opened
at Monroe a Branch of the University, under the direction of the
Rev. Samuel Centre; one at Kalamazoo, under the care of Mr. G.
B. Eastman; one at Detroit, under the supervision of the Rev. C.
W. Fitch; and one at Niles, the Principal of which,is the Rev.
Joseph Whiting.
The Monroe Branch was opened for the reception of pupils
Feb. 19, 1838. At this Branch -there are two teachers engaged. Mr.
Centre, the Principal, is receiving a salary of $I,300 per antlnum, and
his assistant, Mr. Hough, $600 per an mi.n. The latter gentleman
has been in the employment of the Board since the Ioth of May,
1838. Number of pupils at last report, 63. The Branch at Kalamazoo went into operation May ist, I838. Mr. Eastman, the Principal
of this Branch, receives $1,200 a year. Number of pupils at last
report, 22. At Detroit the building.designated for the use of the
Branch was not ready for Mr. Fitch till the 20th June last, when
the Institution was opened under the charge of two teachers, the
Rev. Mr. Fitch and Mr. Bissell, the former to receive $i,500 a
year for his services, and the latter, $800. Mr. Bissell has since
resigned his place iwhich is now occupied by Mr. Andrew Harvie.
Number of pupils at last report, 40.
Owing to the sickness prevalent in the interior of the State,
Mr. Whiting, the Principal of the Branch at Niles, could not commence his labours at that place till the 5th Nov., 1838. His compensation is the same as that allowed to Mr. Eastman. Number
o.f pupils, 9.
Whole number of Branches in operation = 5.
Whole number of Teachers employed in Branches = 7.
Number of pupils in the Branches last term = I6I.
The disposition' which exists more especially at the points where
Branches are established to convert these Institutions into Common
Schools is a source of embarrassment to our Branches and has
convinced your Committee that these Institutions are in great danger of degeneration, when organized in advance or even coetaneously with Common Schools. The want of proper boarding houses
in the vicinity of our Branches has hitherto tended very much to
abridge their usefulness and check their financial prosperity. At
Pontiac some efforts are now making to remedy this evil. Your




6o


JANjUARY MlEETIN:G, 1839


Committee have felt the want of authority to hold in some way the
Principals of our Branches responsible for the amount of tuition
fees which may occur at their respective Institutions. The reports
of the Treasurers herewith submitted will show the necessity of
adopting new regulations on this subject.
Respectfully submitted,
Jan. 5th, 1839.                  Z. PITCHER, Chairman.
Chief Justice Fletcher submitted the following resolutions, which were laid on the table:
Resolved, That instead of proceeding to erect and finish one
wing, or the Main Building, andl one wing of the buildings for the
University according to the plan furnished by A. J. Davis and heretofore adopted by this Board, the Building Committee proceed to
erect and finish the main front building according to said plan, and
that they also proceed to erect and finish the exterior walls and'
covering of the building designated on said plan for the Chapel and
Museum.
Resolved, That all resolutions and orders heretofore adopted
by this Board, inconsistent with the preceding order, be rescinded.
Resolved, That the resolution heretofore adopted directing that
the buildings for the University shall be faced with stone be rescinded and said buildings be built with brick.
On motion of Chief Justice Fletcher, William HT-. Boyd
was appointed Treasurer of the Monroe Branch.
Dr. Pitcher presented a contract entered into, between
the Board and Messrs. Davis and Thompson; also, a deed
from Joseph Lester to; the Regents of the University.
Mr. Kearsley submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be required to submit at the next meeting of the Board a plan for the re-organization
of the several Branches which are or hereafter may be established,
and that said Committee report the state of the funds of the University, together with the sum paid each Branch.
And then the Board adjourned to meet on the 8th instant.
January 8th, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Preesent:- Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Mr. Justice Morell, Mr-. Justice Ransom, Dr..
Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins and Kearsley.
The President being absent, on motion Mr. Justice Ransom acted as President pro ter,.
The Committee on Branches to which was referred the
resolution respecting the reorganization of the Branches
submitted the following resolutions, which were adopted:




JANUARY MEETING, 1839


6 


Resolved, Ist, That inasmuch as the Principals of Branches have
the power of deciding upon the adequacy of the security to be given
by the treasurers of the same, therefore it shall be the duty of
the Committee on Branches to deduct the amount of tuition which
shall have accrued to the Treasury thereof, from the salary due
to him or them at the end of each term and endorse the same on
their accounts for the information of the Committee of Auditors.
Resolved, 2nd, That the contingent expenses of each Branch
shall be paid by assessments upon the pupils in attendance, and that
all the funds arising from tuition shall be appropriated toward the
payment of the teachers, except the proportion heretofore set apart
for the purchase of a Library and Apparatus.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
publish a catalogue of the teachers and pupils of the several Branches of the University with an abstract of the Laws for the government of the Branches, together with such remarks as they may
deem necessary to give the public information as to the objects of
these Institutions.
Mr. Kearsley submitted the following resolution, which
wvas adopted:
Resolved, That a Branch be established and organized at White
Pigeon in the County of St. Joseph, the Board being satisfied that
no Branch has been established in that County, the Superintendent
of Public Instruction not having approved of the location of a
Branch at Centerville; Provided, said Branch shall involve no pecuniary expenditure until expressly authorized by the Board of
Regents: and that any resolution heretofore adopted establishing.a Branch at Centerville be rescinded.
Mr. Wilkins laid on the table the following resolution:
Resolved, That the first business of every meeting of the Board
shall be the reading of the minutes of the preceding meeting of
the Board from the Journal.
And then the Board adjolurned to meet again tomorrow.
Detroit, January 9th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presen.t: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Chief Justice Fletcher, Mr. Justice Morell, Mr. Justice Ransom, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins, Kearsley, and Dr.
Denton.
The President laid on the table a communication from
the Superintendent of Public Instruction giving his assent:to the establishment of a Branch at White Pigeon.




62


JANUARY MEETIANG, 1839


Dr. Denton submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted;
Resolved, That the Building Committee be authorized to lease
a suitable room in Ann Arbor for the accommodation of said Committee an'd:the Superintendent of the Buildings, at a cost not to
exceed Seventy-five dollars per annum.
MNr. Kearsley submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted, and a copy thereof transmitted to the Governor to be laid before the Legislature.
Resolved, That the Legislature be petitioned to grant to the
Board of Regents the right to transport materials for the University buildings at Ann Arbor upon the Central Rail Road free of
toll, and also to convey the Superintendent of said buildings and the
Regents when their business shall necessarily require them to travel
said road.'
The fifth of a series of resolutions offered by Chief Justice Fletcher on the 5th instant was taken up and adopted.
The Committee on Branches were: authorized to employ
an additional assistant to the Principal of the Detroit
B:ranch, provided the expense does not exceed Six Htundred
dollars.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the sum of Five hundred dollars be appropriated
to the Branch at White Pigeon for the current year, provided the
same shall be organized by the transfer of the grounds and buildings to the Board of Regents and the appointment of a Principal
and at least one Tutor.
Chief Justice Fletcher submitted the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the contracts and proceedings of the Building
Committee consisting of Edward Mundy, Elon Farnsworth, and
AWm. A. Fletcher be hereby ratified and confirmed, and that the said
Committee have power and authority to make contracts for materials for the buildings of the University with such other powers as
properly appertain to a building committee, until the further order
of this Board; and it is further directed, that the said Committee
before making contracts for timber or other materials necessary
for said buildings, shall give reasonable public notice in two public
Newspapers, one in the village of Ann Arbor and the other in Detroit, for proposals for furnishing such materials.
The Board adjourned to the 23rd instant.
1At this date the State owned and operated the Michigan Central Rail
Road.




SECOND JANUA/RY MEETING, 1839


63


SECOND JANUARY MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, January 23rd, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor MAundy, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Chancellor Farnsworth, M/r. Justice Morell, Dr.
Pitcher, and Messrs. Kearsley, Wilkins, and Adam.
Lieutenant-Governor Mundv took the Chair.
Dr. Pitcher presented the reports of the Principals of the
several Branches, which were accepted and ordered to be
filed.
Dr. Pitcher presented the proceedings of a meeting of
the citizens of WVhite Pigeon accepting of the terms proposed by the Board for the organization of a Branch at
that place.
C)n motion of M\r. Adam the following persons were appointed to the several offices set opposite to their names for
said Branch.
Neal _McGaffay,
Dr. William M. Elliott,
Dr. W. G. Harper,       Visitors.
Chapman Yates,
Fdwin Kellogg.
Melancthon Judson, Treasurer.
Dr. Pitcher presented the Bond of the Treasurer, which
was filed.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee to which was referred
a communication from George Wilson, accompanied by certain documents respecting his American Class Reader and
Arithmetic, made a report recommending and permitting
the use of the same in the Branches of the University, which
was adopted.
The Board of Auditors to which was referred the annual
report of the Treasurer, made the following report, accompanied by resolutions which were severally adopted:
The Committee of Auditors of the Board of Regents to whom
by resolution of the Board was referred the annual account of the
Treasurer of the Board,
Report, That they have fully examined said account and compared each item with the audited accounts, and the warrant and
Receipt Book kept by the Secretary of the Board and are happy to




64   SECOND JANUARY MEETING, 1839


find a perfect agreement and the account just and correct. They
offer the following resolutions.
Resolved, That the annual account of John Norton, Jr., Esq.,
Treasurer, is hereby approved and that with the accompanying documents it be filed with the Secretary.
Resolved, That the Committee be discharged.
Resolved, That the sum of Eleven thousand Nine hundred and
twenty-five dollars and forty-one cents, being an overdraft of the
Treasurer's account with the Bank of Michigan be appropriated for
-the payment of the same.
M-r. Kearsley submitted the followingo resolutions, which
were adopted:
Resolved, That the Treasurer be authorized and required to
pay in the City of New York Three thousand dollars, being the
amount of interest due on the One hundred thousand dollars loan,
and that he be required to pay said interest hereafter promptly as
the same may fall due.
Resolved, That the President of the Board on filing with the
Secretary the Bond of Dr. Asa Gray with his receipt for Six thousand five hundred dollars, heretofore appropriated for a Library
and his salary, do receive his receipt given for that amount.
On motion of Lieutenant-Governor M undy, it was ordered that the Committee on Building be authorized to dig
a well on the University Grounds at LAnn Arbor.
On motion, the account of the City of Detroit for paving
ing around the Branch building was referred to the Committee on Branches.
MNr. Wilkins made the following report, accompanied by
a resolution:
The Committee appointed by a Resolution of the Board to in-,quire into the legality of appropriations made out of the fund derived from the sale of University Lands for the support of University Branches,
Report, That they have given the subject that consideration
which its importance merits. The lands mentioned in the resolution compose the munificent grant made by the Congress of the
United States in the Act of the 20th May, 1836, entitled, "An Act
concerning a Seminary of Learning in the Territory of Michigan.'
for the use and support of a University within the said Territory
and for nto other use or purpose whatsoever.
In enquiring into the legality of appropriations made out of
the said Fund for the support of University Branches, two questions present themselves:
First. In what sense 'is the word University used in the Act of
Congress? and,
Second. To what object and extent was the donation designed?
First. In the Act of Congress the Secretary of the Treasury
was authorized to set apart and reserve from sale out of any of
the Public Lands within the Territory-of Michigan to which the




SECOND JANUARY MEETING, 1839


65


Indian title was extinguished, a quantity of land not exceeding two
entire Townships for the use and support of a University within
the Territory aforesaid and for no other use or purpose whatsoever, to be located in tracts of land corresponding with any of the
legal divisions into which the Public Lands are authorized to be
surveyed, not less than one Section, one of which said Townships
so set apart and reserved from sale shall be in lieu of an entire
Township of land, directed to be located in said Territory for the
use of a Seminary of Learlilg therein by an Act of Congress entitled, "An Act making provisions for the disposal of the Public
Lands, in the Indian Territory, and for other purposes," approved
March 20, I804. By the provisions of this Act this liberal fund is
specifically dedicated to the Use and Support of a University. What
then is a University? It will be perceived that the language of the
original donation is changed in the body of the Act, although retained in the title. A Seminary of Learning may in some respects
be synonymous with a University, but there are many Seminaries
of Learning that could not properly be termed Universities. For
instance, a Female Academy or an Elementary School is a Seminary
of Learning, but not a University; for all the Sciences are not
taught in such Institutions; they might be roots or branches to
such an establishment; they might be parts of the Body, but not
the Body itself. Webster, in his Dictionary, defines a University to be "An assemblage of colleges, established in any place with
Professors for instructing students in the Sciences, and other
branches of learning, and where degrees are conferred."  It is
therefore an assemblage of Colleges and not one College and comprehends instruction in all Sciences and Arts. It is not necessary
to meet the force of this definition that all these Colleges must
necessarily be located in one village. It is sufficient if the main
and principal College where the degrees are *to be conferred has
-the superintending government of the whole. This is frequently
the case, and it must be supposed that Congress had this in view
in changing the Language of the Gift. In' I804 when it was first
made, the land was comparatively of little value and scarcely suffi-,cient -to justify any reasonable anticipations of its meeting the exigencies of even a Seminary of Learning. The Country was then a
wilderness, and the most sanguine could not have anticipated the
wonderful increase of population which twenty years was destined
to make in the West. But in I826 three new States had sprung
-up like magic from this very wilderness, and rapid settlements and
improvements iwere everywhere meeting the view and enhancing the
value of the Public Lands. That which was designated for a Seminary could well be extended to a University: that which was
-thought could' nourish only one College was now deemed amply sufficient for the use and support of an assemblage of Colleges within
-the designated Territory. The spirit of this congressional donation
is not to be confined to the mere erection of a splendid edifice for
the purpose of displaying to the eye of taste this or that order of
architecture or with the ignoble view of ornamenting and increasing the values of this or that village, within the Territory of Michigan; it was not intended "for the use and support" of a University
of Brickbats and Mortar; but unquestionably designed to promote
Learning and for the cheap education of the People.
The evil had long been, perceived by the people of the United.States that College education, maintained by the Public Funds of




66   SECOND JANUARY MEETING, I839


the different States, was principally confined to the children of tihe
wealthy who could afford to send and maintain their sons at such
Institutions. But all alike had not the same advantage, and many
a stupid heir of Fortune received the parchment title of an A.B.
or an AS.S.., when impoverished genius and talent had to struggle
on without this Public facility. Congress, in this Act, determined
differently in the appropriation of this portion of the Public domain for the use of a University designed for the education or the
People of the Peninsula of Michigan. They made the appropriation for the University of Michigan and not for a single Seminary
of Learning. Now a University is general in its signification; it
not only comprehends instruction in all Arts and Sciences, but in
every branch of learning from the preparatory school where a-b-cdarian principles are taught, to that standard of scientific perfection when it is deemed fit and proper to confer upon him the final
degree.
But secondly. To what object and extent was the donation
designed?
The language of the Act is, "for the use and support of a University and for no other use or purpose whatsoever."  Your Committee have already explained the sense in which they conceived
Congress used the word "University." It now becomes essential to
consider the prohibitory phrase: "for no other use or purpose whatsoever." Your Committee believe that Congress intended' this fund
to the purpose of education and inhibit its being used for any other
purpose: such as its ever being devoted to meet the expenses of the
Territorial or future State Government, or even being used in
works of Internal Improvement, or any other object of general
State concernment, than the sacred purpose of General Instruction.
In other words it was a munificent endowment of a University in
Michigan by 'the Government of the United States. The consecration of the Fund is not, in the opinion of your Committee, expresslyv limited to expenditures upon a splendid building, or the support
of Professors who shall be called to instruct the youth there. The
language of the Law is more extensive. The spirit of the times in
which it was enacted was more liberal. There were Universities
then,in existence elsewhere, both in Europe and America, and' it
was well understood 'that the college buildings did not compose the
University. The German Universities had no specific buildings
whatsoever. The University of Dublin had its colleges other than
in the city or its immediate vicinage. The University of Virginia
had throughout the State its preparatory schools, and the University of' Canonsburgh and Pennsylvania had its Law and Medical
Departments at distant places from the Mother Institution. But
all were included within the Maternal protection and comprehended
in the meaning of "the University." Your Committee are of opinion that the spirit and meaning of the Act of Congress not only
dedicates the University Fund to the erection of the Main Buildinoat some designated place in M'ichigan and the support of instruction
there, but also for the use and support of such necessary Branches
as may by the competent authority be deemed essential as preparatory schools to supply from time to time with students qualified to
pursue with advantage the higher branches of Science. The main
edifice would be but a standing Monument of Folly and Wasteful
extravagance if unoccupied with students, and the various Professorships but sinecure posts of honor.




SECOND JANUAiRY MEETING, 1839                    67
It is surely not within the bounds of reasonable anticipation
that the Halls will be filled with students from other States. Although Michigan does present a beautiful and liberal; system calculated to entice students from other States, yet it would be unwise,
unpatriotic, to depend altogether upon that source. Other States
have their own state Institutions and will in a great measure receive the encouragement of their own citizens: and this munificent
grant of Congress to Michigan should not be so construed as to
operate to the measurable exclusion of the youth of Michigan. The
Branches, then, form a very essential part of the University. They
are the arms ~which feed the mouth of the Body, the roots which
nourish the trunk of the tree. Your Committee are strengthened
in this construction of the Act of Congress by the subsequent legislation of that Body, which if not allowed to give meaning to the
previous legislative language, yet at least must be considered as
enlarging the terms of the grant. The Congress of the United
States is the donor. The State of Michigan is the recipient of the
gift. There are no other parties to the transaction. If the donee
violate the terms of the Contract, the subject matter might revert;
but it is perfectly competent for the Donor, or original proprietor
with the consent of the donee to enlarge the objects of his benevolence.
The grant was made by an Act of Congress on the 20th May,
I826. On the 15th of June, 1836, ten years afterwards, Congress
passed the act providing for the admission of Michigan into mne
Union and in the 2nd Section enacts, "that the constitution and
State Government which the People of Michigan have formed for
themselves, be and the same is hereby accepted and ratified and
confirmed." In the 5th Section of the Ioth Article of that Constitution, the Legislature of the State is empowered to take the necessary measures for the disposition and improvement of the Lands
granted by the United States to this State for the support of a
University; and the article further declares that the Funds accruing from the rents or sale of such lands shall be and remain a permanent fund for the support of said University with such Branches
as the Public convenience may demand. This constitutional provision of this State in relation to this fund, the subject matter of the
specific grant mentioned in the Act of 1826, was affirmeci, ratified,
and accepted by Congress, the original proprietor and Donor. If,
therefore, the prohibitory words of the Act of I826 limiting the
grant for the use and purpose of an University and no other use
or purpose whatsoever, must receive the strict construction o con 
firming all appropriations out of this Fund to the Main Building
at Ann Arbor, your Committee are of opinion that the ratification
by Congress of the Constitution of the State enlarges the terms of
the donation and justifies the use of the funds for the maintenance
and support of Branches. In pursuance of the power thus vested
in them by the Constitution of the State, and thus confirming and
recognized by the Congress of the United States, the Legislature has
assumed the control of the subject matter and enacted the Law organizing the Board of Regents of the University and directing the
establishment of its Branches. In Section Io of Chapter 2nd of
Title ii of the Revised Code, it is made the duty of the Board of
Regents together with the Superintendent of Public Instruction to
establish Branches of the University in the different parts of the
State and providing that there shall not be more than one in any




68    THIRD JANUARY MiEETING, 1839


one organized County of the State. This confers ample power upon
the Board of Regents in connection with the Superintendent of
Public Instruction to appropriate the funds dedicated by the Act of
Congress to the support of the University to the use and support
of the Branches of that University. Your Committee conceive such
appropriations already made or hereafter to be made, as perfectly
legal; and offer the following Resolution:
Resolved, That they be discharged from the further consideration of the subject.
On motion the Resoltuion was adopted, and the Report
laid on the table.
lMr. Kearsley laid on the table the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Regents concur in the Report made by the
Committee on the subject of appropriations for Branches of the
University and that said report be adopted.
On motion the Secretary was directed to make a report
to the Senate called for by the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Committee on Literature be instructed to
enquire into the plan, if any have been adopted by the Board of
Regents of the University for the University buildings, the material of which they are about to be composed, and the estimated cost
of erection. Also, whether the loan of One Hundred Thousand
dollars, on the credit of the State authorized by an Act of the Legislature has been effected, in what manner and on what terms, if
effected; and what disposition has been made of said loan, with
leave to report by bill or otherwise.
And then the Board adjourned to the 30th instant.
THIRD    JANUARY       MEETING, I839.
Detroit, January 30th, 1839.
The Board met puruant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Chief Justice Fletcher, Mr. Justice Ransom, Chancellor
Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins and Adam.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication fromn     Messrs.
Langley, Coffinberry, and. Ingenon respecting the removal of
the Branch heretofore established at Centerville and accompanied the said communication with the following report from the Committee on Branches, which were severally laid on the table:
The Committee on Branches on laying before the Board of
Regen'ts a communication addressed to them through said Committee by Messrs. Langley, Coffinberry, and Ingenon of the village of
Centerville, ask leave to state that your Committee have replied to




TH-I RD JAN UARY il.ETIN.AG, 1839


69


that communication by sending those gentlemen a copy of the resolution adopted by the Board establishing a Branch at White Pigeon
and making an appropriation for its support.
Detroit, January 30, I839.      Z. PITCHER, Chairman.
Dr. Pitcher presented reports from the Branches located
at Kalamazoo, Niles, Pontiac, and White Pigeon, which
were severally read and laid on the table.
On motion, Mr. Kearsley was appointed by the President in the place of Chlancellor Farnsworth on the Committee heretofore appointed to procure a deed of release from
the Trustees of the University of Michigan, of land in Michigan belonging to that corporation, to the Board of Regents.
On motion of Mr. Wilkins, it was ordered that the Secretary sign the Proceedings of each meeting after they have
been approved and entered on the Journal.
On motion of NMr. WTilkins, it was further ordered that
the same be entered on the Journal as having been present
at the meetings held on the 3rd and ioth of MIarch last. [See
pages 37, 40.]
MIr. Kearsley sulmitted the following resolutions, which
were, on motion of Chief Justice Fletcher, laid on the table:
WHERE;AS, It is believed that the erection of the University
buildings, according to the plan heretofore adopted, is premature,
therefore,
Resolved, That no further contracts for materials be made or
other measures be taken for the erection of the University buildings
agreeably to the plan heretofore adopted, and that the order heretofore made directing the University to be built of brick be rescinded.
Resolved, That the sum of -----      - Dollars be and is
hereby appropriated for the erection of such buildings as the necessities of the University may at present require, agreeably to such
plan as may be submitted by the Building Committee at the next or
future meeting of the Board.
And then the Board adjourned to the 3Ist instant.
Detroit, January 3Ist, I839.
The Board met puruant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Chief Justice Fletcher, Mr. Justice Ransom, Dr. Pitcher, and
MTessrs. Wilkins, Adam, and Kearsley.
The Resolutions offered Ib Mlr. Kearsley yesterday were
taken up for consideration and the blank in the second resolution was filled with T'Iwenty Thousand.




70    THIRD JANUARY IMEETING, 1839


M\r. Justice Fletcher submitted the following resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Building Committee be authorized to contract for materials for erecting and furnishing four buildings for
the use" of the Professors of the University, and to be used until
the main buildings of the University be completed for the reception
of the Cabinet of N'atural History, Library, Philosophical Apparatus, and for other general purposes of the University; and to contract for the erecting and finishing the same; and that the said
Committee cause to be prepared plans of the said buildings and
submit the same to this Board,,with all convenient speed.
On motion, it was ordered that the Bond executed by
Jonathan Kearsley, Oliver Newberry, and Robert Stuart to
the Board, conditioned for the faithful execution of the
trust conferred upon said Kearsley by virtue of a resolution
of the Board appointing him an agent to negotiate the loan
of one hundred thousand dollars by an Act of the Legislature of Michigan, entitled "An Act to authorize a loan of a
certain sum of money to the University of Michigan," be
cancelled and delivered to said Kearsley.
The Board then proceeded to consider the Report made
by Mr. WVilkins on the 23rd instant, and the same was adopted by yeas and nays, as follows:
Yeas: Mr. President, Chief Justice Fletcher, Justice Ransom,
Chancellor Farnsworth, Mr. Wilkins, Mr. Adam, Dr. Pitcher, Mr.
Kearsley. 8.
Nays: Mr. Mundy. I.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
convene the Principals of the University Branches during the approaching spring vacation for the purpose of devising a uniform
system of instruction in the Branches and to recommend to the
Board of Regents a catalogue of text-books for the adoption of the
Board, and that the Committee of Auditors be authorized to audit
their accounts for their reasonable expenses.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Chancellor Farnsworth was
excused from serving on the Building.Committee, and Mr.
Adam was appointed to fill the vacancy in said Committee.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, the Building Committee was
authorized to annul, modify, or suspend the; contract entered
into by the Board with Messrs. Davis and Thompson and to
enter into a new contract with said Thompson.
And then the Board adjourned to meet on Monday, the
i th February.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1839


7I


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, February IIth, I839.
The Board met puruant to adjournment.
Preselnt' Governor MTason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Chief Justice Fletcher, Mr. Justice Morell, Dr. Pitcher,
MNessrs. Kearsley and Wilkins.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from sundry citizens of Branch County praying the establishment of a
Branch of the University at Coldwater, which was referred
to the Committee on Branches.
The Committee on Building presented a plan for the
buildings directed to be constructed under a resolution of the
Board adopted at the last meeting, which plan was adopted.
Chief Justice Fletcher submitted the following resolution, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the avenue of one hundred feet in width commencing at the north side of the ground appropriated for a site of
the University and running south through the center of the ground
he opened, and that the buildings ordered to be erected for the use
of Professors and for the general use of the University for the
time being, be erected two of them on the south side of the ground,
one on each side of the avenue hereby directed to be opened, and
two on the north side of the ground, one on each side of the said
avenue.
On motion of Mr. Kearsley the Secretary was directed
to give written notice to each member of the Board who
may be in the city, of the time of the meeting of the Board,
and that such notice be given on the day of meeting.
On motion of Mr. Wilkins, it was ordered that the books
belonging to the University be transmitted to the Librarian
at Ann Arbor.
On motion of Mr. Kearsley it was Resolved that the
Branch at White Pigeon be placed by the Committee on
Branches on the same footing as other Branches already established.
And then the Board adjourned to the 23rd February
next.
SECOND FEBRUARY MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, February 23rd, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Mr. Justice Morell, Chancel



72


MARCH MEETING, 1839


lor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins illd
Kearsley.
No quorum appearing the Board adjourned to meet on
the 26th instant.
THIRD FEBRUARY MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, February 26th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment. 
P1resent: Governor Mason, Mr. Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins, Kearsley,
and Adam.
Mr. Kearsley presented a communication from     Mir.
Fitch, Principal of the Detroit Branch, asking' for an increase of his salary; also, a communication from the Board
of Visitors of said Branch on the same subject. Said communications were referred to the Committee on Branches.
Mr. Kearsley presented a communication from    C. C.
Douglass respecting the lands located for the University,
which was referred to Messrs. Wilkins, Pitcher, and Kearsley.
On motion of Mr. Kearsley,
Resolved, That Mr. Wilkins, Dr. Pitcher, and Mr. Kearsley be
a Committee in behalf of the Board of Regents of Michigan to
confer with the Committee of the Senate on State affairs and remonstrate against the report or passage by the Senate, of the Bill
for the relief of certain settlers on the University and State Lands.
And then the Board adjourned to the ist of March next.
MIARCHI MAEETING, 1839.
Detroit, March Ist, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Mr. Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr.
Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins, Kearsley, and Adam.
The President being absent Lieutenant-Governor Mundy took the Chair.
Dr. Pitcher submitted a communication from William A.
Colman, of the City of New York, advising the Board that
A\udubon's Ornithology was ready for delivery, and enclosing- a bill for the same.




MARCH l.rIEETING, 1839


The Committee appointed at the last meeting of the
Board of Regents, report, that they have this day presented
to the Senate, which has been referred to the Committee on
State affairs, a remonstrance.against the passage of the Bill
for the relief of settlers upon the University Lands, of
which the following is a copy:
To the Honorable, the Senate of the State of liichigaln:
The Undersigned a Committee appointed by a resolution of the
Board of Regents of the University of Michigan, do most earnestly, yet respectfully, remonstrate against the passage by your honorable body of the Bill No. 4I of the House of Representatives, for
the following and other reasons and considerations:
The Act of Congress of May 20th, 1826, (6th Vol. Laws of
the U. S., page 494,) authorized the Secretary of the Treasury to
reserve from sale, two townships or seventy-two sections of the
public lands for the purposes of a University in the Territory of
Michigan. This munificent grant to the then Territory was certainly made in good faith for the purpose therein expressed, and
with no other design and for no other purpose.
By the Act of Congress for the admission of the State of Michigan into the Union, those lands were placed at the disposal of 'the
-State for the same puropses and under the same restrictions.
The Constitution of Michigan, Art. Io, Sec. 5, provides that.the Legislature shall take measures for the protection, improvement,,or other disposition of such lands as may have been or may hereafter be reserved or granted by the United States for the support
of a University, etc., and, that it shall be the duty of 'the Legislature, as soon as may be, to provide effectual means for the improvement and permanent security of the funds of said University."
Upon the constitutionality of the Bill No. 4I of the House of
Representatives, the undersigned would, 'in this place, only ask the
Senate, whether the disposition of the lands in'question at $I.25 per
acre, or even any part thereof, is "providing effectual means for
the improvement and permanent security of the funds of said University."
Again. Fourteen sections of land upon the Niles Reservation
were received from  the United States as equal to 8,960 acres,
amounting, at $1.25 per acre, to $11,200, yet these sections, being
fractional, contain only 7,964.I5 acres, equal at same price to $9,955.I9, the Bill No. 41 thus proposing to sell at-a loss, even according to this estimate, of $1,244.81. In like manner, nine sections on
the Nottawassippi Reserve, would contain in full sections, 5,760
acres equal to $7,200, yet contain only 5,706.98 acres, amounting to
$7,133.72.
The lands in the Grand River District present even a still
stronger'case than the foregoing. There I,600 acres have been taken
for the University in lieu of 5,120 acres. Some of those lands are
alleged to be worth $5.00 per acre. The water power is also very
valuable. But the land alone is 3,520 less than eight full sections,
for which they were located. Consequently, estimating both at $1.25
per acre, the University would lose $4,400. In other words, the
money received from actual settlers would relocate 4,528.87 acres
less than the quantity for which the present locations were taken,




74


MARCH MEETING, 1839


the loss being $5,66I.09. Even under this view of the subject, the
Board of Regents entertain the opinion that the Senate cannot concur in the passage of this Bill, and thus sanction the inference that
the constitutional requirements have been observed, and that the
Legislature have by this Act "provided effectual means for the improvement and' permanent security of the funds of said University."
But the Board of Regents would respectfully call the attention
of the Senate to another view of this subject, in connection with
the aforesaid constitutional requirements.
The affidavit of C. C. Douglass, who located this land upon the
Niles and Nottawassippi Reservations, accompanies this remonstrance, and exhibits 'their average at about $20 per acre. From
this, it will appear, then, that the fund of the University arising
from lands on these two reservations alone will be decreased $256,333.69. This estimate, it will be observed, is made according to
what the lands were worth in I836; the increased value of the lands
since that time, although known and admitted to be very great, is
not taken into consideration.
But another and perhaps a stronger objection to the passage
of this Bill arises from the effects of the Act of the Legislature
approved April 6th, 1838, entitled, "An Act to authorize a loan of a
certain sum of money to the University of Michigan." Section 5th
of that Act provides, "That the Board of Regents shall make provision for the punctual redemption of said Stock (after twenty
years) for the punctual payment of the interest, etc., and all the
disposable income from the University funds shall be and is hereby pledged' for the payment of the said interest and the redemption
of the Stock."
Under the foregoing Act, the Regents have, in good faith, negotiated the loan of $Ioo,ooo, implicity relying that the Legislature
would never interfere with the University Fund, as it then stood,
namely, that all the lands would be held at a minimum price of $20.
per acre, and that the further sales (which can be readily made at
that rate) with those already effected, would enable the Regents to
'meet the redemption of said stock and interest punctually, and also
provide for the payment of Professors in the University, and the
Principals and Tutors of the Branches.
The Board of Regents 'are therefore reluctantly compelled to
adopt the conclusion, that, should this Bill become a law, it will
be necessary to suspend immediately, the operation of iall the
Branches of the University now organized, and also all contracts
now entered into for the erection of professors' buildings, and all
other expenditures whatever. The proceeds of the lands now disposed of, it is believed, will be no more than sufficient (making the
necessary and reasonable allowance for the lands which may revert
for non-fulfillment of contracts) to meet, beyond all question, the
payment of the principal and interest of the loan, and such contracts as are already made, and which must be fulfilled. Superadded to the foregoing considerations, the undersigned would very
respectfully further suggest the enquiry whether the Legislature of
the State has such power over the subject matter as to direct an
absolute sale or transfer of the title 'of these lands without the consent of the Corporation of the University of Michigan! and if the
State Legislature has such power, can the funds arising from such:sale or transfer be reinvested in the purchase of other lands?




MARCH MEETING, 1839                       75
The right of the State Legislature to direct the disposition ot
these lands, other than to the use of a University, if such right
exists, must be derived from the United States. By what Act of
Congress is such right conferred?
The University of Michigan, as at present constituted, is a corporation created by State legislation. But prior to the formation of
the Constitution of the State, the Congress of the United States,
by an Act approved the 20th of May, I826, "set apart and reserved
from sale, out of the public lands within the Territory of Michigan,
-two entire townships for the use and support of a University within the Territory aforesaid."
The consideraton, then, may be of some weight, in the careful
and just deliberation of the Senate, whether!the whole right, title,
and interest of the United States to the quantity of land mentioned,
was not, by the passage of the Act of 1826, completely parted with
by;the original proprietor and vested; in the Corporation of the University of Michigan. Briefly to illustrate the force of this suggestion: The undersigned would inquire who was the munificent donor? The government of the United States. What was the gift?
The land expressed in the grant. And who was the donee? The
University, and' not the State of Michigan. Has the land thus specified as to its quantity and object, in the Act of Congress, been
legally located and confirmed to the University? The answer to
this inquiry is to be found in the archives of the State, and is recognized in the first section of the Bill under the consideration of the,Senate.
The undersigned, in behalf of the corporation they represent,
forbear the intimation of any opinion, as to the vested right of the
University, designing only to place before the Senate those views
which have occurred to them, in the cursory consideration they have
been able to give the subject; and being confident that the more enlightened and extended examination which the Senate will give to
the Bill of the House of Representatives, in all its bearings, will.assuredly elicit justice to all parties concerned.
If "the Settlers on the University lands" are entitled by the
existing laws of the country to the right of property in the lands in
question, the undersigned cannot, nor would not, even for the hallowed purposes of educating the children of the people of Michigan,
1do aught to disturb the enjoyment of said, or interpose an objection.
But believing that the rights of the corporation they represent are,clearly defined, and legitimately derived from the only source of
title, they would deem themselves recreant to every sense of duty
to the University and to the people of Michigan, did they not most
solemnly, but most respectfully protest against an invasion of the
rights of the corporation as is assuredly calculated to render it
useless and defeat the object designed by the wise and liberal framers of the Act of 1836.
All of which is most respectfully submitted to the patient and
impartial consideration of the Senate of the State of Michigan.
(Signed) J. KIARSLEY,
Z. PITCHER,
Ross WILKINS,
Committee of the Board of Regents.
Detroit, February 28th, I839.




76     THIRD MIARCH?MEETING, 1839


On motion, said Remonstrance was adopted.
Mr. Kearsley presented the following resolution, which
was adopted, a communication from William A. Colman,
Esq., of New York, having been presented and read:
Resolved, That his Excellency, as President of the Board of
Regents, be requested to fulfill the contract heretofore made under
the authority of the Board of Regents in subscribing for Audubon's
Ornithology, and that the sum necessary be and the same is hereby
appropriated for that purpose, and that he take the necessary steps
for the transportation and safe deposit of said work in the Library
of the University.
And then the Board adjourned to meet again on the 6th
inst.
SECOND MARCH MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, M/arch 6th, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Mr. Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. -Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins and
Kearsley.
There being no quorum present, the Board adjourned
to meet again on Tuesday the I2th instant.
THIRD MARCH M)EETING, I839.
Detroit, M/arch 12th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor M/undy, Mr. Justice
M`orell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs.
Wilkins, Kearsley, and Adam.
The Governor being absent, Lieutenant-Governor \Mundy took the chair.
Mr. Kearsley presented the petition of Rufus Tiffany
and others of Brooklyn, Jackson County, for the establishment of a Branch of the University at that place, which
was referred to the Committee on Branches.
The Committee thereupon reported that it is inexpedient
to establish a Branch at Brooklyn, the Board having heretofore established a Branch at Jackson, in said County.
which report was adopted.




FIFTH IMARCH MEETING, 1839


77


Mr. Kearsley submitted a report from Mr. Centre, the
Principal of the Monroe Branch, which was ordered to be
filed.:Mr. Kearsley presented a receipt from  John Norton,
Treasurer of the Board for Six thousand thirty-eight dollars and fifty cents, being the premium   on the loan of
$ioo,ooo. with the interest thereon, which was ordered to.le filed.
And the Board adjourned to the i9th instant.
FOURTH MARCH MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, March i9th, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr.
Pitcher, and Messrs. Wilkins, Kearsley, and Adam.
There being no quorum present, the Board adjourned
to meet again on the 26th instant.
FIFTI-I MARCH MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, March 26th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor IMundy,
Chief Justice Fletcher, M\r. Justice Morell, Chancellor
Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and MTessrs. Wilkins, Adam, and
Kearsley.
Mr. Kearsley, from the C(ommittee to which was referred
the application of Mr. Fitch, Principal of the    Detroit
Branch, for an increase of salary, and a letter from the
Visitors of the said Branch on the same sublject, made the
following report:
The Committee to whom was referred the application of Professor Fitch for an increase of salary, respectfully, report, That
the deliberate consideration  of this subject has given your
Committee much embarrassment. Justly estimating the value of
the services of Professor Fitch, all would deplore their loss. The
Regents have established the salaries of the Principals of the
Branches, equitably graduated, in their judgment, to the unavoidable
*expenditure incident to their several locations.




78


FIFTH MARCH M/EETING, 1839


In tendering to Professor Fitch his present appointment it is
admitted that the Regents acted with good faith and unreserved
frankness., The salary, terms of payment, and all other needed
information of which the Regents were advised, were unreservedly
communicated. In the judgment of your Committee, these salaries
cannot, in good faith, be increased except upon the general principle
that all are too low. The exception in favor of any one cannot
be entertained without affording just ground upon precedent for a
correspondent increase to all other Principals of Branches. If,.
then, justice to Professor Fitch demands an increase of his salary,
your Committee are of opinion that a corresponding or proportional inc'rease should be extended to all other Principals. It is
alleged that the case of Mr. Fitch is sui generis, that the expense of
living in Detroit differs from all other places where Branches are
or may be organized. It may be so; yet this remains to be shown,
and the Regents should assume nothing as granted until the same
has been demonstrated. An application from a Principal in the
interior may present hereafter, if we admit the one now before us,
as strong a case, all the circumstances considered, as that now in
review. That others have not asked an increase of salary, is not
even prinma facie evidence that they do not need it. It only proves,.
what it is believed the Regents intended, that the Principals of the
several Branches consider the Regents as the exclusive arbiters upon
the question of salaries, and that they will unsolicited do that which
to them may seem equitable and just in the premises.
If the existing salaries are insufficient or unequal, it becomes
the duty of the Regents to increase and equalize. In forming an
opinion upon this subject, another consideration has influenced your
Committee.
A short time since a request was laid before the Regents by
Mr. Fitch that an additional Tutor be employed for the Detroit
Branch. It was alleged:that the number of students, and especially
the number of classes, had so increased at the commencement of the'
present term, that full instruction could not be given by the Principal and one Tutor.
The Committee on Branches, to whom this subject was referred,.
reported in favor of the temporary employment of a second Tutor.
The Regents sanctioned the measure and the same was carried
into effect.
The following is the result in a pecuniary point of view:
To sustain the Branch at Pontiac  one Principal         $I,200
"     "    "    (" "Kalamazoo  "     "             1,200.... "     ".    Niles     i"      "             I,20o
<" t       t.. i Tecumseh  "  "              1,300'."        ". "  ". Monroe   ".       and I Tutor i,9oo. " it          "    " Detroit     ".      and 2 Tutors 2,800
The Regents will perceive that the expenditure upon the
Detroit Branch exceeds by the sum of $900 that upon any otherBranch. Can they in justice to other counties that are now applicants for Branches and at the risk of merited public censure, yet:
further extend the appropriation to the County of Wayne? Your
Committee, although residents of Detroit, and as they believe, alive
to every interest for her prosperity, cannot recommend it.
The just estimate and' deference entertained by your Committee in common with 'the entire Board for the personal, moral,
and professional worth of the Principal of the Detroit Branch, has.




FIFTH AfARCH MiEETING, 1839


79


exceedingly perplexed them, and nothing less than the solemn obligation of duty in the discharge of that high trust confided to tnem,.
could have induced the Committee to report adversely to this.
petition.
The Committee would respectfully recommend that in this
and all other similar cases, as individuals, but not as a Board,
we urge upon the parents and guardians of pupils under instruction at the several Branches, such voluntary increase of tuition fees
as the respective Boards of Visitors may deem necessary for the
exemption of Principals of Branches from pecuniary embarrassment.
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCHER
J. KEARSI,EY
Detroit, March Igth, 1839.             Committee.
Lieutenant-Governor Mundy moved that the report be
adopted, which was decided by yeas and nays, as follows:
Yeas: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor M:undy,
Chief Justice Fletcher, Mr. Justice MIorell, Mr. Adam, Dr.
Pitcher, Mr. Kearsley. 7.
Nays: Mr. Wilkins. I.
Mr. Wilkins submitted the following resolution, which
was for the present laid on the table.
Resolved, That the Committee appointed by a previous resolution of the Board to remonstrate against the passage by the Legislature of the State, of Bill No. 41 of the House of Representatives,
relative to the sale of the University Lands to actual settlers, are
hereby authorized to employ counsel to take the necessary legal
steps to eject trespassers from the same.
On motion.
Resolved, That Messrs. Wilkins, Kearsley, and Dr. Pitcher be
requested, in behalf of the Board, to communicate with the proper
department at Washiington respecting the lands heretofore confirmed to the University of Michigan.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the following report, which was
adopted:
The Committee on Branches having had under consideration
the petition of the Citizens of Coldwater, Branch County, asking
for the establishment of a Branch of the University in that village,
respectfully recommend that a Branch be located at that place.
Chief Justice Fletcher submitted the following resolution, which was. adopted:
Resolved, That the President of the Board be authorized to
draw his warrant on the Bank of Michigan for all moneys heretofore appropriated and hereafter when appropriated by the said
Board, until the further order of the Board of Regents.




;8o


APRIL JiliEETING, 1839


Dr. Pitcher submitted the following resolution, which
was laid on the table:
Resolved, That the Committee on University Buildings be
instructed to cause the fronts of the four buildings now authorized
to be erected on the University grounds, to be constructed facing
inwards to the said grounds.
Mr. Kearsley submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Board of Regents procure
a suitable book and open an account current therein with each of
the Branches and with all disbursing committees, entering therein
a detailed statement or bill of particulars of items for which
expenditures are made, and that said accounts embrace all transactions of the Board from its organization.
And the Board adjourned to meet on the 2nd of April
next.
APRIL MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, April 2nd, 1839.
The PBoard met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Mr. Justice Moreli, Chancellor Farnsworth, and
Messrs. Kearsley, Wilkins, Crary, and Adam.
The President, Ibeing absent, on motion LieutenantGovernor Mundy took the chair.
The Resolution offered.by. Dr. Pitcher at the last meeting relative to the location of the four buildings directed
to be constructed on the University grounds, was taken up
for consideration. On motion, said resolution was laid on
the table.
The resolution submitted by MAr. Wiilkins at the last
meeting  relative to the eviction of trespassers from  the
University Lands was taken up for consideration. Chancellor Farnsworth moved that the resolution be laid on the
table, lwhich was agreed to by yeas and nays, as follows:
Yeas: Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Chancellor Farnsworth, IMr. Crary, Mr. Adam, and Mr. Kearsley. 5.
Aaays: Mr. Wilkins and Mr. Fletcher. 2.
And the Board adjourned to the 13th instant.




SECOND APRIL MEETING, 1839


81


SECOND APRIL MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, April I3th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Chancellor Farnsworth, Mr. Justice Morell, Mr. Wilkins,
Major Kearsley, Mr. Murphy, and Dr. Pitcher.
Mr. Wilkins presented    the  following  preamble   and
resolutions:
WHEREAS, The Legislature of the State of Michigan have passed
a Bill directing the Superintendent of Public Instruction to sell
to certain trespassers upon the University Lands, the lands they
occupy at $I.25 per acre, a price far below the value of said lands,
and which, 'if carried into effect, must diminish the Funds of the
University designed for the erection of appropriate Buildings and
the support of Professors and teachers.
AND W    RHEREAS, Withou!t certain competent resources to meet
such expenditures, it would be unwise and unjust to incur the same
where no reasonable prospect can be entertained of meeting the
demand for materials and service.
Therefore, Be it Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be
and they are hereby directed to close the Branches by the 24th
Dec. next and settle and adjust the accounts of the teachers employed.
2nJd, Be it Resolved, That 'the Building Committee be and they
are hereby directed to suspend-any further operations on the Main
Building at Ann Arbor and settle with the contractor and dismiss
him from further employment in behalf of the University.
Lieutenant-Governor Mundy moved to lay the said preamble and resolutions on the table, which was decided in
the affirmative by yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Mr. Justice, Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Mr. Kearsley,
Dr. Pitcher, Mr. Adam, Mr. iMurphy. 8.
Nays: Mr. Wilkins. i.
Mr. Wilkins submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted by yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Mir. Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Mr. Wilkins,
Dr. Pitcher, and Mr. Murphy.
Nay!s: none.
WHEREAS, A Bill has passed the Legislature of the State authorizing and directing the Superintendent of Public Instruction to
sell certain portions of the Lands reserved by the State for the
University of Michigan to actual settlers.




82     SECOND APRIL MEETING, 1839


Be it Resolved, That a Committee be appointed to prepare a
Protest against the approval of the Bill and present the same to
the Executive of the State.
Mlessrs. WVilkins, Kearsley, and Pitcher were appointed
the Committee contemplated by the foregoing resolution.
Lieutenant-Governor Munlldy submitted the following report and resolution:
The Committee on Building to whom was assigned by a resolution of the Board the duty of procuring a plan for the University
Buildings, in relation to that matter report:
That soon after the appointment on the eleventh day of April,
I838, being strongly advised, by several gentlemen of high standing,
of the merits and talents as an architect, of Ammi B. Young, of
Vermont, they through their Chairman addressed a letter to him
inviting him to make a visit to Michigan and proposing to employ
him as the Architect of the University. Mr. Young in answer to
their letter declined the proposition made to him, having as he
informed the Committee, been appointed to superintend the erection
of the Custom House at Boston, but proffered to the Committee
his professional services in making a plan of the buildings.
The Committee, having consulted with other members of the
Board, as well as with gentlemen well acquainted with Mr. Young,
on the I5th May last wrote to Mr. Young and giving him particular
description of the grounds and. map of the village of Ann Arbor,
employed him to furnish a design, urging him to give to it his
early attention and promising him a proper compensation.
The Committee were told by Mr. Young in answer that he
would commence the designs immediately, and devote to them all
his spare time. The Chairman of the Committee on the i8th of
July last again wrote to Mr. Young from New Jersey sending him
the views of the Committee upon some suggestions made by him
in his last letter, soon after which the Chairman of the Committee
received a letter from Judge Fletcher dated the g9th July, saying
that the Board of Regents had the day before determined to proceed
with all convenient dispatch with the University Buildings, and that
he was requested to write to him desiring him to see Mr. Davis.
the Architect from whom the Regents expected a plan, and to
urge upon him the necessity of making a visit to Michigan as early
as possible to view the site and determine upon the location and
arrangement of the buildings and other improvements. Upon receiving this letter the Chairman called upon Mr. Davis, stated to
him that Mr. Young had been employed as Architect, informed him
of the Judge's communication, and sought from him an explanation
of his engagement with the Board of Regents; and learned from
him that a correspondence had existed between himself and one
of the members of the Board, to whom anterior to the appointment of this Committee had been given authority to procure a
plan for the buildings. Mr. Davis, also informed him that Mr.
Young in a letter to him had expressed a willingness to relinquish
to him the production of the plan. From these explanations the
Chairman of the Committee was led to suppose that in his absence
the Board had resolved to look to Mr. Davis alone for a design,
and consequently, according to the instructions in the Judge's




THIRD     APRIL     MEl.EETTING, 1839


83


letter invited Mr. Davis to visit the Board of Regents. After the
Board had agreed upon the plan submitted to them by Mr. Davis
and after the return home of the Chairman, having understood
that no further correspondence had passed between the Committee
and Mr. Young and fearing that Mr. Young might possibly feet
himself ill treated by the Committee, although from the length of
time since he had been heard from, and the suggestion or Mr.
Davis, the probability that he had from his other engagements
relinquished in behalf of Mr. Davis this employment seemed strong,
the Chairman of the Committee wrote to Mr. Young stating the
circumstances under which Mr. Davis had been employed, stating to
him what Mr. Davis had said about his relinquishment to him of
this employment, and informing him that the Board had adopted a
plan furnished by Mr. Davis. In reply to this Mr. Young informed
the Committee that he had expended much time and study upon
the designs for the University Buildings, that he had completed: the
most difficult part, the designing, that nothing remained to be done
but the mechanical part, and forwarded to them his bill for three
hundred dollars, requesting its early payment.
The Committee have thought it due to themselves to make
this statement of their proceedings, and although the interests of
the University may have warranted all the energy and zeal and
dispatch manifested by the Board on its adoption of a plan and
preparation for building, yet they 'cannot but regret that any circumstances should have deprived the Board of the benefit of the
study and labour of Mr. Young in whose professional knowledge
and fairness of character the Committee have undiminished confidence.
Believing that Mr. Young is entitled to a just compensation for
his services, the Committee report the following resolution:
Resolved, That the President of the Board issue a warrant in
favor of Ammi B. Young or bearer for................ dollars for
professional services as architect and that the Building Committee
be authorized to place the proceeds of said warrant in the Bank
of Michigan to the order of Mr. Young.
Dated Nov. 1838.                 E. MUNDY, Chairman.
(n motion of Mr. Wilkins, the said report and resolution was laid on the table.
MTr. Kearsley submitted the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the President of the Board of Regents shall
draw no warrant upon the Bank of Michigan except such as may
become necessary upon the refusal of the Treasurer to pay drafts.
And then the Board adjourned to the 2oth instant.
THIRD APRIL MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, April 20th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Chancellor Farnsworth, Justice Whipple, Dr.
Pitcher and Messrs. Schoolcraft, Wilkins, Lyon, and Kearslev.




84


THIRD APRIL MEETING, 1839


The President being absent, on motion Chancellor Farnsworth was called to the Chair, and Mr. Justice Whipple
acted as Secretary pro tenmpore.
MAr. Kearsley, from the Committee appointed to correspond with the proper department at Washington City respecting the University lands, reported that they had discharged the duty imposed upon them and received an answer, which, with the letter of the Committee, were ordered
to, be entered on the Journal.
Detroit, March 2 st, 1839.
Sir:
Enclosed, the undersigned have the honor to transmit a copy
of a Resolution adopted by the Board of Regents of the University
of Michigan.
In pursuance of the duty enjoined, the undersigned respectfully request that Patents for the Lands heretofore confirmed to
the University of Michigan by the Secretary of the Treasury on
the 2ISt day of June, 1838, as appears by a letter from the Hon.
Jas. Whitcomb, of the 23rd of June last, may be forwarded as soon
as possible to the undersigned.
Yours respectfully,
HON. LEvI WOODBURY,                Ross WILKINS,
Secretary of the Treasury,       J. KEARSLEY,
Washington City.               Z. PITCHER,
Committee.
General Land Office,
April loth, I839.
Gentlemen:
Your letter of the 2Ist ultimo addressed to the Secretary of
the Treasury has been referred to this Office.
In reply thereto I have the honor to advise you that selections
have been made and approved by the Secretary of the Treasury
of a quantity of land for the University of Michigan equal to
712 sections including the river lots No. I72 near Perrysburgh,
which that Institution was authorized to exchange for other lands
by the act of I3th Jan., I830, and leaving only one half section to
complete the quantity of 72 sections originally directed to be
reserved by the Act of 20th May, I826,'and granted to the State by
that of 23d June, I836.
I beg leave respectfully to suggest, with the view of closing the
transaction and embracing all the lands in one patent, that you
request the proper authorities to report to this Office the selection
of an additional half section, on the approval of which a patent
will issue to the State with the least practicable delay.
Messrs. WILKINS,              I am very respectfully,
J. KEARSLEY, and Z.              Your obt. Servt.
PITCHE;R, Committee          (Signed) JAS. WHIrcoMrB,
of the Board of Regents,                   Commissioner.
University of Michigan,
Detroit.




THIRD APRIL MEETING, 1839


85


Mr. Wilkins-from the Committee appointed to present a
protest to the Executive against the approval of a Bill for
the relief of certain settlers, made a report, stating in substance that the Committee had discharged the duty imposed
upon them.
On motion, ordered that said protest, with the veto of
the Executive, bIe entered upon the Journal.
To his Excellency, Stevens T. Mlason,
Governor of the State of Mlichigan.
The undersigned, a Committee of the Board of Regents of
the University of Michigan, specially appointed for that purpose,
do hereby most solemnly Protest against the approval by the Governor of the Bill which has recently passed the Legislature, entitled,
"An Act for the relief of certain Settlers on University and State
Lands."
The Regents of the University of Michigan believe the provisions of this Bill to be inexpedient, unjust, illegal, and unconstitutional.
The inexpediency is inferred, because full justice might be
done to the settler by paying him a liberal compensation tor his
labour in the improvement of these lands out of the interest accruing from the University fund, and still the fund itself would be
retained for the purposes of the University. Under the provisions
of this Bill, the Lands already sold, and upon which one installment
has been paid, may be claimed at one dollar-and twenty-five cents
per acre, if the settler can prove that he occupied the Land prior
to its location; and thus it cannot be foreseen what portion of the
Lands, whether now sold or unsold, will be ultimately claimed at
this rate; or, how much of the $I50,ooo now unpaid, or, if the
$820,000 anticipated from unsold land, will be realized.
We respectfully urge the unconstitutionality of the Bill from
this consideration. The acts of a Trustee to be valid, must be
clearly limited to the powers expressed in the Trust. Now either
the Regents or the State is the Trustee 'in this case, as must readily
be conceded. The Regents claim to be invested exclusively with
this Trust, and the Legislature, by this Bill, claim the same Trust.
In either case, it cannot be denied that a limited trust only has
been created. The Congress of the United States is the Grantor
of these Lands, in trust for the "use of the University of Michigan."
If there was no University at the time of the grant, then the
grant is in abeyance until the creation of such corporation. If it
be alleged that the State is the recipient, still the State is only so
for the purpose of applying the grant to the uses for which it is
intended and limited. The Legislature cannot alter or e.rcecd the
intention and li.mit of the grant. But this the Legislature has done
by the provisions of this Act. The Act of Congress of 1826 reserving the Lands in question for the use of the University of Michigan,
confers no power on the Legislature to sell these lands or give
them away; and moreover, if the Legislature has the right, under
subsequent Congressional Legislation, which we contend cannot
impair the extent of the previous reservation, to direct the sale, they
cannot, under the provisions of our Constitution, reinvest the funds




86


THIRD APRIL MEETING, 1839


accruing from such sale. For a more extended view of the obligations of this proposed measure, the undersigned would very respectfully refer your Excellency, to the accompanying documents, heretofore presented to the Senate by the Undersigned. Believing the
measure to be fraught with ruin to the bright prospects of the
University, so fondly entertained by the Friends of Education;
believing the provisions to be contrary to the intent of the Act ot
I826 by which the munificent donation was created, believing it to
be in violation of the letter and spirit of the Constitution of Michigan, which directs the preservation and not the diminution of the
University fund, and recognizing no distinctive merit in one class
of our population, that rights should be legislated to them which
they could not make manifest in our Tribunlas of Justice, the
undersigned do,
In behalf of the people of Michigan, in behalf of generations
yet unborn, in behalf of the Board of Regents of the University
of Michigan, and standing on the Act of Congress of 1836, most
earnestly and solemnly Protest against the executive approval of a
Bill deemed so unjust and so hostile to the best interests of the
corporation they represent.
And we remain,
Your Excellency's Fellow Citizens,
(Signed) Ross WILKINS,
J. KEARSLY,
Z. PITCHER,
Committee of the Board of Regents.
Detroit, April I6th, I839.
Message of the Governor.
To the House of Representatives:
I return without my signature, to the House in which it originated, a Bill entitled, "An Act for the relief of certain settlers on
University and State lands." In refusing my sanction to the provisions of this Bill, I am governed by an imperious sense of public
duty urged upon me by the solemnity of my official oath. The
determination I make is a painful one. It has been framed, however,
after mature and anxious deliberation and cannot be resisted. The
ostensible object of the Bill is to secure to certain settlers on public
lands, their just right under the pre-emption law of Congress, which
is alleged has been interferred with by this State.  Does the
bill meet the object intended, and are its provisions limited to
the designs of the Legislature?
I will permit myself to enquire into the equity of the claims
of these settlers. I do not stop to ask how far the eager hopes
of the people of Michigan in an Institution fraught with benefits
to thousands yet unborn are crushed by the measure proposed to
me. The pre-emption law. was framed for the protection of the
bold and daring pioneer, who leads the march of civilization and
proclaims to the world the unknown beauties and hidden resources
of our western wilderness. For the protection of such men was the
law designed, and if the applicants under the Bill before me are
entitled to the right of property in the lands in question, not even
for the holy purposes of education should that right be disturbed.
How far, then, these claimants come within the spirit and intentions
of the legislation of Congress, I leave the Legislature to determine.




THIRD APRIL MEETITNG, 1839


87


To tie representatives of the people properly belongs the decision
of all such questions. Appreciating as they ever should, the high
interests committed to their charge, I am bound to believe, that
each claim, under this Bill has undergone the most rigid scrutiny
and that none other save a disinterested sense of justice, an anxious
desire to protect the rights of the citizen, and a high sense of what
is due to the' character of the State and our institutions, could
have induced your sanction to 'the measure proposed by the Bill
before me. If, then, a mere question of expediency was involved in
the bill, it might become my duty to yield to it my unhesitating
assent. But my solemn convictions sanction no such conclusions.
By Ithe first section of the Bill, you propose to sell at $1.25 per
acre, any lands located for University purposes, if it is proven they
were occupied and cultivated as pointed out by the pre-emption
law of Congress, before their location by the State. Where is the
necessity for this unlimited provision, releasing all lands located for
the University purposes, whether heretofore claimed by individuals
or not? What is the object of this wholesale temptation to fraud
and perjury? The applications before you have emanated from
that highly respectable class of settlers whose rights are effected
by the locations on the Niles and Nottawassippi Reservations, and
on the Grand River and Muskegon River. The relief asked by
these claimants should have been extended to them wherever their
claims are found to be meritorious. I am anxious to afford that
relief, and I regret that their rights have been jeopardized nDy a
wholesale species of propagandism in search of adventurers to
claim your Public Lands.
The Congress of the United States "has granted and conveyed
these lands to the State to be appropriated solely to the use and
support of the University of Michigan." The State has accepted
these lands, and the Constitution enjoins, "that the Legislature
shall take measures for their protection and improvement, and
also provide means for the permanent security of the funds of the
Institution." These are the solemn conditions by which the State
holds this sacred trust; and yet by one single enactment, you place
all the lands thus held in 'trust in the market at $I.25 per acre, no
matter what their value, where located, or how claimed. Yet it
may be said, they are protected by the provisions of the Bill from
all illegal claims. What is that protection? The feeble barrier ot
an oath, held out with a bribe and reward for its violation by bad
and wicked men. Can this be a faithful administration of the
trust committed to us? Is it the appropriation of these lands solely
to the use and support of the University of Michigan as required
by the compact with the United States, or their protection and
improvement as enjoined by the Constitution?
But the second section is still more fatal to this Bill. You
there propose to sell at $I.25 per acre "any State lands of the
State." What are the lands thus contemplated to be sold? Lands
for the erection of public buildings, and lands attached to the
State salines. These lands are donations under the provisions of
Congress at the time of the admission of the state into the Federal
Union, and were accepted by the ordinance of July 25, I836. This.ordinance is declared "to be irrevocable without the consent of
-the United States," and by the express terms of the grant, as confirmed by the ordinance, the salt springs and lands attached "are




88


THIRD APRIL MEETING, 1839


granted to the State for its use alone, they are to be used on such
terms as the Legislature may direct and shall never be sold or
leased for a longer period than ten years, without the consent of
Congress." It is clear then that the Bill before me is palpably
unconstitutional and cannot receive my sanction without a reckless
violation of my oath. By this decision, I am not unmindful of
the responsibility I assume, nor am I forgetful of the wrong I
may inflict on some meritorious claimant. I therefore regret it is
so general in its features. To a constitutional measure of relier
my sanction would be readily given. If the legislature in their
wisdom  will propose a remuneration to the claimant from  the
general fund, either in money or by the purchase of other lands,
or by any other mode which will remove the unconstitutional features of the present Bill, it will be my duty to sanction it. My
present objections do not arise from hostility to the claimants,
but from insuperable objections to the mode pointed out by the
Legislature. Every personal feeling and sympathy are with the
advocates and friends of this measure. My first impulse would
lead me to give it my sanction, but the convictions of my judgment
and my oath warn me to yield to no such temptation. I know the
personal consequences that are to flow from this act. I am aware
how little I gain and how much personally I may lose. But in
the conscientious discharge of my official trust, those considerations
shall never control me. I perform a duty I owe to myself, and I
leave the result to a liberal and enlightened people.
(Signed) S. T. MASON.
Executive Department, April I7th, 1839.
Mr. Justice Whipple presented the following resolution.
which was adopted:
Resolved, That a committee to consist of three members of the
Board be appointed to report on the following subjects:
Ist. What quantity of the University lands have been sold,
and what amount has been realized from such sale.
2nd. The estimable value of the unsold lands belonging to the
University, and their location to be ascertained by actual examination or otherwise.
3rd. How the proceeds of the said lands already sold has been
disposed of and whether the terms of sale have been complied with,
and if not how much has reverted to the State.
4th. Whether in the opinion of said Committee the interest
of the University would or would not be promoted by leasinginstead of selling said unsold lands and, if so, what portion thereof,
and the terms upon which such leases should be granted.
5th. What quantity of lands are in the occupancy and possession of persons who entered upon the same anterior to the location
by the State, the circumstances under which such occupancy and
possession was acquired, whether it would be advisable for the
Board of Regents to recommend the sale or leasing of said lands
to such occupants, and if advisable the condition of such lease or
sale.
Messrs. Whipple, Kearsley, and Pitcher were appointed
said Committee.




FO URTH APRIL MEETING, I89 3


89


On motion, ordered that the Committee of Auditors
examine the books and papers in the Office of the Secretary
and report thereon with all convenient speed.
And then the Board adjourned to meet again on the 27th
instant.
FOURTH     APRIL MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, April 27th, 1839.
T'he Board met pursuant to adjourninent.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor M.undy, Mr. Justice \Iorell, Mr. Justice Whipple, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and Messrs. Schoolcraft and Kearsley.
Dr. Pitcher presented the proceedings o'f the convention'
of the Principals of the several Branches, recommending'
sundry amendments to the Laws for the Golvernment of the
Branches, wh'ich were referred to a Committee consisting
of Mr. Schoolcraft, Mr. Kearsley, Dr. Pitcher, Chancellor
Farnsworth, and Mr. Justice Whipple, with power, if they
concur in said amendments, to cause the same to be published.
The Board then proceeded to the election of a Secretary of the Board of Regents in the place of Charles W.
Whipple, resigned, when it appeared that Anthony Ten
Eyck was duly elected.
On motion, a Committee of three, consisting of Messrs.
Kearsley and Schoolcraft and Dr. Pitcher, was appointed
to examine and report upon the accounts of the Treasurer.
Mr. Kearsley submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Secretary be allowed at the rate of $3.00
per diem for every day necessarily employed in going to, returning
from, and attending the meetings of the Board, and twelve and
one-half cents for every hundred words entered in any of the
Records of the Board, which resolution was lost, by yeas and
nays as follows:
Yeas: Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Mr. Justice Morell, Mr.
Kearsley.
Nays: Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, Mr. Justice Whip 
ple, Mr. Schoolcraft.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That the salary of the Secretary be fixed at Two!
Hundred dollars per a nntum and that he be further allowed the
same sum which by law is allowed to members of the Board in.
attending meetings out of the city of Detroit.




9~


JUJrTE MEETING, 1839


Mr. Justice Whipple moved to amend the resolution by
inserting the word "fifty" after the word "hundred" which
was lost.
The question recurring' on the adoption of the resolution,
it was decided in the affirmative as follows:
Yeas: Lieutenant-Governor Mundv, Mr. Justice Morell,
Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, Mr. Schoolcraft. 5.
Nays: Mr. Kearsley, Mr. Justice Whipple. 2.
The Board then adjourned to meet again on Wednesday
next, the first May.
MAY M/EETINGS, I839.
Detroit, M/ay Ist, I839.
Tlhe Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Prcsent: Dr. Pitcher, MIr. Schoolcraft, Mr. Kearsley,
Chancellor Farnsworth, and Justice Whipple.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Mr. Schoolcraft was called
to the chair; a quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned
to meet again on Saturday the IIth inst.
Detroit, MLay I th, I839.
Tlhe Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Dr. Pitcher and Mr. Schoolcraft. A quorum
not appearing, the Board adjourned to meet again on Saturday evening, the 25th inst.
Detroit, Saturday, MAay 25th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Dr. Pitcher and Mr. Schoolcraft. A quorum
not appearing, the Board adjourned to meet again on Saturday, the 8th June next.
JUNE MEETINGS, 1839.
Detroit, Saturday, June 8th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason and Mr. Justice Morell. A
quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned until Saturday
evening, the i5th inst., at 7:30 o'clock.




JULY MiEETING, 1839


9 I


Detroit, June I th, 1839.
The Board 1et pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Chancellor Farnsworth, Mr. Justice Whipple,
Mr. Justice Morell, Major Kearsley, and Dr. Pitcher.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Mlr. Farnsworth was appointed President pro tern. On motion, the Board adjourned to
meet on Wednesday evening-, the iQth inst., at the Court
I-House in Ann Arbor.
Ann Arbor, June I9th, 1839.
The Bloard met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor Mundv, Messrs. Fletcher,
M\orell, W\hipple, and Kearsley.
There being no quorum present, the Board adjourned
till Io o'clock tomorrow.
Ann Arbor, June 20th, I839.
The Board met pursuant to. adjournment.
Prese-nt: Lieutenant-Governor Mundy, Messrs. Fletcher,
Morell, Whipple, and Kearsley.
No quorum appearing, the Board adjourned to meet
again at Detroit, the 29th inst. at 7:30 o'clock, P. M.
Detroit, June 29th, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Messrs. Fletcher, Morell,
Pitcher, and Kearslev.
No quorum appearing, the Board adjourned to meet
again on Monday evening n.ext at 7:30 o'clock.
JULY MIEETINGS, I839.
Detroit, Monday, July Ist, I839.
The Bloard met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor M/ason, M\essrs. Kearsley, Fletcher,
fMorell, Pitcher, and Leech.
A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned until
Saturday the 6th July instant.
Detroit, July 6th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason. A quorum not lbeing present, the President adjourned the meeting- of.the Board until
the 9th July instant.




92


JULY MEETING, I839


Detroit, July 9th, I839.
'I'lhe Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor MTason, Messrs. Pitcher, Schoolcraft, Kearsley, and Leech.
A quorum not being present, the board adjourned to
meet at Ann Arbor on Friday the 12th instant.
Ann Arbor, Friday, July 12th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant.to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Lieutenant-Governor Mundy,
Messrs. Pitcher, Kearsley, Schoolcraft, Fletcher, Trowbridge, Duffield, and Denton.
The President announced the resignation of Hon. Lucius
Lyon and Hon. John Norvell and the appointment of C. C.
Trowbridge, Esq., and Rev. Geo. Duffield to supply the
vacancy occasioned by the resignation of the first named
Gentlemen.
The resignations of A. Edwards, A. G. H ammond, A.
Cooley, and C. C. Trowbridge, as Visitors of the Kalamazoo
and Detroit Branches of the University, were tendered and
accepted.
The resignation of G. B. Eastman as Principal of the
Kalamazoo B]ranch, was presented and accepted after the
termination of the present term.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Col. -Ienry Whiting was'
appointed as one of the Visitors of the Detroit Branch of
the University in the place of C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., resigned.
On motion of Major Kearslev,
Resolved, That we proceed to the election of a Treasurer of the
Board of Regents of the University, in the place of John Norton,
Jr., resigned.
Whereupon H. K. Sanger, Esq., was unanimously elected,
and on motion of Dr. Pitcher, the Treasurer was required to give bond in the same sum as was required from
his predecessor in office.
Dr. Pitcher presented the application of the citizens of
NMonroe for the establishment of a Female Branch of the
UnLiversity at that place, and on motion of Major Kearsley.,
the same was referred to the Committee on Branches.




JULY MEETING, 1839


93


The letter of Peter Harmony, Jr., of date New York,
May 30, 1839, relative to the Bond of the Regents, due the
8th May, was referred to the Treasurer with instructions to
adjust the balance due the Board of Regents.
On the application of Dr. Asa Gray for an advance of
$I500 to purchase scientific books on his own account,
Resolved, That the President of the Board be authorized to
draw upon the Treasurer for that amount if he shall deem it
expedient.
On motion,
Resolved, That Messrs. Kearsley, Trowbridge, and Pitcher be
a Committee to examine into the existing state of the finances of
the University, together with the proper mode of making future
disbursements, and to report upon the same at the next meeting.
On motion,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be requested to report
forthwith on the subject of;the buildings now erecting on the
University Grounds in Ann Arbor, the number authorized, the
contracts and estimate of costs, and such other information as
they may have in their possession relative to said buildings.
On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
Ann Arbor, July I3th, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: same as yesterday.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be instructed to give
notice to Mr. Thompson that the contract between him as Superintendent of the University Buildings and said Committee is annulled
by order of the Board of Regents.
Resolved, That the resolution heretofore adopted by the Board
of Regents, appropriating a sum of money to pay office rent for
the Superintendent and Building Committee, is hereby rescinded.
On motion of Dr. Denton,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be requested to contract
with Mr. Lum for the completion of the last two buildings mentioned in the contract in all respects agreeably to the specifications
mentioned in the two first, at the same rate at which he has contracted to finish the said two first buildings.
On motion of Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That the late Treasurer be requested to transfer all
-the books, moneys, papers, and accounts in his hands belonging to
the University, to the present Treasurer.




94


JULY     /IEETING, 1839


(On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be requested to obtain
from the Superintendent plans and estimates for the construction
of fences and out-houses for the several buildings so that the space
between the two houses at each end of the lot shall be included by
continuous fences, both in the front and rear, and equal lots appropriated for the use of each house.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That two additional members be added to the Building Committee, and that no accounts arising upon the contract for
buildings be allowed by the Auditing Committee unless certified by
a majority of the Building Committee.
Messrs. Kearslev and T'rowbridge were appointed the
additional members on said Committee.
On motion of Mr. Schoolcraft,
Resolved, That a Committee of three be appointed to submit to
the Board' of Regents such amendments to the organic laws of the
University as they may deem essential, with a view to their presentation to the next Legislature.
Messrs. Schoolcraft, Dutfield, and Mtundy were appointed said Committee.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Treasurer of the University be instructed
to obtain from the Michigan State Bank such warrants upon the
Treasurer or other documents and moneys as may be in the possession of said Bank belonging to the University.
On motion of Judge Fletcher,
Resolved, That there shall be stated quarterly meetings of the
Board of Regents to be held at Ann Arbor on the first Tuesdays
of January, April, July, and October in each year, the first to be
held on the first Tuesday of October next, and that the Secretary
give public notice of each meeting in the State papers at least ten
days before the time of such meeting and that he also send a written notice to each member of the Board by mail at least ten days
before such meeting.
On motion of Mr. Tro\wbridge,
Resolved, That an abstract of the Proceedings of the Board of
Regents be published in the State papers, under the direction of the
President after each quarterly meeting.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the Board adjourned to
meet at Detroit on Friday evening next, the I9th instant.




A UG UST MEETING, I839


95


Detroit, Friday Evening, Aug. 23rd, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Preseint: Messrs. Pitcher, Kearsley, Morell, Farnsworth,
Fletcher, Wilkins, Schoolcraft, and Dulffield.
On motion, MTr. Justice Morell was chosen President pro
tempore.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
On motion of Justice Fletcher, the vote taken u.pon the
adoption of the resolution at the last meeting fixing stated
quarterly meetings, was reconsidered and on his motion said
resolution was amended by striking out the word "January,"
and inserting after the word "October," the words "and at
Detroit on the first Tuesday of January." The resolution
as amended was then adopted.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from John Pratt
tending his resignation as Principal of the Tecumseh
Branch.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the resignation of MIr.
Pratt was accepted, and the communication from him referred to the Committee on Branches.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from the Board
of Visitors of the Tecumseh Branch, which on motion of
Judge Wilkins was referred to the Committee on Branches.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Committee on Appointments be instructed
to report upon the expediency of appointing Dr. D. Houghton, State
Geologist, a Professor in the University of Michigan.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet again Friday
evening, the 2nd day of August next.
AUGUST MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, August 2nd, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearslev, Pitcher, Wilkins, Duffield,
Trowbridge, Farnsworth, MXorell, and Whipple.
C1n motion, Mr. Justice M/orell was chosen President pro
tern pore.




.96  SECOND AUGUGST MEETING, 1839


The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher presented the report of G. B. Eastman, the
Principal of the Kalamazoo Branch, which, on motion, was
referred to the Committee on Branches.
On motion of Judge Wilkins,
Resolved, That the Bond of the late Treasurer of the Board
of Regents of the University of Michigan, together with all vouchers and papers pertaining to the settlement of his accounts be and
the same are hereby referred to the Finance Committee appointed
at Ann Arbor on the I2th July last with instructions to take all:necessary steps to have the same speedily adjusted.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from Geo. Byrn,
which, on motion, was referred      to the Committee on
Branches.
On motion of Judge Wilkins, the Board adjourned to
meet on Friday evening next, the Qth August instant.
SECOND AUGUST MEETING, I839.
Detroit, Friday evening, August 9th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor IMundy, Justices Fletcher and MIorell, Messrs. Pitcher, Kearsley, Duffield, and
Trowbridgoe.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher presented a report from    Joseph Whiting,
Principal of the Niles Branch, which was referred to the
Committee on Branches.
MAr. Duffield presented a communication from Mr. Isaac
Thompson.
On motion of Mr. Duffield, the following preamble and
resolution was adopted:
A communication was received from Mr. Thompson expressing
some uneasiness and misapprehension in relation to the resolution
of the Board dispensing with his services as Superintendent, adopted at their late meeting at Ann Arbor, and after some conversation
with him the Board
Resolved, That the resolution to dispense with his services as
Superintendent was induced by a conviction of the necessity of
economy on the part of the Board and a belief that having obtained
the full benefit of his services, it became necessary agreeably to




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1839


97


the contract to give 'him the stipulated notice before the relationship between him and them should cease, and further, that the
Board entertain full confidence in his integrity and fidelity and a
just sense of the value of his services as their Superintendent.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That to meet the expenditures under contracts made
by the Building Committee, the Auditing Committee be authorized
to audit such accounts and estimates as shall be certified by the
Building Committee.
On motion of Judge Fletcher, the Board adjourned to
meet again on Friday evening, the 23rd August instant.
THIRD AUGUST MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, Friday Evening, Aug. 23rd, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Morell, Wilkins, Pitcher, Kearsley,
and Trowbridge.
On motion, \'r. Justice Morell was chosen President pro
tc Eiipore.
A quorum not appearing, the Board on motion adjourned
to Friday evening, 3oth August instant.
Detroit, Aug. 3oth, I839.
The Board met pursuant to' adjournment.
Present: MAr. Justice Fletcher, Mr. Justice Morell, Dr.
Pitcher, and Maj. Kearsley.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned to meet
again on Tuesday, the 3rd Sept. at 7:30 o'clock P. M.
SEPTEIMBER MEETING, 1839.
Detroit, Sept. 3rd, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Mr. Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth,
Mr. Justice Fletcher, Judge Wilkins, Mr. Justice Whipple,
Dr. Pitcher, Messrs. Trowbridge, Kearsley, and Duffield.
On motion, Mr. Justice Morell was appointed Chairman
pro tenmpore, and C. C. Trowbridge, Secretary pro temnpore.




98


OCTOBER If1EETING, 1839


Dr. Pitcher presented a letter from Mr. Justice Ransom
on the subject of appointing Mr. Alden a successor to Mr.
Eastman as Principal of the Kalamazoo Branch. It was
then
Resolved, That the letter be referred to the Committee on
Branches with authority, if they deem it expedient, to appoint a
Principal, provided, that not more than $400 per ann1umt besides tuition fees be appropriated to that Branch.
The Board then adjourned to meet again Tuesday the
17th instant.
Detroit, Septelmber I7th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Mr. Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnswsorth..
Dr. Pitcher, and H. R. Schoolcraft, Esq.
A quorumn not appearing, the Board adjourned to meet
at Ann Arbor on the first day of October next.
OCTOBER MEETING, 1839.
Ann Arbor, October 1st, I83).
The Board met pursuant to adjourn-ment. A quorum not
appearing, the Board adjourned until tomorrow morning at
nine o'clock.
\Wednesday, Oct. 2nd, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-(Governor Mundy, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Mr. Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Judge
Wilkins, Rev. Geo. Duffield, M\ajor Kearsley, and Drs.
Pitcher and Denton.
At the request of the Board, Judge Wilkins officiated
as Secretary in the absence of the Secretary of the Board.
Major Kearsley, from the Committee on Finance, submitted the following report, which was read and'accepted:
Maj. Kearsley on behalf of the Committee on Finance reports.
that agreeably to the statement of the Cashier of the Bank of Michigan, 'the unexpended balance of cash belonging to the University in
the hands of that Bank on the first day of October, is $59,II9.47.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Committee on Finance, to whom
was referred the matter of settlement with John Norton,




O'CTOBER MEETING, 1839


99


Jr. late Treasurer of the Board, made the following report,
\which was read:
Report of Comlmi!tee on Finantce.
Maj. Kearsley on behalf of the Committee on Finance reports,
that John Norton, Jr., late Treasurer of the Board of Regents ot
the University of Michigan, admits a balance due from  him as
Treasurer to the Board of Regents amounting to between $3,000 and
$4,000, which sum he is now unable to transfer to his successor
owing to the fact that said money was deposited by him in the Michigan State Bank for safe keeping and that said Bank has suspended
payment. The late Treasurer therefore proposes to secure the ultimate payment of the amount due by him by mortgage upon unincumbered real estate and prays that such time may be allowed him
for such payment as under the circumstances the Board may be
pleased to grant. The Committee on Finance would therefore recommend that the period; of two years be allowed to the late Treasurer for the reimbursement of the amount that may be ascertained
to be due from him as Treasurer of the University with interest
thereon from the Twentieth day of May, 1839, provided he shall
execute a Bond or Bonds secured by M\'ortgage on unincumbered
real estate to the satisfaction of the Board of Regents, and further
provided that the securities on the official Bond of Mr. Norton assent to such arrangement and that the same does not operate as a
release of the said securities on said Bond.
)n motion of Chief Justice Fletcher,
Resolved, That the report of the Committee on Finance relating to the moneys in the hands of John Norton, Jr., late Treasurer
of the University of Michigan, be accepted and that the same be referred to the Committee on Finance, who are hereby authorized!to
take of said Norton the collateral security for any sum found to be
due the University in accordance with the recommendations contained in said report. And in case the said Committee shall not be
able to obtain from said Norton, security upon unincumbered real
estate satisfactory to them within twenty days from this date, that
the said Committee cause a suit to be commenced forthwith upon the
Bond of said Norton and his sureties.
Chancellor Farnsworth from the Co-mmittee on Appointments to whom had been referred the resolution respecting
the appointment of a Professorship of Geology and Mineralogy, made the following report, which was read:
Report of Conullittee on Appointtmentts.
The Committee on Appointments have had under consideration
the resolution referred to them at a prior meeting and beg leave to
report that 'the period has arrived 'when, in their judgment, the
interests of the Institution requires the designation of a person to
fill the Professorship of Geology and Mineralogy. The buildings
at Ann Arbor are in such a state of forwardness as to justify the
belief that one of them will be ready to be appropriated to this
object in the course of the Autumn.




I00


OCTOBER MEETING, 1839


The collections made by the State Geologist for the University's
Cabinet are, at this time, extensive and require the use of one skilled
in their scientific value and properties to receive them and prepare
the entire collection for exhibition and lectures. In addition to
this, the Regents have also on hand.the fine collection of European
minerals obtained from the Imperial Cabinet of Vienna, through
the instrumentality of Baron Lederer. It is felt that both collections are not only exposed, in their present position to more than
ordinary danger of loss from fire, but by being withheld from
view, their value;is lost to the Institution and not appreciated by the
community at large.
Natural History in all its departments affords so varied and attractive a field for investigation, and!its advancement is so closely
linked with the process of academic and collegiate instruction that
it is felt by the Committee they could scarcely err in fixing on too
early a period for introducing the study in all its essential branches
into the walls of the University. It has been deemed wise to appropriate a portion of their funds to the purchase of specimens, books,
and apparatus, and the sentiment has been cherished from our first
meetings that every proper facility should be afforded to the Professors to place these studies on the most liberal and polished footing. It was under such views that the Professorship of Botany and
Zoology was organized and authority given to the newly appointed
Professor to visit the seats of Botanical and Zoological learning in
Europe.
With respect to the person to be chosen to fill the Geological
and Mineralogical Chair, a wide range has presented itself in the
numerous individuals who have distinguished themselves in these
departments in the United States; but there has been a perfect
unanimity of sentiment in the Committee in the ultimate decision
in favor of our present enterprising and highly intelligent State
Geologist. His zeal and patient research in the Northwest, his untiring activity and perseverance in every department of his appointments under the State Authority, and his sound and accurate deductions in bringing forward the results in his annual reports, point
him out as the man who promises to fill the station with honor to
himself and usefulness to the public.
The Committee beg leave to recommend the adoption of the
following resolutions:
Resolved, That the appointment of Professor of Geology and
Mineralogy in the University be tendered to Dr. Douglass Houghton, of Detroit, and that he be also charged with the subjects of
Chemistry and Pharmacy, till the Regents take further order in relation thereto.
Resolved, That the annual salary of the Professor of Geology
and Mineralogy be fixed' at.......... to commence at such time
after he shall have actually entered on the execution of his duties,
as the Regents may by resolution direct.
On motion, the report was accepted.
The question on the adoption of the first resolution reported by said Committee was decided in the affirmative.




NOVEM/BER MEETING, 1839                 IOI
On motion, the blank in the second resolution was filled
with "fifteen hundred dollars," by Yeas and Nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Mundy, Fletcher, Morell, Duffield, Pitcher, Denton, Farnsworth, and Wilkins. 8.
Nays: Maj. Kearsley. I.
The question on the adoption of the resolution was then
decided in the affirmative.
On motion of Dr. Denton,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be authorized to have
one or more of the buildings on the University grounds fitted up as
soon as convenient under the advice and direction of Professor
Houghton for the reception of the Library and specimens in Natural
History.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, made the
following report, which was read and writh the letter referred to laid upon the table.
The Committee on Branches ask leave to report that they have
communicated with Mr. Alden, the Superintendent of the Kalamazoo Institute, on the subject of the resolution adopted at the last
meeting of the Board and referred to them, from whom they have
received the letter submitted herewith.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet on Friday the
eig-htl day of November next, at the office of the Secretary,
in Detroit.
NO\VEMBER MEETINGS, 1839.
Detroit, Nov. 8th, I839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
A  quorum   not appearing, the Board adjourned until
Tuesday the twenty-sixth instant, at the Secretary's office
in Detroit.
Tuesday, Nov. 26th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presenlt:  Governor MAason, Chancellor Farnsworth,
Judge ~Wilkins, Chief Justice Fletcher, Rev. Geo. Duffield.
C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., and Dr. Pitcher.




I02


DECEMBER MEETING, 1839


The Proceedings of the first quarterly meeting and of
subsequent meetings were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher presented the petition of the Board of Visitors of the Tecumseh Branch, praying the reduction of the
tuition fee, which was, on motion of Justice Fletcher, referred to the Committee on Branches.
The President announced the appointment of the Rev.
George Duffield on the Committee to prepare a code of Laws
for the Government of the University and the Course of
Instruction, in the place of Lucius Iyon, who had resigned
his office as a member of the Board.
On motion of Chief Justice Fletcher,
Resolved, That the resolution heretofore adopted, directing an
avenue of one hundred feet in width, running north and south
through the centre of the University grounds at Ann Arbor, be and
the same is hereby rescinded.
Resolved, That the Building Committee be authorized and directed to contract with one or more persons, to dig land finish a well
on the University grounds at Ann Arbor forthwith, to be located in
the vicinity of the Professors' Buildings on the south side of said
grounds.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth the Board adjourned until Tuesday the seventeenth day of December next.
DECEMBER MEETING, 1839.
Tuesday, Dec. 17th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned until tomorrow evening at six and a half o'clock.
Wednesday, Dec. i8th, 1839.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Mason, Mr. Justice Morell, Judge
Wilkins, Dr. Pitcher, Rev. Geo. Duffield, Jonathan Kearsley,
and C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.




DECEMBER M:EETING, I839                     Io3
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, made the
following report, which, on motion of Judge Wilkins, was
accepted.
Report of Conmmittee on Branches.
The Committee on Branches have the honor to present to the
Board of Regents a consolidated report showing the condition of
the Branches of the University now in operation during the term
ending 24th December, 1839.
NO. Or        NO. Or   AMT. PD. FOR  AMT. PD.
TEACHERS       PUPILS    TUITION    TEACHERS
Detroit............ 2            28      $I88.44      $700.00oo
tFemales 37}7
Monroe...M.....   4   Males 37 70         290.03       933.33
Males   33
Tecumseh......... I              13        57.50       300.00
White Pigeon.....        as 1 70          198.00       80oo.o
Males   39
Niles............. I             20       8I.oo       400.00
Pontiac........... I             17        73.00       400.00
Total.....          Females 68] 218    $887.97     $3533 33
Males 148J
From the foregoing statement it will be seen that each scholar
pays into the fund per term the average sum of four dollars and
twenty cents, while there is paid out the average amount of Sixteen
Dollars and thirty-five cents for each scholar to maintain the teachers engaged in their instruction. The Committee take this occasion
to add that the Branch at Kalamazoo has been suspended during
the last term and that the Branches at White Pigeon and Tecumseh
have been organized since the date of the last annual report of the
Board and the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
Respectfully submitted,
N. B. One of the female Assistants of the Monroe Branch has
been employed without authority from the Board or Committee.
Z. PITCHER,
J. KEARSLEY.
IMr. Trowbridge from the special Committee on Finance,
made the following report, which, on motion of Judge Wilkins was accepted.
To the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan:
The Committee appointed by a resolution of the Board of Regents of the I3th July, I839, to examine into the existing state of
the finances of the University and to propose a proper mode of
making future disbursements, have the honor to submit their report.
Inasmuch as no general report of receipts and disbursements
has been made, the Committee have deemed this an appropriate




104


DECEMBIER MEETING, I839


occasion of doing so, although not strictly enjoined by the terms of
the resolution. They have accordingly availed themselves of such
sources of information as have been possible, in the absence of all
regular statements of the former Treasurer of the Board. These
have been the reports of the Superintendent of Public Instruction,
the books of the Bank of Michigan and the Michigan State Bank,
and the Secretary's book containing an account of warrants issued.
The Committee have made a careful examination of the last mentioned book and prepared from it an abstract of expenditures which,
upon comparison, is found 'to agree with the accounts of the banks.
The receipts into the Treasury from the 5th December, 1837, to
the I6th December, 1839, are as follows:
From the Board of Trustees of the former University
of  Michigan......................................$  5,454.7I
From the State of Michigan on loans in bonds of the
State, bearing interest at ithe rate of six per centum
per  annum.......................................  Ioo,ooo.oo
From the Bank of Michigan, premium upon the sale of
said stock to said Bank...........................  6,o38.50
From the Treasurer of the State, being interest on University lands sold for the year ending August, 1838  9,433. I3
From the Bank of Michigan, interest upon the balance
of account up to 1st January, I839.................  2,583.82
$I23,5IO.I6
The sum paid to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, to be re-loaned, as acknowledged in his report,  is..........................................  5,454.7I
$II8,055.45
The expenditures from the second day of December, I837, to
the I6th December, 1839, have been as follows:
For the salary of one Professor of the University..................................$   1,500.00
For the support of Branches................. 3,I50.09
For Library, Cabinet of Minerals, etc., for
University..............................  8,279.5I
For Buildings at Ann Arbor, in part.......... 26,896.I9
For Interest paid: on State loan............... 6,099.75
For Clerk hire, stationery, printing, Rent of
room for Dr. Houghton, collections,
Agent locating Branches, etc..........'...  2,011.12 $57,936.66
$60,II8.79
The amount remaining in the Michigan State
Bank to the credit of John Norton, Jr.,
late  Treasurer  is........................$  4,482.30
The amount remaining in the Bank of Michigan to the credit of the Regents of the
University.............................. 55,644.90 $60,I27.20


Showing an apparent excess of.............


$8.4I




DECEMlBER MlEETING, 1839                     I05,
The available funds now at the disposal of the Board of Regents consist of a balance of money on deposit in the Bank of
Michigan bearing interest at the rate of seven per centum per annum (fifty thousand dollars of which sum is payable according to
the bond of the bank, on the Ist July, I84I, with a condition to advance from time to time in the year preceding that date, such sums
as the necessities of the Board may require) $55,644.90.
This sum will be increased on the 3Ist instant
by interest to be paid by the Bank on that
day.....................................  $6,155.02
Less interest on the payments made by the
Bank in the year 1839..................  I,735.94  $4,419.08
$60,063.98
The amount of interest for the year ending in August, I839, on
University lands sold: is not yet ascertained, but may be estimated
at $11,350.00, of the collection of which your Committee have no
means of forming an opinion.
The sums due by the University include the following items:
The salary of Professor Gray for the year ending I7th
July, 1839..............................         $1,500.00
The salary of Professor Gray for the half-year ending
I7th  January,  I840...............................  750.00
Bonds of the Board for Minerals purchased
of Baron Lederer, one-half due 8th May,
1840, and one-half 8th May, 1841..........$2,000.00
Interest from 8th May, I839............    87.50  $2,087.50
Balance of Contract for buildings at Ann Arbor, payable
upon the completion of the same, which will probably
be within the ensuing six months..................  $8,5oo.oo
Interest on the State Bonds to 3Ist December, 1839, and
and  premium   of  exchange........................  3,060.00
For the support of Branches, for the term ending 24th
December, instant, namely,
D etroit.......................................  700.do
M onroe......................................  933.33
Pontiac.......................................  400.00oo
Tecum seh....................................  300.00
W hite  Pigeon................................  800.o
N iles........................................  400 00oo
$I9,430.83
Assuming that the interest due upon University lands
sold  will  be  paid.................................. $II,350.00
And added to the sum remaining in the Bank of Michigan................................................   60,063.98
$71,413.98
And deducting the amount due and to become due as
above  m entioned...................................  19,430.83
There  will remain  the  sum   of..........................$51,983.I5
subject to the conditions specified in the bond of the Bank of Michigan.




*io6          DECEMBER AMEETING, 1839
The annual expenditures of the Board under the present organization are for University proper:
Salary of one Professor, per annum...................... $I,5oo.oo
Bratches.
D etroit..................................... $2,100.00
Monroe............................... 2,700.00
Pontiac....................................  1,200.00
Tecum seh....................................    00
W hite  Pigeon................................  2,000.00
N iles........................................,200.00  10,200.00
Interest on State bonds, and premium on exchange........ 6,120.00
Contingencies,-Secretary, Treasurer, Stationery, printing, travel of Regents when on duty, etc., estimated
at................................................  500.00oo
$I8,320.00
The annual receipts may be estimated as follows:
Interest on Lands sold..................................$II,350.00
Tuition received at Branches, viz.
D etroit....................................$5 oo.oo
M onroe...................................  700.00
Pontiac...................................  I50.00
Tecumseh.................................  oo00.oo
W hite   Piegon.............................  750.00
Niles....................................  Io.00  2,350.00
Interest from the Bank of Michigan.
This will depend upon the amount expended, but as the
sum of $50,000 will not probably be withdrawn before the same is payable by the bond of the Bank,
the interest for the year I840 may be estimated at..  3,500.00
$17,200.00
to which sum may be added the interest to accrue upon sales of
lands hereafter to be made. These will depend, in a good degree,
upon the state of the Country, now much embarrassed.
In regard to the mode of making disbursements, your Committee remark that no systematic plan has hitherto been pursued. The
warrants of the Board have been directed to the Treasurer of the
University, but in most cases they have been paid by the Bank of
Michigan. The Treasurer has in fact received no money excepting
that which was deposited in the Michigan State Bank, nor has he
in fact paid any other than the sums charged in his account with
that Bank, yet the records exhibit an account in his name, charging
the University with all the warrants paid by the Bank of Michigan
up to 5 July, I839, and showing a balance due to him of $11,235.03,
when in truth he was a debtor to the University in a considerable:SUIm.




DECEMBER MJEETINTG, I839


107


The reason assigned for this mode of disbursement has been
the desire -to leave the moneys in the Bank of Michigan in a condition to draw interest agreeably to the contract with that Bank. This
object may still be attained, according to the spirit of the agreement, by adopting the plan which your Committee have the honor
to propose, namely, to direct the Treasurer to lay before the Board
of Regents, from time to time, his estimates of the sums required
to meet the expenditures of the University, and to issue warrants
upon the Bank for so much of these sums as are not supplied by the
ordinary receipts into the Treasury. In this way the account of the
Treasurer will exhibit all the expenditures. In the present mode,
unless he borrows the vouchers from the Bank, as was done by the
late Treasurer, his account will show a part and the Bank account
will contain the other part, the latter being made without any actual
authority from the Regents.
Your Committee further recommend that the Treasurers of the
Branches be required to pay to the Treasurer of the University before the expiration of every term, the sums received for tuition and
applicable to the payment of Teachers' salaries, in order that the
same may appear in the accounts of the Board. At present these
sums are held by Treasurers or deducted from the stipend of the
Teachers, and it is difficult to ascertain the exact receipts of the
Branches. These payments should also be reported to the Secretary of the Board and by him charged against the Treasurer of the
University.
Respectfully submitted,
J. KEARSLEY,
C. C. TROWBRIDGE,
Committee on Finance.
Detroit, Dec. I6th, I839.




ABSTRACT'LS      OF EXPENDITURES BY THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AS SITATED IN                                                       c
WARRANT BOOK.
University proper
Minerals, Buildings Contingen- Int. on
Date                   To Whom                 Branches    Salaries   Books, etc.       at          cies      Loan
Ann Arbor
I837
December        2   -R. C. Gibson, Agent..........                                                          33333
December        2   'R. C. Gibson, Agent.............................$                   *333........................$  *333.33......... 
November       23 Geo. P. Williams, Salary.....          *333.33....................................
I838 
January          6  Kingsburv   & Dally, printing....................                               27.59.....
March           17  C. W. Whipple, Sec..........................                      75.00........
March           I7  C. ~W. Whipple, 2d quarter..........................................            * 75.oo.........
March           17  C. WV. Whipple, 3d quarter..........................................    * 75.00.........
M arch         29   Geo.  P.  W illiams............     *466.66..............................................
A pril          14  Baron  Lederer.................................,000.00.......................... 
April           I5  Samuel Centre..............  *254.I9..............................................
July             6  Jas. M. Burger, printing...............................*                    6.oo.........
July             6  Winchell, Desks & Secretary.........................................        * 27.00.........
July             6 C. C. Jackson, freight.............................              36
July            16  C. W. W hipple,  Salary..............................................      75.00.........
July            i6  C. W. Whipple, Postage...............                             *  5.o.........
July           I9 C. W. Pitch.........                   *3.........
July            I9  C.  W.  Fitch.......................*375.00...............................................  CO
July            I9  Whitman & Langley........            *36I.25..........
July            I9  W  hitman     &   Lan~ley.........       2..............................................
July            31  G. P. Williams..*40.00...............................................
July            31  G. P. Williams, drafting, laws
etc...........................................................         *3000.........
August           I  R.  C.  Gibson,  Agent......................................       2I0.00..........
A ugust         Io  Geo.  B.  Eastm an............      *400.00................................................
A ugust         13  W.  C.  H.  Bissell.............  *200.00................................................
A ugust         15  C.  W.  Fitch..................    *375.00.........................................
August          16  Samuel Centre..............  43333.............................
A ugust         I6  S.  H ough.....................       *200.00.....................................




August
September
September
September
September
September
November
November
November
December
December
December
December
December
December
December
December
1839
January
January
fanuary
January
January
February
February
February
March
March
April
April
April
April
April


3I  M. Clark, Recording..........
5  C. W. Whipple..............
18  A. J. Davis, Plan............
i8  Dr. Asa Gray................
I8  Do.  Library................
27  Jas. Whiting.................
I  Mundy, Fletcher & James,
brick......................
12  Bag-g & Co., Books...........
28  C. W. Fitch..................
0o   Andrew Harvie..............
Io  Detroit M. Post, Printing....
15  C. W. Whipple..............
15  Building Committee Water....
26  Andrew Harvie.............
27  S.  Centre...................
27  S. Hough..................
31  Geo. P. Williams.............
2  C. Beckley, Brick.............
5  G. B. Eastman...............
II  Davis & Thompson..........
24  P. J. Desnoyers, Rent........
31  Andrew Harvie..............
ii  Davis & Thompson...........
ii  H.  Lum....................
6   C. W. Fitch...........
4   P. J. Desnoyers, Rent.......
15  C. W. Whipple.............
3  H.  Lum......................
3  Building Committee, Well...
IM  Andrew Harvie.............
i6  M. W. Gray.................
I6  G. P. Williams..............


t300.00
*375.oo
*125.00.  40.00
'433.33
*I24.37
*600.00....................
fI,5oo.oo


4.........,.........,...................
*5,000.00,..........i.   I.......................
t 6o.oo..............................


'r- 10.00,
* 75.00.........I...................


*1,000.00.........5..........
$  65.50,...................I........................... ooo..
* 36.26..........
* 31.99,
* 75.00.........


ta
tl'
00
\o.........


'400.00,..............................
io09.oo.......
13750.00............
o,....o,...............................
tI57.66............
j-66.66...........
200.00.2,000.00,...................................................................................................


* 2I9.19.
* 625.00,
'$ 6I6.oo,:.I,000.00,..........
t2,000.00,
t   50.00,......... I...................I
- 42.50,
t 37.50
t 75.00.........


~~~~
~~~~
~~~~~~~~o
~~~~~
o
~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~
~~~~
~~o
~~~~~~~~r
~~~~~~~~o










H..........................   O




Date


April
April
April
April
April
April
April
May
May
May
May
May
May
June
June
June
June
June
July
I ulv
July
July
July
July
july
August
August
August


To Whom
17  S.  Centre...................
17  Sabin Houg...............
17  S. Newberry.................
17  C. WV. Fitch................
i8  G. B. Eastman...............
C8 joseph Whitino..............
25  C. 7. Whipple.............
I     C. W.  hipple. Stationery
etc........................
3  H. Lur m.....................
20E. P. Gardner, Advertising-....
20  J. C. Mundy, Stone, etc.......
20  H.    uln.....................
20  H. 1Lum, Well..............
14  J..Burger, expense......
17.    Lum.....................
20  Treasurer of Michigan.......
20  'reasurer of Michigan.......
26 (Geo. P. Willianms.............
I  Building Committee..........
2  P. J. Desnoyers. Rent........
2   -.  L um.....................
0o  0. Marsh, Libiraran.........
27  A. TenEyck, Salary..........
27  M. W. Gray................
29J. S. &    S. A. Bagg.........
30    H.  L u n.....................
3  Andrew   tHarvie..............
5C. W. Fitch..................
8  E. C. Walker.................


University proper
Minerals, Buildings ContingenBranches   Salaries  Books, etc.     at        cies


0


-43333.........
2CO.oo not paid...
4Zo00.CO.:2,cO0.OO
400.0C0  -2,000.00
500.00:2,00o.CO...................


Int. on
Loan


T400o.00
'200.00
ti9'.66
t375.oo
fr33.oo................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
1-!2.75......................................................................................................................................


Ann Arbor..........
12,00.0.............
t  21.25,
73,00o.oo,..........
J 200.00,
t 250.00.
3,5oo.oo0
t3,50. oo..........................


i- 35.00,..........
-   i6.oo
T 13.00..............................
37.50...........
t..72
t 50.00
t o10.50o


t3,099.75
t3,000.00........................




August
August
August
August
August
September
September
September
September
October
October
October
November
November
December
April
May
August
October


14  Geo. B. Eastman.............
19  S.  Newberry.................
20  Samuel  Centre...............
20  S. Hough....................
29  A.  H arvie...................
6  H.  Lum.....................
9  Joseph Whiting...............
28  S. R. Doty, Well.............
30  J. Kearsley, Expenses.........
14  Andrew PHarvie...............
14  Building Comnmittee, Rent.....
14 F.  L......................
8  M.   ori an  W  ell...........
21  C..  F itch..................
3  A. Ten Eyvck.................
Wvarrant Book................
265   endered to Audubon........
24  Rendered to P. Harmony.....
0o  Isaac  Tlhompson..............
Andrcew     -larvie..............
838   Interest paid onV varrants
in  1837.....................
17     H. Foug'li, not paid.......'...
26  John Pratt, Tecumseh........


t247.o05
t270.32
$433.33
1280.50
7100.00
1375.oo
$:2,718.97................................................................................
$r50. oo................................................................................................................................................


3,ooo.oo
-1 95.00
1 7.00,
T2,500.00
t 137.25.


$    35 9.........
$ 75.00.........
$1,979.98  $6,099.75
State Loan


ti
t-I


$6 o,4.ir $26,396.19


$54,743.00'..........
00.00.........


970.00


500.00


1839


April..........2...........  21..........  3.14
$12,850.09   $1,500.00   $8,279.51  $26,896.19   $2,011.12
200.00...........................
$ 2,065.09
50.0.................
$13,150.09


April




I2


JANUARY MEETING, 1840!  ote:
Items marked *, paid by Bank of Michigan and charged to
J. Norton, Treasurer.
Items marked t, paid by Bank of Michigan and charged to
Regents.
Items marked $, paid by State Bank and charged to J. Norton,
Treasurer.
Items entered in abstract from 6th to I8th April, I839, supposed
to have been paid out of $2,000.00 charged in State Bank account
May 4th, 1839.
The items $336.67 and $95.50 in State Bank account, do not
correspond with any amounts in Warrant Book, and are not under
stood.
There was a warrant, 6th January, 1838, of $127.59, which does
not appear in the shape of that sum in any account of payment by
either bank, but has been included in Mr. Norton's account with
the Regents.
I find in Mr. Norton's account with Bank of Michigan these
checks charged which do not correspond with any entry on warrant
book.
A ugust  17th,  1838.................................  95.50
October 27th...................................... 2I0.00
October 3Ist (this is charged in Mr. Norton's account
with  Regents)................................  I0oo0.
January  9th,  I839.................................  32.09
On motion of Judge Wilkins, the above was adopted
and on his motion the same was ordered to be incorporated
and made a part of the annual report of the Board of
Regents.
On motion the Board adjourned until the seventh day
of January next.
JANUARY MEETING, I840.
Tuesday, Jan. 7th, 1840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Justices Morell, Ransom, and Whipple, Chancellor Farnsworth, Judge Wilkins, Rev. Geo. Duffield, Maj.
Kearsley, and C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.
Gen. Joseph. W. Brown presented his credentials as a
member of the Board of Regents appointed to fill vacancy,
and took his seat as a member of the Board.
MIaj. Kearsley moved to refer the vouchers on which
the Finance Committee founded their report, to the Auditing Committtee.    Agreed to.




JANUARY MEETING, 1840


I I3


Maj. Kearsley presented the report of the Board of
Visitors of the Tecumseh Branch which was accepted.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, Sirrell C. LeBaron was
appointed a member of the Board of Visitors of the Tecumseh Branch in the place of Samuel Satterthwa'ite, who declines his appointment.
Justice Whipple presented the      following  proposition
from G. O. Whittemore and others.
Pontiac, Dec. 28th, 1839.
We the undersigned, proprietors of the lot and building on Saginaw Street, Pontiac, now occupied by the Oakland Branch of the
University of Michigan, hereby agree to give and transfer the said
lot and building to the Regents of the University of Michigan for
the use of the said Oakland Branch, provided the same is located
and established in this place.
(Signed) G. 0. Whittemore, J. Hodges, D. Chamberlin, D. Paddock, H. N. Howard, George Hill, Amasa Andrews, O. D. Richardson, L. W. Allen, J. P. LeRoy, Amasa Bagley.
On motion of Judge Whipple,
Resolved, That the foregoing proposition submitted to the Board
by sundry citizens of Pontiac be accepted, upon the execution, by
the owners of the lot and building therein referred, of a deed to be
executed and delivered to the Board, and upon the further condition that the building be put in complete order and repair, and the
grounds properly fenced, and all necessary out-buildings erected,
to the satisfaction of the Committee on Branches, within such period as the said Committee may direct, not exceeding six months.
Dr. Pitcher and Rev. Mr. Duffield presented sundry
communications in reference to Professorships, which on
motion were referred to the Committee on Appointments.
Rev. Mr. Duffield from; the Committee to revise the
Organic Law of the University and propose such changes
as may be desirable, to be presented for the action of the
Legislature, made the following report, which, on motion
of Judge Wilkins was accepted.
REPORT.
The Committee appointed to revise the Organic Law of the
University and to report such changes as may be desirable to be
presented for the action of the Legislature, beg leave respectfully
to submit the following:
Two things appear to be essential, in order 'to the vigorous and
successful prosecution of the great and responsible duties devolved
on the Board of Regents.
I. The first is the proper restriction of their responsibilities
-to the Board themselves. At present the Regents, as by law pro



I4


JANU4ARY M/[EETING, I84o


vided, have not the sole responsibility in the location of the Branches. The Superintendent of Public Instruction shares it in common
with them. Nay more, has in effect the power by his veto of staying their procedures. This officer is not an ex officio member of
the Board, is not present at their meetings to hear and know what
transpires in their discussions, and therefore cannot be so capable
as the Board themselves of judging as to the propriety of establishing a Branch in this or the other County. It does not seem reasonable that to him should be given the power to interpose his veto.
and by withholding his concurrence embarrass and prostrate measures which the Board may deem advisable and necessary for the
interests of education. Moreover, the Board are directed by Law to
make report of their disbursements as well as their general doings
to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, to be embodied by him
in his annual report of his proceedings to the Legislature. Your
Committee think both these regulations exceptionable and recommend such amendments of Title I2th, Chapter Ist, Part Ist, of the
Revised Statutes of this State, as will throw the entire responsibility on the Board and require them to make a full report of their
proceedings to the Governor, to be laid by him before the Legislature, instead of that responsibility being divided, and the Board being made, as they now are, a mere appendage of another functionary.
2. The second matter of importance is, the full trust and responsibility of the funds belonging to the University. The present
law withholds from the Board all agency whatever in the management and consolidation of the funds appropriated to the use of the
University, and by making them the mere annual recipients of uncertain payments depending in a great measure on contingencies
connected with the duties of the Superintendent of Public Instruction, leaves them unable to adapt their measures to their means, or
to project and execute such plans as the interest of education and
the resources of the University may call for. The Board have no
power to sell any of the Lands of the University, or to invest any
moneys arising from the sale of lands by the Superintendent, or to
consolidate their Capital and efficiently regulate their own fiscal interests and concerns. The right and authority to sell the Lands of
the University and to invest the proceeds is vested solely in the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, and all the agency required
of the Board, in reference to the same, except in specific disbursements of moneys fromn, time to time paid over to them, is to submit
an estimate of expenses for the ensuing year, to another body, a
Board of Visitors consisting of five persons to be appointed annually by the Superintendent of Public Instruction and who are to
report to the Superintendent, see Title I Ith, Chap. 2d, sections I5
and I6. And your Committee think that the duties of the Superintendent in relation to the Primary School lands and funds are sufficiently onerous without devolving on him those in relation to the
University lands, which the Board are competent to meet. They
therefore recommend that such amendments of the Law be made
as will vest in the Board the powers of disposing the University
lands now conferred on the Superintendent, and hold the Board
directly responsible to the Legislature for the investment of the
moneys arising from the sale of the same. They further recommend
that monyes arising from the sale of the University lands be paid
into the hands of the Treasurer of the State to be invested and held




SECOND JANlUARY MEETING, 1840


I     5


in trust by the State for the use and benefit of the University, and
that so much of the Law as requires loans of such moneys to be
made to the different Counties be rescinded.
Your Committee further recommend that Dr. Houghton be
authorized to place a part, if not the whole, of the specimens in
geology, mineralogy, and zoology, now in his hands, belonging to the
State, in the University buildings under the charge and control of
the Board of Regents.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth the report was
taken up and on his motion the first proposition of the committee was adopted.
On motion of Judge Wilkins, the second proposition of
the Committee was adopted.
On motion of Chief Justice Fletcher, the third proposition was adopted.
Chief Justice'Fletcher moved that a Committee of three
he appointed to draft a Bill embodying the provisions recommended in said Report, and report the same to the next
imeeting of the Board, which motion was decided in the
affirmative.
The chair announced Chief Justice Fletcher, M\aj. Kearsley, and Judge W'ilkins as said Committee.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to
report to the Regents at their next meeting a plan for reducing the
expenses of the Branches.
On motion of Mr. Trowbridge the Board adjourned
until Tuesday evening next, the: Il.th inst.
SECOND JANUARY MEETING, 1840.
Tuesday, January 14th, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
PIrcseut: Chief Justice Fletcher, Justices Morell, Ransom, and Whipple, Judge Wilkins, MLaj. Kearsley, Rev. Geo.
Duffield, C. C. TroTwbridge, Esq., and Dr. Pitcher.
On motion of Dr: Pitcher, Justice Morell was called
to the chair.
Maj. Kearsley from the Committee on Branches made
the following report, which, on motion was accepted, and
the report was laid upon the table.
The Committee on Branches, to whom was referred the Resolution of the Board of Regents, "To inquire what reductions may be
made in the existing expenditures upon the Branches of the
University,"




II6   SECOAND JANU,4JRY MEETING, 1840


REPORT,
That, after a careful examination of the entire subject, taking
into view the financial condition of the University, present and prospective, your Committee are of opinion that the direct expenditure
from the Treasury of the University proper, toward the support
of Branches, is greatly beyond that 'which its resources will warrant. Your Committee are fully aware of the importance as well
as the popular favor of the Branches; that upon these the prosperity
of the University must mainly depend, and without which it is ever
doubtful whether the University can be extensively beneficial. Your
Committee are therefore not insensible to the consequences that may
result from the reduction of appropriations, which necessity compels
them to submit. The annual report of the Superintendent o'f Public
Instruction exhibits the sum of $6,402.91 (as the Superintendent
informs your Committee) of interest paid for 1839 on University
lands already sold to which he thinks there may be yet added
$I,ooo, making $7,400 or thereabouts, to be placed at the disposal
of the Regents for the year 1840. The Board of Regents, exclusive
of tuition fees, have expended in 1839, upon the Branches the sum
of $I0,200, being an excess beyond the receipts of interest for
I838 of $766.87. And to limit the entire expenditure of the Regents
to their annual receipts, the payment of salary to one Professor
and prospective payments to others should not be overlooked.
The salary of one Professor is now paid and has been for more
than a year past. One other Professor has been appointed, and
should the Regents determine to open the University for the
reception of students, at least two additional Professors will be
required.  To sustain four Professors would therefore require
an appropriation of $6,ooo, which added to the excess of expenditure beyond the receipts will be $6,766 for the year I839.
This important question therefore presents itself ''for the
decision of the Regents, in the organization of the University
proper and the Branches,-is precedence to be given to either, or do
the Constitution and Laws of the State contemplate their organization parti passu?  Your Committee are of opinion if both, cannot
be sustained, the Branches must be suspended. Yet there can be
little doubt that the Branches would.at present best promote the
interests of the State and advance the general cause of Literature
for which the original donation of lands was intended. The suggestion is therefore here submitted,-Would a petition to the Legislature not be expedient and proper asking a grant of part of the
salt-spring or other lands belonging!to 'the State, to constitute a
distinct fundl for the exclusive benefit of the Branches?
Neither the condition of the University, being as yet unorganized, nor the proficiency of a large majority of the students
now in the Branches, seems to demand our immediate decision of
the question,-Shall! the Branches be discontinued? Most of the
classes in the Branches will not be prepared to enter the University
sooner than the close of the present year. Nor should the University be organized by the appointment of the additional Professors
necessary. Would the number of students prepared to enter it
justify tllhe measure? Your Committee, therefore, recommend the
continuance of the Branches for the present year, as now organized.
A retrenchment in 'the expenditures upon them is however ind'ispensably necessary, and this without delay.  There are three
methods by which this may be done.




SLEC'OND JAN UARY JlEEETING, 1840


1r7


First. To determine the number of Branches that shall be
continued and to allow to each a certain and uniform appropriation.
Second. To limit 'the number of Branches to the resources of
the Regents and appropriate salaries to the Instructors.
Third. To reduce the appropriation from the Treasury, appropriate the entire fees of tuition in payment of salaries, and
thus make the emoluments of the teachers depend in some degree
upon the number of students,-the sums paid from the Treasury
to be graduated according to the necessity for a Branch and the
public advantage likely to result therefrom.
Your Committee recommend the last mentioned as most expedient and practical; and with this view, the following graduation
or schedule is submitted.


Amount      Amt. appro-     Amt. of
appropriated   priated to  Tuition as per
Branches      approriated   Professor of average of the Total
Principal   Language as    estimate for
Assistant       1840
Detroit............$700          $600          $800     $2,000
Monroe..............60o         500          1,365     2,465
Pontiac.............700....           255       955
Niles....700....           315      1,015
White Pigeon........4 00          500          1,5       1,950
Tecumseh............600oo         500           300       goo
Total..........$3,700      $I,6oo         $4,085    $9,385
From  the foregoing exhibit it will appear that six Branches
may be liberally aided by a direct appropriation of $5,300 from the
University fund, leaving a balance, however, of only $2,700 for all
other purposes as salaries, contingencies, etc., of the University
proper.
A more equitable apportionment of the $5,300 may possibly be
made, but it is the opinion of your Committee that the extent of
education afforded by six Branches ought not to cost beyond $9,385
or $42 per year tuition for each student. This is certainly a high
rate for tuition and the direct appropriation from the Treasury
of the University, while it decreases the tuition to be paid by
individual students, will secure a fair compensation!to Instructors.
It is also conceived that the proposed appropriations will fully
sustain that public approbation heretofore extended to the Branches
and also present any relaxation of the regulation heretofore adopted
and insisted upon as to the qualifications of Instructors and attainments of students in the several Branches.
It will be perceived, notwithstanding these proposed retrenchments that no provision is made for the discharge of the interest
of $6,000 per annum upon the $Ioo,oo loan. To meet this for I840,
it will be seen, by reference to the report of the Finance Committee, that there will probably be received from  the Bank ot
Michigan as interest $3,500. And it is possible the balance $2,500
may be paid, as interest, by purchasers of the University lands,
who have not heretofore paid their interest due. But in any event,
it is deemed advisable that the interest on the loan should be




I8   SECOND JANUARY MEETING, i84o


paid, in part, even from  the principal, rather than attempt, at
present, a further reduction towards the support of the Branches.
In conclusion, the Committee recommend that ithe foregoing
plan, if adopted for the support and continuance of the Branches,
take effect from and after the expiration of the present term, and
that the Committee on Branches be instructed to give immediate
notice thereof to the several Principals of Branches and to be submitted by them to their respective Board of Visitors.
Respectfully submitted,
Detroit, Jan. I4th, 1840.  J. K;ARSLEY, Com. on Branches.
Chief Justice Fletcher, from   the Select Committee to
whom was referred the report of the 'Committee to revise
the Organic Law of the University" and to propose such
changes as may be desirable etc., and who were instructed to
report a Bill embodying- the provisions recommended in
said report, reported a Bill entitled,. "A Bill relative to the
University of Michigan and for other purposes."
NMr. Duffield moved that the Bill entitled as above be
accepted as the sense of the Board, and that the Committee
who reported the same be instructed to present the same to
the Legislature of this State, which was decided in the
affirmative.
On motion of Justice Whipple,
Resolved, That a copy of the report of the Committee to revise
the Organic Law etc., adopted at the last meeting be submitted to
the Governor of this State by the Select Committee above referred
to, with a request that he submit the same to the Legislature of
this State.
On motion of Justice Ransom,
Resolved, That a Principal be appointed to take charge of the
Branch of the University at Kalamazoo and that instruction therein
be resumed without unnecessary delay, Provided, however, that no
more than Four hundred dollars per alnnum in addition to the tuition
fees received thereat shall be appropriated by this Board for the
support of said Branch.
Justice Ransom    submitted  the  following  Resolution,
which on his motion was laid on the table.
Resolved, That from  and  after the........ day  of..............
next, no more than the sum of................... hundred dollars
per aonum shall be drawn from the University Fund and by this
Board appropriated to the support of any one of the Branches of
the University.
On motion, the Board adjourned until Friday evening,
Jan. I7thl, I840.




FEBRUARY iMEETING, 1840


II9


THIRD JANUARY MEETING, I840.
Friday, Jan. I7th, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Woodbridge, Lieutenant-Governor,
Gordon, Chief Justice Fletcher, Justices Morell, Ransom,
and Whipple, Dr. Pitcher, Maj. Kearsley, C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., and Rev. Mr. Duffield.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
A communication was received from the Treasurer of
the Board informing them that he had received a warrant
from the Auditor General and the State Treasurer.for $6,402.9I, interest on sales of University Lands for I839, and
asking the Board to direct him where and to whose credit
the sum shall be deposited.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, said communication was
laid upon the table.
On motion of Maj. Klearsley, the Board took up for
consideration the resolution laid upon the table by Justice
Ransom at the last meeting, and,
On motion of Justice W\hipple, said resolution and the
report of the Committee on Branches, laid upon the table
at the last meeting, were recommitted to the Committee on
Branches and Messrs. Duffield and Trowbridge.
On motion of Maj. Kearslev, the Board adjourned until
Tuesday the 3Ist instant.
Tuesday, Jan. 3Ist, 1840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Mlaj.
Kearslev, Dr. Pitcher, and C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned until Friday evening, the 7th Feb. next.
FEBRUARY MEETING, 1840.
Friday, February 7th, I840.
'lThe Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor Gordon, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Chancellor Farnsworth, Maj. Kearsley, Dr. Pitcher, C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., Rev. George Duffield.




120


FEBRUA4RY MlEETI;NG, 1840


On motion of Chief Justice Fletcher, Lieutenant-Gov
ernor Gordon was called to the Chair.
The Proceedings of the last two meetings were read and
approved.
MAr. Duffield from the Committee on Branches, to whom
was recommitted the report of the Committee on Branches
and the resolution of Tustice Ransom, submitted on the
T4th ult. relative to, the reduction of the expenses of the
same, made the following report which on motion of Chief
Justice Fletcher was accepted.
REPORT.
The Committee to whom was referred the report of the Committee on Branches relative to the reduction of the expenses of the
same, beg leave respectfully to represent,
That they have given the subject all due consideration and are
not prepared to recommend any alteration in the present system to
be provided for by the action of this Board. The estimated deficit
in the receipts for the present year, should not an increase in the
number of pupils and the avails from ithis source be sufficient to
meet it, will doubtless subject the Board to embarrassment and most
probably prevent them from meeting punctually their engagements
with the Principals and their assistants, or render it necessary to.
resort to a temporary loan. There is reason to hope that this deficiency in the annual receipts will not be permanent or lasting, but
be more than met by the payments of the last two years, yet uncollected, whenever the general causes which have produced such universal derangement in the monetary affairs of the country, shall
have ceased to operate. At all events your Committee do not think
that the prospect of increased embarrassment or absolute failure in
the collection of the revenue is at present sufficiently dark and
gloomy to warrant the Board under present circumstances and
without further effort, to change the whole system so recently adopted and just beginning to be brought into successful operation. The
necessity is not yet imperious or at least so imperious but that some
expedients can be devised to meet the present exigencies. Whatever may be the inconvenience and embarrassments to which the
Board shall be subjected, they do not however appear to your Committee by any means as great as those to which the abandonment of
the present system  will subject tthem. The plans for effecting a
change are the following:
Ist. The equal distribution of a per annum   allowance of
$500.00 to each Branch, leaving the Principal to the co-operation of
the Visitors to look to the fees for tuition and to the increase of
the number of his pupils for the balance of his salary or the means
necessary for his support.
2nd. The reduction of the number of the Branches, and
3rd. The adjustment of the appropriations of the Board so as
to meet and supply the full amount of salary after deducting the
receipt for tuition as at present estimated and reported.




FEBRUA4RYI MEETINA1G, 840o


I 2 I


\/Vith respect to the first plan, although it has been warmly advocated in the Board, yet the Committee cannot but think it would
prove utterly uneffectual, and not only subversive of the presentsystem, but of any other which would be of real utility, or give the
Board any control in directing the interests of education. For in
the very first place it would be equivalent to the dismission of the
present Principals and assistants, some of whom have been invited
here by the Board and have come with their families in the faith
of the promises and engagements made and entered into with them
which they have considered both honorable and sacred. In the next
place there could not be teachers procured competent to conduct the
system as at present in operation. This is of an elevated grade, requiring the best scholars and men of reputation. For ithe annuity
of four or five hundred dollars with the contingency of a large or
small number of scholars, no man of talents and attainments in science and literature would be willing to come to a new State and:
submit to the toils and privations incident to the hazardous enterprise of establishing an academy among a sparse population and
where neither the wealth of the inhabitants nor the condition of
the State has as yet furnished inducements at all commensurate
with those presented in older States and more populous regions.
Young men prosecuting professional studies, and adventurers having other ends in view than the advancement of the interests of
education, might be procured; but the schools would be subject to
fluctuations and embarrassments without end, were they necessitated to look to this class of persons for -their teachers. Besides
the actual experiment has been made by the Committee on Branches,
and they found that it was impossible on any other system than the
one adopted by them and in operation at present, to procure responsible and qualified' instructors with whom to confide the interests of education in this young and: rising commonwealth.
To abandon the present system now and to resort to that which
at first was proved inefficient, would not only be in opposition to the
dictates of that wisdom which experience has dictated, but would
throw additional obstacles in the -way and 'such as would not in the'
first instance have been encountered, but which have now become
serious. It is not at all improbable but that in some places respectable members of society may think the present system expensive,
and comparing the salaries and expenses at different Branches, may
think that the plan of equalizing the distribution of aid is preferable and that teachers would readily be procured; but should the
experiment be made and the high character of the schools be maintained, it would be found that such anticipations are much moreeasily expressed:than realized. The Committee feel that it is due
to the people whose interests they seek to promote to adopt and
pursue the system which is most efficient and valuable instead of
being embarrassed by the views which are apt to be entertained on
a partial examination, but were to be abandoned by every reflecting
and observant man when placed in circumstances to see the experiment fairly made.
What is said in relation to the opinions and objections of those'
who have purchased the lands of the University, and who may now
find it 'difficult to meet their installments, your Committee think is
altogether irrelevant. They certainly are entitled to all proper
leniency and sympathy from this Board', if needed, but they can on
no pretext whatever be accounted the donors of the University,.




I22


2FEBRUAR Y MEEETING, 1840


whose opinions and judgments as to the disposition of the funds
should have authority with the Board. They have received or wil!
receive a full equivalent in the lands conveyed to 'them for all tilhe
money they pay, and however their opinions as citizens may deserve respect, they are entitled to none whatever on the ground ot
their contributing to the funds of the University. They are debtors and not patrons, and to be induced to make any change in our
system because of menaces or objections from this source would be
unfaithful, your Committee think, to the trust reposed in this Board.
As to the second plan, that of reducing the number of Branches,
your Committee think that serious objections may be urged against
it however preferable it appears to the other. It is possible that
some of the Branches where the pupils are few, just beginning and
very young, might safely be suspended; but there would be danger
of exciting invidious feelings and producing those sectional jealousies which should ever be avoided, were an election to be made
as to what Branches should be suspended. Nor would this probably
be done without some pecuniary considerations to satisfy the Principals and assistants of such Branches. At all events your Committee think that until some correspondence or negotiations can be
had with such Branches and: further light be thrown upon the subject of its practicability, the Board cannot be prepared to make a
reduction of the number of existing Branches.
The third plan touches not the amount of salaries as at present
rated, but proposes a very serious change in reference to the foundation on which the Branches are placed. It proposes to give the
Principal the amount of tuition arising from the school and to make
up after deducting the amount of tuition estimated at the present
number of students, the deficit of salary by appropriation from the
Board. This plan does not reduce the expenses of the Board, nor
does it alter the salaries, and: therefore gains nothing in reality on
this ground. The Principal, for example, of the Detroit Branch
will receive $550.00, the amount of tuition, and $950.00, the appropriation of the Board, making up the sum of $I,500.00. The Committee on Branches are abundantly competent to pay the salaries
in this way, and your Committee think they should be so paid as
to prevent!the withdrawal of the tuition money for any local purposes such as repairing the school-room, or any other object which
ought to'be met by the people of the place. They may constitute
the Principal their collector and in settling his account of salary
make him account for the full' amount of tuition money; none could
object to such a procedure. The salary in such a case would be regarded as certain, the principle on which it rested by the pledge of
the Board would be untouched, and this would be a mere arrangement as to the mode of its payment. But suppose that the Board
should say to the Principals, "Take the tuition money and make
what you can out of the school;' we will appropriate only so much,
this year," at once the salary becomes uncertain and fluctuating.
The receipts may be more or less than $1,500.00. If more, what
pledge has the Principal that the appropriation will not be reduced
next year, just in proportion to the increased tuition, thus making
the teacher look mainly to the number of his scholars for his salary
and not 'to the pledge of the Board. This would be furnishing
temptations to the Principals to adapt the style and standard of instruction and discipline of the school to the whims and caprices of
parents rather than to throw the Aegis of the Board's protection




FEBRUARY MEETING, I1840


123


around him while he attempts to maintain the system and standard
as established by the Board. Thus their dependence on the Board
and consequently their obligations to the Board would be embarrassed. Besides it would destroy all confidence in the pledges of the
Board. Should the Principals be told today, "You may have the
tuition for yourself and the Board will appropriate a given sum to
your support," they may expect similar treatment next year and
never be able to tell whether the Board may not reduce their appropriations in either case, whether they have increased the number of
students or not. Adventurers and those desirous of making money
might consent to such uncertainties, but men devoted to the business of education as their profession for life and preferring a salary
because certain, to such opportunities Ito make money, would refuse
to be dependent on such contingencies and would decline to enter
into the strifes and measures which are often resorted to to swell
the number of pupils in a money-making academy. Besides this
system would be subject to greater fluctuations than the first, and
not only would the same difficulties be felt in the way of procuring
and retaining teachers, but others and peculiar to itself would greatly be experienced. A change of this sort would be regarded and
pronounced as a violation of pledges already given, and the confidence abroad might be so far impaired in the stability of the plans
of the Board, and the worth of their pledges, as to prevent men
of science and reputation from attending to the future invitations
of the Board.
In view, therefore, of all the difficulties around this subject,
your Committee judge that it is inexpedient to make any changes in
the system of Branches as at present established and recommend
that the subject be dismissed from their further consideration.
On motion of Chief Justice Fletcher, the above report
was adopted.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication from the Board
of Visitors of the White Pigeon Branch, relative to payment
of moneys of Rev. Julius Steele, and, on motion of Maj.
Kearsley, it was
Resolved, That so much of the communication of the Board of
Visitors of the Branch of the University at White Pigeon of January 25th, 1840, as refers to the salary of Rev. Julius Steele, be referred to the Committee on Branches with instructions to inform
the Board of Visitors that the claim cannot be admitted.
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to
limit the appropriation to the White Pigeon Branch to $I,200 to the
Principal and $600 to M. W. Gray, the Tutor, and that the tuition
money form a part of said expenditures as in all other Branches.
Dr. Pitcher also presented a communication of inhabitants of White Pigeon, relative to the appointment of a
BIoard of Visitors for the White Pigeon Branch    also, a remonstrance, which, on motion, was laid on the table.
On motion of MTr. Trowbrildge the communication of the
Treasurer of the University, laid on the table on the 17th




I24


L24ARCH MEETING, 1840


ultinio. was taken up and on motion of Maj. Kearsley it was
ordered that the Treasurer of the BIoard be directed to deposit the sum of $6,402.9I, when received by him from the
State Treasurer on the warrant of the Auditor General, interest on the University fund for 1839, in the Bank of Michigan on general deposit to his credit.
On motion, the Board adjourned until Saturday the I5th
instant.
SECOND FEBRUARY MEETING, 1840.
Saturday, February i5th, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor Gordon, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, and C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned to meet
on Friday evening, the 6th March next.
MARCH MEETING, 1840.
Friday, March 6th, 1840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Chancellor Farnsworth, Chief Justice Fletcher, Jurge Wilkins, C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., Dr. Pitcher, and
Maj. Kearsley.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, Justice Morell was called
to the Chair.
The Proceedings of the last two meetings were read and
approved.
Dr. Pitcher presented sundry communications in regard
to the Board of Visitors of the White Pigeon Branch, and
on motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, they were referred to
the Committee on, Branches.
Dr. Pitcher presented a report from Mr. Harvie, of the
Tecumseh Branch, which was read; and on motion of Judge
Wilkins, it was referred to the Committee on Branches.
Chief Justice Fletcher submitted the following report
of the Building Committee, which was read; and on motion.
of Judge Wilkins, the report was accepted.




MARCH MEETING, 1840


123


REPORT.
The undersigned, in behalf of the Building Committee, respectfully submits to the Board of Regents of the University, the following report of their proceedings.
By an order of the Board of Regents of the IIth February,
I839, all further proceedings to erect the University Buildings ac-,cording to the plan adopted in September, I838, were suspended and
the building Committee by that resolution were directed to give
notice to Alexander J. Davis and Isaac Thompson, that the Board
of Regents would put an end to the contract made with them on
the I8th September, I838, as Architect and Superintendent; and the
Committee were further directed by that resolution to make a new
contract with Mr. Thompson to superintend the building of four
houses on the University ground at Ann Arbor, and to proceed to
erect those houses according to plans adopted by the Regents. In
pursuance to these directions, the Committee notified Mr. Thompson
that the contract made with him and Mr. Davis would be determined in pursuance of the provisions of the contract made with
them, and Mr. Thompson authorized by Mr. Davis, and acting for
Mr. Davis, as well as for himself, on receiving a certificate from
the Committee for the amount due them on that contract, did on the
14th February, I839, discharge the said contract and endorsed his
receipt thereon for the sum of six hundred and sixteen dollars, being in full for all claims under that contract. On the same day
-the Committee also made a new contract with Mr. Thompson to
superintend the building of the four houses above mentioned, the
compensation to be at the rate of $I,ooo per annum; and by the.advice of Mr. Thompson, the Committee on the I4th February last,
entered into a contract with Haspier Lum, to erect and finish those
houses by which they agreed to give him the sum of $7,450 for each
of two of the houses to be completely finished, and the sum of.$6,ooo for each of the other two houses to be finished except as to
certain parts of the interior, amounting in all to the sum of $27,500,
the houses to be finished by the first of July, I840; Mr. Lum giving a
bond with ample security in the sum of $5,ooo, as security for any
advances made to him under the contract.
On the 4th of March last, the Commi'ttee by the advic'e of the
Superintendent, and being satisfied that it would be an improvement upon the buildings as well in res'pect to economy as durability,
made a further contract with Mr. Lum by which- he was to finish
-the exterior of the buildings in rough cast, or stucco, for which
he was to receive the further sum of $250 for each house. And' on,the 22d June, the Committee made a further contract with Mr.
Lum, by which he was to construct.a terrace on each of the houses,
for the further sum of $I2.50 for each house. On 'the 13th July the
Board of Regents passed an order directing the Committee to contract with Mr. Lum to finish the interior of all the houses upon the
terms and in the manner specified in the original contract, and in
pursuance thereof, the Committee entered into such. contract. The
result of these contracts is that Mr. Lum 'is to be paid the sum of,$7,7I2.50 for each house, amounting in all to $30,850..
Upon these contracts with Mr. Lum, the Committee have given,certificates for payments to be made to him amounting in the whole
-to $25,000 and by the terms of the original contracts, Mr. Lum was,to take 200,000 bricks which had previously been purchased by the




I26


MilARCH M/EETING, 1840


Committee, at $I,200, the first cost, so that the whole amount ac 
tually paid him is $26,200.
On the I3'th July last, the Board of Regents put an end to the
contracts with Mr. Thompson as Superintendent, of which the Committee gave him notice, and afterwards gave him a certificate for
six months' pay, under the contract for $500, up to the I4th August.
The Committee have caused the University grounds to be cleared of stumps for which they have paid $346.81, and have caused a
well to be dug and stoned and bricked at an expense of $331.70.
The Committee at different times remitted small sums to pay for
work done in digging the well, and' clearing the ground amounting
in all to $500, out of which they have paid $346.81 for clearing the
ground of stumps, and $II9 towards the well, and $2.00 for recording deeds given by the Land Company to the Regents, leaving in
the hands of the undersigned the sum of $31.74 unexpended.
The Committee have also under the direction of the Board entered 'into another contract with Michaell Horrigan who dug the.
well, to dig another well upon the same terms as for digging the
first, which is now in progress of being completed. The first well
is seventy-six feet in depth, and has five and a half feet water. The
second well will probably be about the same depth and cost nearly
the same, if it shall be finished in the same manner.
The Committee by direction of the Board of Regents obtained
from Mr. Thompson certain plans and estimates of cost of fences
and out-buildings which have heretofore been exhibited to the Board
of Regents.
Nearly all' those matters were submitted verbally to the Board
of Regents at their quarterly meeting at Ann Arbor in July last,
by Judge Mundy and the undersigned, but for want of time, they
were not submitted in writing and since that time Mr. Mundy and
Mr. Adam, being a majority of the Committee during the time most
of the transactions occurred, have ceased to be Regents.
All of which is respectfully submitted,
Detroit, Feby. 15th, I840.      Wm. A. FLETcCHER, Corn.
The above report was prepared to be submitted to the Regenrs
at an adjourned meeting to have been held on the i5'th February,
but at which there was not a quorum. Since that time, Mr. Horrigan, the person employed to dig the second well, has succeeded in
obtaining water at the depth of seventy or seventy-five feet, and the
undersigned has paid on account, the sum of thirty-two dollars.
March 6th, I840.                     WM. A. FLETCHER.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the above report was referred to the Auditing Committee, by the followingo vote,
Yeas: Messrs. Farnsworth, Fletcher, Morell and Kearsley, 4.
Nays: Messrs. Wilkins, Trowbridge, and Pitcher, 3.
On motion of Mr. Trowbridge,
Resolvcd, That the Building Committee be instructed to contract for building fences around the University lands at Ann Arbor,
the fence in front of the buildings to be made after plan No. 2,
and that around the lands to be made after plan No. I, furnished
by -Mr. Thompson.
And, That the same Committee contract for the erection of a
wood-house. to each of the buildings on the University lands at




,41-RIL MlEETING, 840o


127


Ann Arbor, agreeably to the plan furnished by Mr. Thompson. And
that the same Committee be authorized to contract for a cistern to
each of the houses, and to dig another well when they deem it
expedient.
On motion of Judge Wilkins,
Resolved, That two hundred dollars be appropriated to be expended under the direction of Dr. Houghton in planting trees upon
the University grounds.
Resolved, That the Building Committee be authorized to make
such partitions in the basement story of the house!to be occupied
by Dr. Houghton as may be necessary for his convenience.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, the Board adjourned to meet
at the next quarterly meeting at Ann Arbor.
APRIL    MEETING, 1840.
Ann Arbor, Tuesday, April 7th, 1840.
The Board met pursuant to, adjournment.
Present: Chief Justice Fletcher, Justice Morell, Chancellor Farnsworth, Rev. Geo. D!uffield, Maj. Kearsley, Dr.
Pitcher, C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., Dr. Michael A. Patterson.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, Justice Morell was called
to the Chair.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Sirrel C. LeBaron was appointed one of the Board of Visitors of the Tecumseh
Branch to fill a vacancy.
On motion, of M/r. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be directed to settle
with Mr. Thompson,and pay to him what balance may be due to
him, if any, by virtue of his compact with the Board.
Dr. Pitcher presented the reports of the Principals of
the Pontiac Branch and the White Pigeon Branch of the
University, which were, on motion, referred to the Committee on Branches.
A communication was read from Francis Lieber,I respecting the course of studies to be pursued in the University.
On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Committee through.whom it was addressed
to the Regents, be requested to express to Dr. Lieber their gratification in view of the interest he manifests in relation to the University as well as of the lucid and salutary opinions unfolded on the
subject of the character and course of a collegiate education.
1 Francis Lieber (1800-I872), the distinguished publicist.




128


APRIL MJEETING, I1840


On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to
employ an assistant teacher in the Tecumseh Branch, provided the
number of students in said Branch exceed thirty in number.
On motion of C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.,
Resolved, That the Treasurers of the several Branches be required hereafter to report, from time to time, to the Committee on
Branches, for the use of the Regents, the state of their several
Treasuries, and that said reports be made ten days before the expiration of each term.
On motion of Judge Fletcher,
Resolved, That the Building Committee procure and report to
this Board tomorrow, a plan for a principal building to be erected
on the site of the University at Ann Arbor, together with the estimates of the expenses for erecting and completing the same.
On motion the Board adjourned until 9 o'clock A. M.
tomorrow.
Ann Arbor, April 8th, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present:   Chief Justice Fletcher, Justice Morell, Maj.
Kearsley,' Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher, Dr. Patterson, and C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
Justice Fletcher, from the Building Committee, submitted the following, with plan accompanying the same, which
-was accepted.
The Building Committee in pursuance of the Resolution of yesterday requiring them to procure and report a plan for a building
for the use of the University, together with an estimate of the expenses, hereby report, and submit a plan of such building, with an
estimate of the expense of the same.
Ann Arbor, April 8th, I840.
The accompanying plan is IIO feet long, 42 feet wide, and four
stories high, containing 32 studies, 32 wood-rooms, 64 bed-rooms,
and 64 closets, which I have made an estimate for the erection and
completion, and find that it will not cost more than sixteen thousand
dollars.                                     HASPIER LUMI.
Judge Fletcher submitted the following resolution,
Resolved, That the plan for a building for the use of the University, reported this day by the Building Committee, be adopted.
Maj. Kearsley submitted the following,
Resolved, That the Resolution relating to a building for the use
of the University with the plan accompanying the same, be laid upon
the table, which was negatived by Yeas and Nays as follows:
Yeas: Mr. Kearsley.
Nays: Messrs. Fletcher, Farnsworth, Morell, Pitcher, Patterson, and Trowbridge.




APRIL MLEETING, 1840


I29


The question recurring upon the above resolution offered by
Judge Fletcher, the resolution was adopted by Yeas and Nays -as
follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Fletcher, Farnsworth, Morell, Pitcher, Patterson, and Trowbridge.
Nays: Mr. Kearsley.
Judge Fletcher submitted the following resolution, which, on
motion, was adopted by Yeas and Nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Fletcher, Farnsworth, Morell, Pitcher, Patterson, and Trowbridge.
Nays: Mr. Kearsley.
Resolved, That the Building Committee proceed with all convenient speed to erect and finish a building upon the site of the
University at Ann Arbor, according to the plan adopted this day
by!the Board of Regents, with authority to make such alterations in
the arrangement of the rooms as they may deem expedient. And
that the said Committee be authorized to employ a superintendent
to superintend the erection and finishing said building and that the
said Committee, with the assistance of said superintendent, be authorized to contract for the purchase of materials, and to procure
the labor necessary to the construction and completion of such
building in such manner as they may deem most for the interest of
the University, Provided, That the cost of the said building shall
not exceed the sum of sixteen thousand dollars.
On motion of Judge Fletcher,
Resolved, That the Committee for the appointment of Professors, Tutors, and' other officers, be authorized to open a correspondence with Dr. Asa Gray for the purpose of ascertaining from him
whether he will not assent to a suspension of his salary for the
present year and that the Committee report to this Board' the result
of such correspondence with all convenient speed.
The Chair presented a communication from E. Mundy,
Esq., relative to certain claims of Alexander J. Davis and
Ammi B. Young,. and, on motion of Judge Fletcher,
Resolved, That the claim of Ammi B. Young, together with the
correspondence and papers relating thereto, be referred to the Committee on Finance, and that the said Committee be authorized to
settle the same with Mr. Young should they find anything due him.
Maj. Kearsley tendered his resignation as one of the
Building Committee, which:, on motion of Mr. Trowbridge,
was not accepted.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth,
Resolved, That Maj. Kearsley be appointed a Committee to attend to the interests of the University before the Commissioners
appointed under an Act of the Legislature to iadjust the claims of
the settlers on the University lands, and that he be authorized to
employ such assistance as he may deem necessary and expedient.
On motion the Board adjourned until the first Tuesday
of May next, at Detroit.




O30
-.0


-MAY MIEETING, 1840


MIAY MEETING, 1840.
Detroit, May 5th, 1840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Chancellor Farnsworth, Judge Wilkins, Maj.
Kearsley, Dr. Pitcher, Rev. Geo. Duffield, C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., and Wm. Draper.
On motion C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., was appointed President pro tern pore.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
Chancellor Farnsworth, from the Committee on Professorships, Tutors, etc., who were instructed to open a correspondence with Dr. Asa Gray, respecting the suspension of
his salary for the nex year, reported that they had performed the duty assigned them, and had received a letter
from Mr. Gray (on file) agreeing to the suspension of his
salary for the next year. Report on motion accepted.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, submitted the report of the Board of Visitors of Detroit, Monroe,
Niles, and Oakland Branches, which were severally ordered
to be filed, and on motion the report of the Visitolrs of the
Detroit Branch was ordered to. be published under the superintendence of the Secretary.
Dr. Pitcher, from the same Committee, also submitted
sundry reports of sundry Treasurers of Branches, which
were ordered filed.
The communication from the Visitors of Monroe Branch
was referred, on motion, to the Committee on Branches.
A communication was received from D. Wadsworth respecting the University Lands in Ohio.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That a sum of money sufficient to defray the expenses for taxes and surveying the lands belonging to the University of Michigan, in Ohio, be and the same is hereby appropriated
to be expended under the direction of the Committee on Finance.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, Tha!t the Building Committee be authorized to dispense with the -planing and painting of so much of the fence around
the University grounds at Ann Arbor as they may deem expedient.
On motion, the Board adjourned until Tuesday evening,
the 9Ith instant.




JULY MiEETING, I840


I31


SECOND MAY MEETING, I840.
Detroit, May I9th, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Justice Morell and Wm. Draper, Esq.
A quorum not appearing present, the Board adjourned
until Wednesday, the ioth June next.
Detroit, June Ioth, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Justice Morell and Dr. Pitcher.
A quorum not appearing' present, the Board adjourned
until Tuesday, the seventh July next, to meet at Ann Arbor.
JULY MEETING, 1840.
Ann Arbor, July 7th, 1840.
The Board met pursuant to, adjournment.
Present: Governor Woodbridge, Chief Justice Fletcher,
Justice Morell, Rev. Geo. Duffield, Maj. J. Kearsley, Dr. Z.
Pitcher, and C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Committee appointed by a resolution of the Board at the last quarterly meeting, to attend
to the interests of the University before the Commissioners
appointed under an Act of the Legislature relative to the
claims of settlers, made the following report, which was
accepted and referred to a select Committee of three, consisting of Chancellor Farnsworth, Maj. Kearsley, and Dr.
Pitcher.
Proceedings before the Commissioners appointed under
the law of this State entitled, "An act to provide for the
sale of certain land to the settlers thereon and for other
persons at Niles in the Kalamazoo Land District and State
of Michigan."
Claim No. I. Noah Brookfield. S. E. 4 S. 27, T. 7 S. R. 17
West. This claim was clearly proven and allowed by the Commissioners without objection. (State Building Lands.)
Claim No. 2. Josiah Pidge. N. E.., Sec. 27, T. 7 S. R. I7
West. This claim was fully proven and allowed by the Commissioners without objection. (State Building Lands.)




I32


JULY MEETING, 1840


Claim No. 3. Wilson N. Beck, N. W. %, Sec. 21 T. 7 S. R. 17
W. Rejected without argument as clearly bad.
Claim No. 4. Samuel Kirby. S. E. ~, S. 33, T. 7 S. R. I7 W.
Claim No. 5. Hiram Chilson. S.E. 4, S. 28, T. 7 S. R. I7 W.
Claim fully proven and allowed without objection.
Claim No. 6. Robert Cassidy. S. E. '4, S. 34, T. 7 S. R. I7 W.
Claim No. 7. William C. Slater, N. W. /4, S. 28, T. 7 S. R.
I7 W. Claimant being sworn says he settled on the premises claimed
in the fall or winter of I835, but did not move on with his family
until late in the fall of I836, went off the premises last fall (I839)
with his family and returned this spring, where I now reside. Did
not go off with the intention of remaining permanently. Entered
on ithe land in his own right and for his own benefit. Has never
sold or agreed to sell his right or claim provided it should be
established, prosecutes the same for his own benefit.
Hiram Chilson, being sworn as a witness for claimant, confirms the above statement in all its essential particulars.  This
claim upon the evidence was objected to on the part of 'the University. Ist, that claimant should have shown himself to have been
an actual personal resident on the premises previous to their
selection for University purposes, which he has not done. 2nd,
because claimant moved off the premises and by so doing virtually
abandoned them and could not by returning reinstate himself into
his original rights. These objections were overruled and the claim
was allowed.
Claim No. 8. Elias Downing. N. W. 4, S. 33, T. 7 S. R. 17 W.
Claim was fully proven and allowed-without objection.
Claim No. 9. James V. Cummings. N. E. 4, S. 28, T. 7. S. R.
17 W. Claim proven and allowed without objection.  (Improvement 6 to Io acres').
Claim No. Io. Mrs. Hannah Willard. S. W. ~4, S. 34, T. 7
S. R. 17 W. Proven and allowed without objection.
Claim No. ii. Mrs. Jones. N. W. 4, S. 22, T. 7 S. R. 17 W.
Claim proven and' allowed without objection.
Claim No. 12. Moses Finch, Junior. N. W. 4, S. 34, T. 7. S.
R. I7 W. Upon argument this claim was rejected.
Claim No. I3. Isaac A. Finch. N. E. /4, Sec. 33, T. 7 S. R.
17 W. Claimant being sworn says he moved on to the premises
claimed in the fall of I835. Has lived there ever since, except
that himself and part of his family were absent during the summer
of I836, while he was doing a job of work on a mill; the remainder
of his family remained on the land and kept house. Entered for
his own use and benefit solely. Made an agreement in March, I839
to sell his claim provided the Law then pending before the Legislature of this State, and afterwards vetoed by the Governor, should
be passed. This agreement was in writing, and referred expressly
to the law above.mentioned, and no other. It was cancelled a few
days since. Has never made any other contract to sell, and there is
no agreement that this shall be renewed. There is no other claimant to these premises.
Robert Cassidy, sworn as witness for claimant, confirms the
above statement in all essential particulars.
This claim was objected 'to upon the evidence, on the ground
that the contract mentioned in the deposition of the claimant
worked a forfeiture of his claim and that no subsequent act or




JULY MEETING, 1840


I33


thing could restore it. The objection was overruled and the claim
allowed.
Claim No. 14. William Murphy. S. W.,/4 Sec. 3, T. 7 S. R.
17 W. This claim, upon argument, was rejected.
Claim No. 15. John F. Brogoo. N. W. 74, Sec. 36, T. 7 S. R.
i8 W. Claim proved and allowed without objection.
Claim No. I6. Anson Babcock. N. E. %, Sec. 26, T. 7 S. R.
I8 W. Claim rejected upon argument.
Claim No. 17. Joseph P. Martin. S. W. ~', Sec. 22, T. 7 S. R.
I7 W. Claim    rejected for want of personal residence on the
premises.
Claim No. I8. Austin Stocking. N. W. ~, Sec. 3, T. 8 S. R.
17 W. Claim proved and allowed without objection.
Claim No. I9. Calvin Bebee. N. E., Sec. I8, T. 8 S. R. I8
W. Claim rejected.
Claim No. 20. Moses Finch, Sen. S. W.,I4, Sec. 3, T. 8 S. R.
I7 WV. Claimant being sworn says he moved onto the premises
claimed in April 1833 and commenced improvements. Continued
to live upon the land until May I839 when he went off and rented
it. He himself went to Wisconsin, and his family to Indiana.
Returned from Wisconsin but a week or two since and his family
yet remain in Indiana. When he went away he left a tenant on the
land and reserved a right to occupy one room in the house. Tenant
was to pay him $21 a year rent.   No person now lives on the
premises. Before he went away he made an agreement to sell his
right in the premises, which agreement is now    cancelled.  It
referred expressly to the Law of 1838, which was vetoed by the
Governor and was cancelled before I left the premises. It was
an agreement to sell my right provided I should establish a claim
under said Law then expected to be passed.
Job Brookfield sworn as a witness for claimant confirmed the
above statement in all essential particulars.
This claim was objected to: Ist, because claimant was not at
the time of:the passage of the State Law an actual settler residing
on the lands therein mentioned, and had not at that time any subsisting interest in the land claimed. 2nd, that the contract mentioned in claimant's deposition worked a forfeiture of all his
rights.
Objections were overruled and claim allowed.
Claim No. 21. Watson Roe. S. E. 4, Sec. I8, T. 8 S. R. 17 W.
Claimant being sworn says he moved onto the premises claimed
with' his family in August, 1835, and has lived on them ever since.
Has 50 or 60 acres under improvement, entered for his own benefit
alone, and has never sold or agreed to sell his interest or claim in
the premises. There was another settler on the same quartersection who went on about the same time I did. He lived on the
east half of the quarter and I on the WVest. He moved off and
went to Illinois in the fall of I838, and I purchased out his possession.  His name was Lee and he claimed the E. half of the
premises upon which he lived.
Alanson Hamilton being sworn as a witness confirmed Mr.
Roe's statements.
It was contended that Mr. Roe had a good claim for only one
half the premises, the other not having been occupied or improved
by him until the fall of I838, or that he must take a right only as
teniant in common with the University.




134


JULY    il1EETING, I840


The Commissioners, however, allowed the claim to the whole
quarter-section.
Claim No. 22. Alanson Hamilton, N. W. 4, Sec. I7, T. 8 S.
R. I7 W. Claim proven and allowed without objection.
Claim No. 23. John Crum and Philip Hardman, conflicting
claimants to S. E. D4, Sec. 17, T. 8'S. R. I7 W. This claim was
clearly proven and there was no dispute except as to the conflicting
claims of the parties claiming.
Claim No. 24. Stephen Crum. N. E. 4, Sec. I7, T. 8 S. R. 17
W. Claim clearly proven and allowed without objection.
Claim No. 25. Alexander Blake. N. W. 4, Sec. 21, T. 8 S. R.
7 XV. Claim proven and allowed without objection.
Claim No. 26. Mandana Hobert and Pamila Chilson, Joint
claimants. N. E. fract. 4, Sec. 3, T. 8 S. R. I7 W. Claim proven
and allowed without objection.
Claim No. 27. Robinson. N. W. 4, Sec. I8, T. 8 S. R. I7 W.
Claim allowed without objection.
Claim No. 28. James Hoag. S. W. 4, Sec. I8, T. 8 S. R. I7
W. Claim allowed without objection.
Claim No. 29. Charles P. Wallin. S. W. 4, Sec. 25, 7 S. R.
IS W. Claim allowed without objection.
Claim No. 30. William Joquette. 3 fractions of fr. Sec. 22, T.
8 S. R. I7 W. Claim good against the State and allowed without
objection. (State Building Lands).
Claim No. 31. Jeremiah Slater. S. W. I4, Sec. 28, T. 7 S. R.
17 W. Claimant being sworn says he moved onto the premises
claimed in December, 1835, and has continued there ever since
until last week, when he moved off. The premises are now unoccupied. "I sold one-half my claim to J. C. Larimer, about three
years since. The bargain was made in writing and I received part
of my pay. It was cancelled;today and I gave my note for the
amount of purchase money I had received. The east half only was
sold to Larimer. About a year since I made a bargain to sell the
other half to Barlow and Babcock. This bargain was also reduced
to writing and I received payment in part. The effect of these
bargains was that I should convey to the purchasers upon obtaining
a title under the preemption laws of the State or United States.
This second bargain was also cancelled yesterday and I gave my
note for the payments I had received. I now' reside in Indiana
and have rented a place there. There is no bargain on my part to
renew these contracts if my claim is allowed, but I have promised
the parties the refusal of the premises.
Wm. Murphy, sworn as a witness, confirmed the statements
of complainant as to settlement, residence, etc.
J. C. Larimer, being sworn, confirmed statements of claimant
as to the contract with him. He paid claimant $50 cash at the time
the contract was made. It was cancelled this morning without
consideration and claimant gave witness his note without security
for the money paid. I gave up the claim because I supposed if
I kept it Murphy's claim would not be allowed and it would do
neither of us any good.
Messrs. Isaac Babcock and Lemuel Barlow stated the same
facts with regard to their contract with claimant. It was cancelled
yesterday and a note taken for the amount paid about $75. It was
cancelled without other consideration and because it could not be
good for anything to us.




JULY MEETINTG, 1840


I35


This claim was objected to on this evidence. Ist, because of
the sale or contract to sell to Larimer and Babcock and Barlow.
2nd', because the claimant by moving off had abandoned the premises
and all his claim or interest in them. He had no existing interest.
(Held under consideration).
Claim No. 32. Perry Knapp. S. W. ', Sec. I5, T. 8. S. R.
T7 W. Claim allowed without objection. (State Building Lands).
Claim No. 33. Robert Cathcart. N. W. fract. 4, Sec. 25, T.
7 S. R. I8 W. Claim objected to on the evidence and disallowed.
Claim No. 34. Matthew Reading. N. W. fract. ~4 Sec. I7, T.
8 S. R. I8 W. Claim allowed without objection.
Claim No. 35. Jesse Smith. N. E. 4, Sec. I4, T. 8 S. R. I4
W. Upon argument, after hearing the proof, this claim     was
rejected.
Claim No. 36. Lewis Bryant. N. E. 4, Sec. I7, T. 8 S. R.
I8 W. Claimant being sworn says he moved onto the premises
in I835, with his family and' has lived there ever since. Entered
for his own benefit, and has never sold or agreed to sell his interest
or claim. I live on the E. '2 of the quarter, and the W. VI is
now occupied by a man whose name is Ames. He moved on in
April 1838, and purchased out my brother who went on that half
of the quarter, about the time I went onto my half. Ames and
his family are yet there.
Benjamin Reading sworn as a witness confirms this statement of Bryant as to occupation, improvement, etc.
The same ground was taken in relation to this claim as in
the case of Watson Roe (No. 21) and the same decision made.
Claim No. 37. Isaac Howe. N. W. 4, Sec. 14, T. 8 S. R. I8
W. Claimant being sworn says he moved onto the premises in
Oct. I836, and has lived there ever since except about three months
of the winter of 1839. Previous to claimant's going on a man by
the name of Sanford had made a small improvement and partly
built a house. He, however, never moved onto the premises. In
June or about that time in I836, Sanford gave claimant these
improvements and' abandoned them. Claimant after that went on
and kept up,the fences and trimmed the nursery but made no
clearing or improvement prior to the time he went on with his
family. Claimant has never sold or agreed to sell his claim. He
now resides upon it. Improvements are about 3 acres.
Frederick Howe, a witness for claimant, being sworn, says
that sometime in the summer of I836, his brother, the claimant
told him that Sanford had given him the improvements on the
premises claimed. Claimant's family was then in New York and
did not arrive here and move on the premises until October I836.
Witness never saw claimant at work on the premises before he
moved on 'them. The lot 'is one mile from witness's place of
residence-does not know  that claimant made any improvement
previous to Sept. 20, I836. Claimant has lived on premises ever
since Oct. I836, and now lives there.
On this evidence this claim was objected to on the ground that
claimant had not occupied or improved premises previous to Sept.
20, 1836. (Case retained for further consideration.)
Claim No. 38. William Reading and Roswell Rice, joint claim.
S. E. 4, Sec. 17, S. R. I8 W.
William Reading, one of the claimants, being sworn, says he
moved onto the premises claimed in November I836. There had




I36


JULY MlEETING, 1840


been a previous occupant who built the house I moved into previously to moving onto the lot with his family, and in the summer
of I835, claimant went on and ploughed 4 or 5 acres, but made no
other improvements. Can't say that he made any improvements
before he moved on in I836. Has lived on premises ever since
except a few months in the Spring of I837 when he moved off to
attend a sawmill in the neighborhood with the intention to return.
The former occupant of the house left it about three weeks before
claimant moved on. Has never sold or agreed to sell his claim.
Roswell Rice, the other claimant, being sworn, says that lie
bought a claim to this lot in Oct., I835, and went to work on the
land. He boarded with a family then occupying the premises until
December, I837, when    he  moved  onto  the  premises  with
his family who had been at the east. Has lived there ever since
with his family. Sold his claim  and improvements this Spring
but did not receive any pay. He was by the contract which was
in writing to have received $I50. to be paid when the purchaser,
Emory Smead, took possession. The time he was to give possession
was stated in the contract, but claimant does not recollect when it
was. He intended to move away. This contract was cancelled and
destroyed yesterday.  It was cancelled because we concluded it
would prevent our holding the claim. Smead wanted to be off, and
I finally concluded to have the contract cancelled.
Lewis Bryant sworn as a witness confirmed' the facts stated by
claimants as to residence, occupation, etc. This claim was objected
to; Ist, as against Reading that he had not proved an occupation
and improvements within the meaning of the statute previous to
the time the premises were selected for University purposes; 2nd,
as against Rice that by his sale or agreement to sell he had
divested himself of all rights and had forfeited his claim; 3rd, that
Rice did not occupy and improve within the meaning of the Statute
previous to the selection by the agent of the University.  (This
claim was retained for further consideration.)
Claim No. 39. Frederick Howe, Junior. N. W. 4, Sec. 12, T.
8 S. R. I8 W. Claim objected to and disallowed.
Claim No. 40. James Kennedy. N. E.,4, Sec. 12, T. 8 S. R.
I8 W. Claim objected to on the evidence and rejected.
Claim No. 41. Benj. Reading. S. W. 4, Sec. 17, T. 8 S. R.
8 W. Claim objected to on the evidence and rejected.
Claim No. 42. Thomas McCartney. S. E. fract. ~, Sec. I5,
T. 8 S. R. I7 W. and N. E. f. 4, Sec. 22, T. 8. S. R. 17 W.
Claim good as against the State but disputed as between claimant
and Wm. Jaquette. (State Building Land.)
Whole number of claims presented at Niles, 42. Of these
there are on the State Building Lands, all of which are allowed, 5.
Whole number of claims on University Lands, 37.     Of those
adjudged bad and rejected, II. Reserved for further consideration
and undecided when I left Niles, 3. Number of claims on University Lands allowed, 23. The above statement contains the testimony
taken only in those cases which in my opinion were either doubtful
or else most clearly decided wrong, and those which were reserved
by the Commissioners and undecided when their sitting closed.
Should it be wished I can furnish the Regents the testimony in
every case. This, however, will not perhaps be thought necessary




JULY MEETING, I840


I37


as the Commissioners caused all the testimony to be reduced to
writing and signed by the persons swearing. This will no doubt
be returned with their report.
Very Respectfully,
(Signed) S. BARSTOW.
To the Regents of the Michigan
State University.
Dr. Pitcher su'bmitted a certified copy of a resolution of
the Legislature of this State, entitled, "A joint resolution
relative to the University of Michigan," and moved that
the same be referred to a Select Committee of three consisting of Messrs. Duffield, Kearsley, and Fletcher, to report
at the next quarterly meeting.
Mr. Trowbridge from the Building Committee made the
following report, which was accepted.
The Building Committee of the University of Michigan have
the honor to report to the Board of Regents, that, in pursuance
of the resolution adopted at 'the last quarterly meeting of the
Board, they have entered upon the erection of the Main Building
for the University.  By the resolution alluded to they were
restricted to the sum of Sixteen thousand dollars for the cost of
the building.
They proceeded immediately after the adjournment of the
Board to invite sealed proposals for furnishing the materials and
performing the labor for the whole or any part of the said building,
and in order to obtain the same upon the best terms, as well as to
afford to mechanics and furnishers of materials an opportunity to
participate in the competition usually attendant upon public contracts, notices were published in the newspapers at Ann Arbor and
Detroit. On the day appointed, the Committee met at Ann Arbor
for the purpose of receiving and examining the proposals, to which
duty they devoted the whole of one day and part of another. The
proposals, fifty-two in number were found to differ greatly in
amount and they were carefully reduced to an abstract form and
preserved for the inspection of the Board. Having ascertained that
the most economical plan for the erection of the building would
be to select from separate proposals for materials and labor, those
which were lowest in price, rather than to take any proposal for
the whole together, the Committee did not hesitate to adopt this
course, and they have accordingly made contracts for the stone,
brick, lime, sand, timber, boards, nails, etc., and for all the labour
necessary to the completion off the building, and they are happy
to say that the building is now being erected in conformity thereto.
They did not make their contracts, however, without having first
satisfied themselves that the total cost of the building by this
method would be several thousand dollars less than by any other,
and that it would be within the sum limited by the Board in their
resolution of April last.
The glass, locks, paint, and other material which cannot be
advantageously procured in the way of contract previously made
(the quality of these articles being various and the prices fixed
thereto respectively) the Committee propose to procure at one of




1:,


JULY M iEETING, 1840


the eastern cities through the agency of the Superintendent employed by them.
The building is now under the superintendence of Mr. Haspier
Lum, who was appointed to this office under the resolution of the
Board to 'this effect, adopted at the last quarterly meeting, at an
annual salary of $I,ooo, besides travelling expenses when necessarily
employed in the business of the Board, and whose skill, industry,
and integrity, have been so fully and satisfactorily exhibited to
the Board of Regents in the erection of the Professors' houses.
Respectfully submitted,
J. KRARSULY, 
WM. A. FLTCHIR,    Committee.
C. C. TROWBRIDGE, 
Ann Arbor, July 7th, I840.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the invoices and vouchers of Dr.
Asa Gray relative to the purchase of books, etc., which
were referred, on his motion, to the Committee on Finance.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be instructed to employ
Mr. Geo. Corselius temporarily to take charge of the books and
documents belonging to the University, until such time as the
Library can be permanently fitted up, at such compensation and
under such regulations as said Committee may prescribe.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, Messrs. Duffield and
Pitcher were added to the Committee on. the Library.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the following preamble
and resolution were adopted:
WUHIREAS, The Building Committee for the erection of Professors' buildings so varied the original contract with Haspier
Lum as to require the labourers of eastern workman to stucco the
buildings, therefore,
Resolved, That said Lum be allowed five per cent. premium
upon such sum as may meet his contract for said wvork, not to
exceed Six hundred dollars upon which said premium shall be
paid.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the following was ordered
to be placed upon the Journal of the Board:
New Haven, June 3d, I840.
In our opinion the method of stuccoing or rough casting
houses and other buildings of a permanent character, as practised
by Mr. Gill in New Haven and elsewhere, is worthy of much confidence. Particularly so if clean washed silicious or granite sand
lime of a good quality and hydraulic cecment to the amount of one
half the lime used (i. e. equal parts of common and hydraulic lime)
can be obtained. The houses in New Haven done by Mr. Gill in
the mode last named have thus far proved unaffected by the action
of the weather, and are quite dry after the most violent winter
storms, the water falling from the cement as from stone.




SECOND JULY I M1EETING, i840


I 39


The house of B. Silliman, Sr., has been finished thirtythree years and the cement is quite sound to the present
day.
B. SILLIMAN,
B. SILLIMAN, JR.,
R. S. BALDWIN.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be authorized to receive
from the Superintendent of Buildings, subject to the final control
of the Auditing Committee, such sums as may meet their expenses
in the discharge of their duties.
On1 motion of Dr. Pitcher, the Board adjourned to meet
on Tuesday next, the I4th instant at the, office of the Secretary in Detroit.
SECOND JULY MEETING, 1840.
Detroit, July I4th, I840.
The Board met pursuant to, adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley and Dr. Pitcher. A quorum not
appearing present, the Board adjourned until Tuesday evening, the 2ISt instant.
Detroit, July 2Ist, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Pre'sent: Dr. Pitcher and M/aj. Kearsley. A quorum not
appearing present, the Board adjourned until Friday evening, the 3ISt instant.
Detroit, July 3Ist, 1840.
The Board met pursuant to, adjournment.
Present: Chancellor Farnsworth, Justice Whipple, Judge
Wilkins, Maj. Kearsley, Dr. Pitcher, Rev. Geo. D!uffield,
and C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,    C. C. Trowbridg'e, Esq.,
was appointed president pro tempore.
Dr. Pitcher presented the following commOlunication rrom
the President of the Michigan State Bank.
Dr. Zina Pitcher,               Detroit, July ISth, I840.
Dear Sir:
The Treasurer of the University has in the State Bank a
deposit of about four thousand dollars which the Bank is unable
to pay except by assigning its securities. Its officers have now




I 40


FOURTH JULY MEETIAG, 1840


liberty to transfer and are daily transferring such securities in
payment of its liabilities and are disposed to give to the University
a preference in selection, if they choose to accept it. The suggestion is made in consequence of an unfavorable alternative received from the heavy Eastern creditors of the institution, which
if adhered to, must inevitably place its affairs in the hands of a
Receiver. Should you think proper to communicate this proposition
to the Board of Regents, such measure, to be effectual, should
be adopted at the earliest practicable opportunity.
I remain respect'y,
Your obt. Servt.,
Gto. F. PORTER.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the above communication be referred to the
Committee on Finance, with full power and authority to adjust and
settle the claim therei'n referred to and to take such securities for
its ultimate payment as they may deem proper, and further to grant
in the name of this Board acquittance for the money due this Board
from the said Bank.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, Rev. Geo. Duffield
was appointed one of the Committee on Branches in the
place of G. O. Whittemore, whose term of office as a member of the Board of Regents has expired.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Building Committee, reported
that the plan of the Building now     being erected at Ann
Arbor for the University had been so far changed from
the original design that the exterior is to be finished with
stucco instead of being painted, and that the expense of this
alteration would not be material, while the appearance of the
buildings would be uniform.
The report was adopted and approved.
On motion of Judge Wilkins,
Resolved, That the sum of One hundred dollars be appropriated for the payment of the annual salary of the Librarian, provided he reside at Ann Arbor.
Resolved, That the Building Committee be authorized to provide
temporary shelves in one of the Professors' houses at Ann Arbor
for the Library.
On motion the Board adjourned until Friday evening,
the 2Ist August next.
Detroit, Friday, Aug. 2ISt, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Dr. Pitcher, C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., and Justice Whipple.




OCTOBER MEETING, I840


I4i


A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned until
the 4th quarterly meeting on the ist Tuesday of October
next at Ann Arbor.
FOURTH     QUARTERLY MEETING FOR I840.
Ann Arbor, October 6th, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Dr. Pitcher, Justice Morell, Dr. Daniel Hudson.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned to meet
at the office of the Secretary in Detroit, tomorrow evening.
Detroit, October 7th, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Chancellor Farnsworth, Justice Morell, Judge
Wilkins, M'aj. Kearsley, Dr. Pitcher, Dr. Hudson, and Rev.
Geo. Duffield.
On motion, Justice Morell was appointed President pro
temrpore.
The minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher from the Committee on Branches, reported
that in pursuance of a reso!lution of the Board, adopted
in February last, appropriating the sum of $400 for the
payment of the salary of a Principal of the Kalamazoo
Branch, over and above such sums as should be received for
tuition money from the students, Mr. William Dutton had
been appointed Principal of said Branch and had entered
upon his duties on the eighteenth day of September last.
On motion of M'aj. Kearsley, the above report was
adopted.
On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be instructed to employ
the time of Mr. Lum during the coming winter when he is not
occupied in superintending the construction of the University Building, in preparing and drawing such plans and profiles, building
drafts, etc., as may be necessary hereafter for the full execution
of the general plan adopted for the University Buildings.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the acting Librarian, under the direction of
the Library Committee be requested 'to prepare an accurate catalogue of the books in the University Library, preparatory to the
making of the annual report of the Board of Regents to the
Legislature.




142 -

OCTOBER M1JPEETING, 1840


(lu motion of same,
tNesolved, That the thanks of the Board of Regents be presnted.to Dr. Chas. W. Bomp, of La Point, Lake Superior, for his
valuable donation of books ("Conversations Lexicon") to the Board,
and that the Secretary of the Board be instructed to furnish
him a copy of this resolution.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, presented
the reports of the Principals of the White Pigeon, Tecumseh, Oakland, Niles, and Monroe Branches for the second
term  of 1840; also, the reports of the Treasurers of the
Monroe, Niles, and White Pigeon Branches for the second
term of I840, which reports were severally referred to the
Committee on Branches.
On motion of Dr. Hudson,
Resolved, That the Committee on Finance be instructed to
investigate the present liabilities, the accruing expenditures, and
all existing appropriations for objects not yet completed; also,
what further appropriations (if any) will be required to complete
the unfinished work now in progress; also, to make an estimate of
the annual contingent expenses for the next ensuing three years,
specifying the respective items thereof, together with a statement
of the financial condition of the Institution up to the 3Ist December,
1840, and report the same to this Board at their next regular meeting, accompanied by a recommendation of such practicable plan
for future action as, in their opinion, the state of the finances, the
general condition of the University, and wants of the country
may require.
On motion, the Board adjourned until Friday evening,
the twenty-third instant.
Detroit, Friday, Oct. 23rd, 1840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Dr. Pitcher anid Maj. Kearsley.
A  quorum   not appearing, the Board adjourned until
Friday evening, the 20th November next.
Detroit, November 20th, I840.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Dr. Pitcher, Maj. Kearsley, and Chancellor
Farnsworth.
A  quorum   not appearing, the Board adjourned until
the 22d day o'f December next.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1840


I C 1)


DECEMBER MEETING, 1840.
Detroit, December 22d, 1840.
'lhe Board met pursuant to adjournment.
'resent: Chief Justice Fletcher, Judge Wilkins, Chan(ellor Farnsworth, Rev. Geo. Duffield, H. R. Schoolcraft,
Esq., Dr. Pitcher, and Maj. Kearsley.
On motion M\aj. J. Kearsley was appointed President
pro tempore.
Mr. Schoolcraft, from    the Committee on the Library,
submitted the following report, which, on motion of MAr.
Farnsworth, was accepted.
Report of Committee on0 Library.
The Library Committee have examined with as much attention
as the time would permit, the Catalogue of Books purchased 'in
Europe for the University by Dr. Gray and derive satisfaction from
being able to express to the Board of Regents the opinion that
the trust committed to Professor Gray has been executed in a
manner which reflects much credit upon his judgment and discrimination in the selection and cost.
The collection numbers 3,700 volumes, embracing the various
departments of history, philosophy, classical literature, sciences and
arts, jurisprudence, etc.  A  large proportion of it, consists of
works which could not be obtained in America and many of the
editions are scarce and rare in Europe.
We deem it fortunate for the interests of the Institution that
such a basis has been laid for building up a Library which shall do
honor to the Institution, and we trust its claims upon the funds of
the Board for an annual and permanent increase, may be steadily
borne in mind.
We have the satisfaction to add that the entire collection has
been received and opened at the University buildings at Ann Arbor,
to which place the Committee are about to forward the valuable
but limited number of volumes elsewhere purchased.
The invoices of books purchased by Dr. Gray amount to
I,036, I8s, 7d,, or $4,606.55, upon which has been paid $I44.93 for
freight and charges and $35.75 for insurance, all which they beg
leave to recommend to be audited by the Fiscal Committee at the
sums charged.
Detroit, Dec. 5th, 1840.
HENRY SCHOOLCRAFT 
Z. PITCHER            Committee.
GEo. DUFFIELD o
Dr. Pitcher presented the claim of Julius Steele for
services as Tutor at White Pigeon Branch in 1838, which
was referred to the Committee on Branches, with instructions to inform: Mr. Steele that the Board are of opinion
that he has no claim upon them for services.




144


JI4NUARY MEETING, 1841


On motion of Dr. Pitcher, James E. Johnson and Melanchton Judson were appointed Visitors of the White
Pigeon Branch from and after the first of January next.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, subrnitted a report from the several Principals of the Branches,
Monroe, Tecumseh, and Niles, which were referred to the
Committee on Branches.
Maj. J. Kearsley presented his account against the
University for services in negotiating' the University loan of
$ioo,ooo which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
On motion of Mr. Farnswolrth, the following gentlemen
were appointed a Committee to prepare the Annual Report,of the Board to the Superintendent of Public Instruction,
viz., Messrs. Schoolcraft, Pitcher, and Duffield.
On motion olf Mr. Farnsworth,
Resolved, That the President pro tlempore of the Board be
authorized to sign warrants for the payment of such moneys as
have been or may be authorized to be paid by the Board.
On motion, the Board adjourned until the first Tuesday
of January next.
FIRST QUARTERLY MEETING, 1841.
Detroit, Jan. 5th, I84I.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Chief Justice Fletcher, Justices Ransom and
Whipple, Chancellor Farnsworth, Judge Wilkins, H. R.
Sichoolcraft, Maj. Kearsley, Dir. Francis Higginson, Rev.
Geo. Duffield, Dr. M. A. Patterson, Dr. D. Hudson, Dr.
Pitcher, and Lieutenant-Governor Gordon.
On motion, Maj. J. Kearsley was appointed President,
pro temnpore.
Justice Ransom presented the report, together with a
communication of the Principal, of the Kalamazoo Branch,
which were, on his motion, referred to the Committee on
B1ranches.
Mr. D'uffield from the Select Committee to whom was
referred the joint resolution of the Legislature of this State,




JANUARY MEETING, 1841


1I45


"relative to the University of Michigan," Approved March
25th, I840, made the following report, which, on motion of
Judge Wilkins was accepted and adopted.
Report of Select Committee
on
Joint Resolution of Legislature.
Board of Regents, Dec. 3Ist, I840.
To the Honorable, the Senate and House of Representatives
of the State of Michigan:
The Board of Regents of the University of Michigan respectfully present to the Honorable the members of the Senate and
House of Representatives, of the State of Michigan, the following
report in obedience to the joint resolution, "relative to the University of Michigan," approved March 25th, I840.
The resolution requires the Board of Regents to report to
your Honorable bodies at the commencement of your session, "if
any changes and what are necessary in the Organic Law of the
State relative to said University, in order to secure more effectually
the objects of the same."
The Board of Regents having duly considered this subject,
respectfully state that changes are needed and such as were contemplated in the Bill No. 36, on the file of the Senate for I840 and
herewith presented, as containing the views of the Board. The
first change in the Organic Law deemed essential is the proper
'restriction of responsibility to the Board of Regents. At present
the responsibility is dividedi and' the Board would be greatly facilitated in their action were such amendments made of Title I2th,
Chap. ist, Part Ist, of the Revised Statutes of this State as would
throw entire responsibility on the Board and require them to report
their annual Proceedings to the Legislature.
The second change relates to the trust and management of
funds of the University. Under the existing Law it is impossible
for the Board to adapt their measures to their means, or to project
or execute such plans as the interest of education, the wants of
the State, and the resources of the University may demand. The
machinery contemplated in Title II, Chap. 2, Sections I5 and 16,
is too complicated and cumbrous and the duties imposed on the
Superintendent of Public Instruction in connection with the University unnecessary and onerous.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
On motion, the President of the Board pro tempore, was
instructed to transmit a copy of the above Report to the
President of the Senate and Speaker of the House of Representatives of this State.
Mr. Schoolcraft, from. the Select Committee appointed
to prepare the Annual Report of the Board to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, made the following' Report,
which, on motion of Judge Wilkins, was accepted and adopted.




I46


JALNUARY MEETING, I841


Board of Regents,
Detroit, Dec. 3Ist, I840.
Sir:In obedience to a resolution of the Board of Regents adopted
on the 22d inst. the undersigned fulfill in their behalf a requirement
of the statute by presenting their Third Annual Report.'
In organizing a Board of Regents to carry out the views of
the Legislature in the establishment of a University, it is conceived to have been the primary object of this body to extend its
benefits as widely and at as early a period throughout the State.
as the wants of the community and the means at their disposal
would permit.
And their attention was therefore called at an early day to the
location and establishment of Branches of the University at suitable
points, where the branches of a classical and English education,
preparatory to the entrance of the students into the parent Institution, should be taught. This object has been steadily pursued, not
only from its being the appointed means for preparing classes for
the final collegiate course, but from the additional consideration
that in a new and hastily settled community it would be one of the
best and most practical means of arousing attention to the value
and importance of the plan of education submitted to the people
in the Organic Act and of thus preparing the public mind to
appreciate and foster it.
To this end the most competent men were sought as Principals
of the Branches, liberal salaries paid them, and every facility
afforded in connection with the exertions of the citizens at the
respective sites of the Branches to render the means of instruction
both efficient and reputable. The Committee on Branches charged
with this duty, have encountered an arduous task in the management of the correspondence, the selection of Principals and teachers,
the examination of reports, and the pecuniary questions which
required decision and adjustment. And the Board owes to it much
of the success which has attended the effort. It was conceived
that the requirements of the Act, and the duty of the Board of
Regents in this respect would have been fully performed by merely
obtaining instructors of competent literary and natural abilities.
disconnected from their moral influence both in the Branches and
in the communities in which they are located. And it has ever
constituted an object to find men, both as Principals and as subordinates, who united sound learning and apt habits of instruction, with
professional assiduity, good judgment, and practical piety. And
the confident hope is indulged that the importance attached to this
principle, in these selections for office, has produced a benign
result.
Of the seven Branches established, five are under the direction
of clergymen, and two, of laymen, of various religious denominations. Two clergymen are also embraced among the Assistants
and Tutors, the whole number of whom add to their literary qualifications, those arising from religious considerations.
The Board cannot, they believe, be mistaken in the importance
they attach to the connection between learning and morals, science
and religion; and,.at any rate, they would be unjust to themselves
not to express the belief that success cannot permanently crown
''The First and Second Annual Reports of the Board wvere not entered
upon the Records of the Proceedings.




JANTUARY MEETING, I841


I47


the Institution committed to their management after this ligament
is severed.
By reference to the catalogue of teachers and students here
with 'submitted, marked A, it will be perceived that twenty teachers
and Professors of all grades have been employed during the year,
who have instructed an average number of 236 scholars in the
various Branches of Classical and English Literature. A steady
increase of the number has taken place in the respective terms for
the year, the last and highest of which numbers 247.
These students have been distributed in seven Branches eligibly
located at some of our most promising villages and towns in various
parts of the State. A respectable proportion of them have studied
the Languages and higher branches of Mathematics; and the proficiency evinced has been generally such as reflects credit both
upon the Instructors and pupils.
At four of the Branches, namely, at Monroe, White Pigeon,
Niles, and Tecumseh, there have been Female Departments under
appropriate Instructors, where English branches only have been
taught. The effect of home schools in this Department has been
propitious, and they constitute a branch of higher instruction, contemplated by the Act, which is highly appreciated by -the inhabitants. In view of the whole amount of instruction furnished, its
character and distribution, it may be asserted that in no previous
year has the Institution, through its Branches, rendered equally
important service to the State.
While the Board has devoted so large a share of its attention
to the Branches, it has not overlooked the paramount duty connected with the parent Institution at Ann Arbor. During' the year
four Professors' dwellings of a substantial, appropriate, and classical model have been finished and prepared for occupation at the
University site, and the Main Building commenced and carried
forward with spirit.
This building has been carried forward to its height and roofed
and is now in process of completion, and will, it is anticipated, be
finished and ready for occupancy in the autumn of 184I. In addition to which, the grounds, which embrace a quadrangular area of
40 acres have been enclosed in a neat and substantial manner, and
other improvements made.
One of the Professors' dwellings has been temporarily appropriated to the reception of the Cabinet of Natural History which
has been provided or is in the process of accumulation for the use
of the Professors and students in the various departments. And
these collections are about to be opened and arranged under the
direction of Dr. Houghton. It is known that early after the organization of the Board of Regents, they laid a foundation for this collection by the purchase of the Mineralogical Cabinet of Baron
Lederer, of Austria, which affords so far specimens representing the
mineral kingdom, not to be excelled on this side of the Atlantic. To
this have been added the extensive and valuable collections in geology, mineralogy, botany, and zoology, made within the geographical
area of Michigan by the State Geologist and his exploring corps.
This collection is due to the forecast of the Legislature who directed
their attention to the subject at one of their earliest sessions after
the admission of the State into the Union. The specimens are the
result of an assidious reconnoissance of three years' continuance,
embracing all parts of the State, from the southern and eastern




148


JANUARY MlEETING, I841


counties to its farthest northern and western limits, on Lakes Huron and Superior. And, if may be pertinent to add, that much of
the information thus brought to light is believed to be of practical
importance aside from the value of the specimens as illustrations
of the principles of science.
Dr. Gray was authorized to visit Europe immediately after his
appointment, for the purpose of advancing the Institution in the
respective departments committed to him and was furthermore commissioned to make the incipient purchases for a Library. The sum
of five thousand dollars placed at his disposal for this object has
been judiciously laid out by him. in the execution of this commission.
Three thousand seven hundred and seven volumes have been received and opened at Ann Arbor, for the character and value of
which the Committee beg leave to refer to a report accompanied
by a catalogue herewith submitted and marked C, which was made
to the Board at a meeting convened on the 22d inst.
The disbursements made during the year, designating the several heads of expenditure, a comparative schedule of the cost of
sustaining the Branches, and the general state of the funds, are
exhibited in a series of fiscal tables, herewith enclosed and marked
B, and denote the facts referred to. It was impossible that the estimates and anticipations entertained at the enactment of the organic laws establishing a University, at,the height of the general
fiscal crisis of 1836-7 should not have partaken in some measure of
the excited and oversanguine spirit which characterized all fiscal
calculations of the time; and the undersigned would not fully acquit
themselves of their duty to the Board or to the community in closing this Report without adverting to!the fact that the receipts for
land sold and the installments for interest accruing thereon, have
fallen short of the estimates. Acting on the principle which is believed to be true, that 'intellectual labor in all the departments of the
instruction should be well paid and encouraged in carrying it out,
by the actual condition, of the permanent funds of the Institution,
liberal salaries were awarded to the Principals of the Branches and
Professors (so far as appointed) and have been paid without delay
or deduction to. the present time. And they cannot but regard this
course of policy as one of the causes of the actual efficacy and success which has marked the course of instruction generally, at the
Branches. These salaries have been paid without respect to the
number of students taught and enrolled on the catalogues of the
Branches, each Principal of which has been held accountable for the
amount of tuition fees received, according to the rules and the
amount of tuition fees per term, established by the Regents, receiving from the latter the stipulated salary. That the Branches, although affording a sound and reputable description of instruction,
have been maintained at a comparatively high expense to the parent
Institution, is not to be denied, and it is.a question, in view of the
prospective and diminishing state of the funds and the increasing
demands of the University at its central point, whether the same
system should be indefinitely continued, or a connection established
between the amount of salary paid and the numbers taught. Disconnected from the question of finance, sound principle is thought
to forbid any respect to this relation.
A teacher's best abilities are as fully required to teach a few
as many. Even the time he devotes in the former case is out of
proportion and in excess to the diminished number of his pupils;




JANUARY MEETING, 184I


I49


and were it not, he is ready and willing to devote the whole number
of hours daily to his classes, which he owes to the public under circumstances of the fullest attendance of scholars. We have arrived
at a point in the establishment of the Institution when the organization of a Faculty at Ann Arbor and the opening of the University
proper is a consideration of moment, and the hope is entertained
that this may be brought about before the close of another year.
That it is expedient to attempt such an; organization without appointing a full Faculty, admits of no doubt. A limited number of
Professors would temporarily answer all the purposes of the incipient and limited classes, and the duties of Chancellor could be appropriately assigned to be performed ex officio, agreeable to the
principles of a resolution adopted by the Regents in the winter of
1838. Advanced as the Branches are in these means of instruction,
the instances are not single in which students who have gone
through the preparatory courses have gone into other states to complete their education; and we have no doubt from the facts before
us that a respectable and adequate number of students could
be enrolled for the final course at the University as early as the
main building for recitation and lecture rooms and dormitories,
now in progress, is completed. To accomplish this, however, with
our present funds without crippling the Branches or devising some
additional means for their support from the surrounding communities, will not be of easy attainment.
While the permanent funds of the University are of undiminished intrinsic value, and confidence is felt in the final ability of the
purchasers of University lands to pay up their installments and
interest, there need be no wellgrounded apprehension that the present annual receipts from these sources will be eventually diminished.
Nor can there be more reason to fear that the prices of the valuable and well selected portions of the lands, still held by the Institution, will not rise and sales be resumed, with the returning prosperity of the country.  Whether sources thus really ample and
which may be eventually relied on without fallacy, constitute
grounds in the present state of the Institution to justify the anticipation of their proceeds by a further loan, in order to consummate
on object so closely identified with the cause of education in the
State, is a question that has suggested itself to the Board, and it is
one that will receive all the consideration it merits.
Respectfully submitted,
HEINRY R. SCHOOLCRArT,
Z. PITCHER,
GEORGE DUFFIELD.
"A"
A Catalogue of the Professors and Teachers employed, or holding appointments under the Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan during the year 1840, together with the number, names
and studies of the scholars at each Branch during the respective
terms.
I. Professors and Teachers:
Dr. Asa Gray, Professor, Botany and Zoology, Central Inst. at Ann
Arbor.
Dr. Douglass Houghton, Professor, Mineralogy and Geology, Central Inst. at Ann Arbor.
Geo. P. Williams, A.M., Principal Branch of University at Pontiac.




150           JANUARY MEETIN\G, 1841
Rev. Samuel Centre, A.M., Principal Branch of University at Monroe.
Sebine Hough, A.B., Assistant Branch of University at Monroe.
Rev. C. W. Fitch, A.M., Principal Branch of University at Detroit.
Wm. A. Howard, A.B., Assistant Branch of University at Detroit.
Rev. Sam'l Newberry, Principal Branch of University at White
Pigeon.
A. W. Gray, Tutor, Ist and 2nd terms, Branch of University at
White Pigeon.
B. L. Baxter, Asst. Tutor, 2nd term, Branch of University at White
Pigeon.
Rev. Mathew Meigs, Asst. Tutor 3d term, Branch of University at
White Pigeon.
John Ogden, Asst. Tutor 3d term, Branch of University at White
Pigeon.
Rev. Joseph Whiting, Principal Branch of University at Niles.
Rev. N. M. Wells, Assistant Branch of University at Niles.
Andrew Harvie, Principal Branch of University at Tecumseh.
Benj. L. Baxter, Assistant Branch of University at Tecumseh.
Rev. Wm. Dutton, Principal Branch of University at Kalamazoo.
Female Assistants:
Miss Isabella McQueen, Ist and 2d term I840, Monroe.
Miss Jane Kelly, ISt and 2d term I840, Monroe.
Miss Mary Bates, ISt and 2d term 1840, Monroe.
Miss Melvina M. Snow, Tecumseh.
Miss Maria Stephens, Niles.
2. Aggregate number of students in each department taught
at each Branch, during the respective terms:


IST        2D
TERM       TERM
Pontiac.....   I9         22
Monroe.....    79         6I
Detroit.....       2525
White Pigeon    50         51
Niles....... 27           38
Tecumseh... 23            40
Kalamazoo...
223        237


3D     CLASSICAL  ENGLISH
TERM  DEPARTMEINT DEPARTMEiNT


I5        I5
3I         I5
25         20
52         19
47         2I
56         22


i6
II
5
33
26
34


226        112        II4


3. Register of all the names of all students who have attended
at the Branches during the year I840 denoting their place of residence.
Branch at Pontiac.


James T. Barber
Edward! J. Bartlett
George C. Beach
Oliver N. Beach
Seth C. Beach
James Burnett
Sam'l Chamberlin
William Cornell
Howard A. Crumb
Joseph Donaldson
Charles C. Hascall, Jr.


Pontiac
Independence
Pontiac
Pontiac
Flint
Waterford
Pontiac
Pontiac
Pontiac
Commerce
Flint




JAINUARY MEETING, 184I


151


Ira Hodges
facob J. Hosmer
Charles A. Howard
Charles J. Hunt
Charles S. Hunt
James McCabe
John A. Nightingale
John H. Park
Benj. F. Parks
Calvin C. Parks, Jr.
William H. Parks
William W. Patrick
William Perry
William W. Phelps
Geo. Raymond
John Reed
Geo. H. Satterlee
Alonzo Sherwood
William C. Snell
Hervey H. Stevens
Jos. P. Toms
Geo. Vowells
Jas. O. Whittemore
James Williams
Robert B. Reed


Branch at lMonroe.


Wolcott Lawrence
Edwin Lawrence
Henry Lawrence
Francis Lawrence
Wolcott W. Lawrence
Columbus Godfroy
Frederick Godfroy
Jno. D. Darrah
Chas. Southworth
Abraham E. Peltier
Wim. Garwood
Jas. Cole
Rich. K. Frost
Geo. A. Skinner
Jas. D. Skinner
Elisha P. Terry
Jas. B. Kellogg
Horace Kellogg
VanHorn Miller
Sidney D. Miller
Arthur Miller
Charles A. Clark
Edwin Anderson
Sam'l Norton
Philip P. Loranger
Cyrus P. Adams
John Morehouse
Horace Morehouse
Pierson Morehouse
Gershom Buckley


Pontiac
Pontiac
Pontiac
Pontiac
Waterford
Saginaw
Lapeer
Pontiac
Pontiac
Pontiac
Troy
Pontiac
Independence
Pontiac
Pontiac
Springfield
Troy
Pontiac
Oakland.
Mount Clemens
Troy
Independence
Pontiac
Saginaw
Springfield
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe,Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe




I52


JANUARY MEETING, 184r


Edward T. Buckley
Julius S. Morton
Phineas D. Spaulding
Chancey P. Spaulding
Peter T. Gale
Lewis Lambert
Chas. J. Wood
Calvin M. Johnson
Seth Brown
Nelson Haight
Jonathan Brown
Fred'k Wyatt
Lewis Carabin
Chas. W. Noble
Francis Clark
Thomas Card
Hannibal L. Stanley
Jas. D. Wright
Julius H. Beardsley
Daniel Strong
Wm. O'Connor
Dwight Jackson
Chas. Meigs
Winfield Smith
Philo E. Doolittle
P. A. Barker
Harriet Conant
Martha Conant
Helen Conant
Sarah Conant
Mary A. Wing
Elizabeth Wing
Cornelia M. Gaylord
Mary W. Frost
Lucretia N. Frost
Jane E. Frost
Frances E. Landon
Jane E. Beach
Charlotte L. Hawley
Agatha E. Miller
Sarah E. Cole
Eliza Cole
Helen Noble
Maria C. Prentice
Semantha Humphrey
Harriet F. Smith
Elvira P. Smith
Teresa Scanlin
Jane T. Rabincan
Eliza A. Skinner
Sarah V. Centre
Mary Belle Centre
Lucinda Barber
Susan Aldridge
Orpha Bates


Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Ohio
Monroe
Monroe
Monroeville, Ohio
Chicago, Ill.
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Toledo, Ohio
Erie, Penn.
Jonesville
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Buffalo, N. Y.


Female Department.


Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe




JANUARY MEETING, I841


I 53,


Matilda D. Peltier
Mary E. Peltier
Eliz. P. Johnson
Maria E. Humphry
Mary Jane Mage
Mary French
Margaret McQueen
Laura Harvey
Mary Bell
Josephine B. Fish
Harriet D. Norton
Caroline Lawrence
Julia Lawrence
Margaret Murphy
Sarah Murphy
Abigail Clarke
Martha Darrah
Elmira Morehouse
Harriet Adams
Abigail Jackson
Martha Goff


Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Schenectady, N. Y.
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe
Monroe


Branch at Detroit.
Robt. F. Hunt                  WVm. M. Dean
Edward M. Pitcher              Thos. P. Watson
Edward C. Walker               A. Burlingame
Edmund G. Desnoyers            Wm. D. Whiting
Wm. B. Wesson                  Geo. Cooper
Aug. P. Cole                   Henry A. Wight
Lafayette Knapp                Theo. R. B. Palmer
Chas. S. Cole                  Henry Howard
Geo. S. King                   Hazen Titus
Lucretius H. Cobb              J. C. D. Williams
Jas. B. Witherell              Wm. A. McDonald
John T. Walker                 Chas. Brewster
Lewis F. Jasperson             Henry Mizner
Chas. D. Moran                 Harlow B. Goddard
H. A. Schoolcraft              John H. Smith
Thos. G. Hartwell              Walter P. Doe
Thos. H. Jasperson              Dan'l Merriman
Horace Roberts                 Jno. McMillan
Wm. D. Wilkins                  Thos. B. Davis


Branch at While Pigeon.
Marcus McMillan
Enos Foreman
Jas. H. Voorhies
Martin A. Schellhous
Edwin T. Schellhous
Edmund C. Schellhous
Ithuriel McMillan
Fredk. Engel
Henry Ullman
Morris Robinson
Jas. T. Hay
Jas. H. Rowen
Orion H. Loomis


St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph' Co.
St. Joseph Co.




154


JANUARY MEETING, 1841


Henry Barnard
Jas. W. Cathcart
Lemuel C. Laird
David Knox
Jno. Vandueson
Albro McCagg
Rich. Wells
Merrills Clark
Sam'1 White
Augustus Wilber
Benj. F. Sherman
Rollin Cogndon
Wm. Stead
Winm. Bell
Ephraim Sixby
Gustavus K. Gurney
Levi Sanders
Caleb Ereanbrack
John Cook
Oliver McGaffey
Henry Steele
Julius Wilber
Geo. Doolittle
Andw. Osborn
Robt. W. Wallace
Wm. W. Stewart
Chas. Childs
Marshall Cooley
Armontage Moore
Geo. Rowley
John Simonton
Telemachus Simonton
Anthony Manning
Geo. Tibbets
Ambrose Moore
Man Wheeler
Sam'l S. Etheridge
A. G. Martin
Henry Baxter
Cyrus M. Schellhous
Jacob Parker
Isaac Vandeventer
Geo. Welling
Jacob Engel
Euphronius Wheeler
Jos. V. Yates
Edward Pitcher
Maria P. Moore
Dorcas McCagg
Frances Bryan
Lois Bryan
Helen Baxter
Maria Roberts
Julia McGaffey
Joanna A. Merriman


St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
LaGrange Co., Ind.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
Ionia Co.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
LaGrange Co., Ind.
Ionia Co.
St. Joseph Co.
Branch Co.
St Joseph Co.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
Lake Co., Ind.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
Kalamazoo Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
St. Joseph Co.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
Branch Co.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
LaGrange Co., Ind.
St. Joseph Co.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
New York
Detroit
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
LaGrange Co., Ind.


Femrale Department.




JANUARY MEETING, 1841


I55


Eliz. Watson
Amanda Corbin
Eliz. F. Sanborn
Sarah Draper
Nancy M. Loomis
Aurilla Bean
Sarah Ferguson
Ann McKinney
Sarah McClark
Julia Holabin
Caroline Barton
Sarah L. Kerr
Harriet Steele
Cynthy Wallace
Cynthy Tibbi'tts
Catharine Manning
Mary Haywood
Sarah A. Etheridge
Eleanor Burnelle
Salina Schellhous
Laura J. Finch
Emilla A. Moore
Elvina Fitch
Louisa Haywood
Jane! White
Sarah Parker
Frances H. Newberry
Simon B. Berry
Wm. H. Chipman
Milton Conely
Chas. Cummings
Eleazar S. Dana
Henry W. Dana
Alfred L. Deniston
Edward P. Doan
Oscar M. Dunning
Sam'l W. Elliott
Jerome B. Fitzgerald
Wm. L. Fitzgerald
Theodore Fowler
Chas. W. Graves
Robt. Fowler
David H. Gray
Adura Griffin
Lucine Heath
Giles Heath
Albert Heath
Satterlee Hoffman
John M. Hull
Geo. Hunter
Robt. H. Huston
Wm. S. Kennedy
Solon Lacey
Peter K. Lyon
Elisha L. Mills


Branch at N'iles.


St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
Cass Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
Elkhart Co., Ind.
St. Joseph Co.
Branch Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
St. Joseph Co.
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Howard
Ontwa
St. Joseph
St. Joseph
Niles
Niles
Niles
Bertrand
Bertrand
Howard
Howard
Howari
Howard
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Bertrand
Niles
Niles
Bertrand




i56


JANUARY IMEETING, I84r


Jno. L. Perkins
Win. Parchase
Geo. Parchase
Uzziel Pelham
Wm. P. C. Whiting
Geo. W. William
Jno. C. Willson
FPco1
Eliz. Barney
Mary J. Brown
Mary T. Boughton
Maria C. Bush
Florence E. Dickson
Mary G. Dickson
Maria L. Fitzgerald
Emily Fowler
Sophia Gordon
Susan Hull
Amelia F. Hoffman
Hannah A. Lacey
Julia A. Lewis
Frances Mills
Mary Mills
Harriet C. Perkins
Ruth A. Reed
Sarah E. Rood
Mary J. Rood
Charlotte J. Treat
Anna B. Whiting
Caroline S. Wilson
Brian
Oscar G. Adams
Jerome Allen
Chas. Barkers
Jno. C. Baughman
Jos. W. Bird
Arthur Bissell
Dewitt C. Blanchard
Jac. H. Camburn
Miron B. Camburn
Wm. Brown
Hezekia'h Clark
Dwight Cleveland
Benj. Cutler
Chas. Demmon
Chas. L. Dibble
Robt. Dubois
Alvin Earl
Jos. Eastabrook
Henry M. Finch
W. N. Finch
Dan'l B. Green
Humphry Griffith
Theophulus Griffith
James Hale
Lee Mathew Hale


ale Department.


Niles;
Niles
Niles
PoKagon
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
St. Joseph
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Bertrand
Bertrand
Niles
Niles
Niles
Niles
Three Rivers
Niles
Niles.


ch at Tecumseh.
Halstead H. Hoeg
Julius Holmes
Andw. J. Horton
Flavius J. Hough
Andw. Hunter
Jas. H. Hewitt
Henry Jasperson
Jas. D. McAllister
Lewis R. Morris
Jas. E. Pithian
Sam'l E. Pittman
Wm. Potter
A. N. Prentice
Jno. Weir
Wim. J. Wainwright
Francis Welch
Jas. H. Wheeler
Chas. Wood
Roswell C. Wright
Geo. P. Tindall
Franklin D. Smith
Philip V. Smith
Myron W. Sweet
A. G. Darwin




JANUARY MEETING, 1841


I57


Female Department.
Marian Backus                Julia Holmes
Delia J. Baldwin             Mary J. Hough
Vesta D. Blanchard           Augustine Lattimer
Eliz. Bissell                Cath. Pittman
Josephine Brown              Amanda Potter
Mary Farrington              Ann M. Ring
Jane C. Faxton               Louisa Welch
Louisa H. Gilbert            Julia Lattimer
Ann E. Grant                 Eliza Wood
Cornelia C. Hewitt           Jane Davis
Eliza Hewitt                 Sarah Holloway
Mary Hoeg                    Sally Potter
NOTES BY THE COMMITTEE.
University. April 8th, I84o. the Committee on Appointments
Awere instructed to correspond with Dr. Gray respecting suspension
of salary. May 5th said Committee reported that they had exe-,cuted that duty and that Dr. Gray consented to a suspension for one
year. Dr. Houghton having received his appointment on the consideration of his salary commencing after the termination of his
services as State Geologist and, being engaged in the latter duties,
no payments to him have been made in his capacity of Professor
of the University.
Pontiac Branch. All the students taught in this Branch are in
-the Classical Department. The Principal reports that the time devoted by him, daily, to their instruction is 6 hours. Of the I5 students reported in the 3d term, 12 were in attendance during the
first half of the term, and I4, the last half. Several who entered
were compelled to withdraw on account of sickness. The total.amount received for tuition 3d term is $59. of which sum $5 was
remitted.
Mouroe Branch. The Principal reports 24 of the students in
the Male Department as engaged in the study of the Languages,.26 in pure and mixed Mathematics, and 29 in English and universal
Arithmetic. The Female Department in this Branch was discontinued in August for want of a suitable building.
Detroit Branch. The Principal reports the following appropria-tion of time in the daily studies:
Time devoted by. all daily, 8/2 hours.
Time devoted by Principal, 5/2 hours.
Time devoted by Tutors, 3 hours.
Number of teachers      2
English Department      5    3d 
Classical Department   20
Total Number           25
Of these 25, six have paid for half the term and one left at the
middle of the term without paying. The only deficiency, with this
exception, has been of a year and half standing, one of whom attended the whole term, the other two but a part.
TIWhite Pigeon Branch. Several changes of the assistant teachers were made during the year and, one transferred to another
Branch. The Rev. P. W. Warriner acted as Tutor I, of the first




i58


JANUARY IMETTING, I841


term and Mr. A. W. Gray acted in the same capacity for part ot
the Ist and 2nd terms. Mr. Baxter as Assistant Tutor the 2nd
term, and Mr. John Ogden as Assistant Tutor the 3d term. A number of the students taught at,this Branch were from Indiana.
Niles Branch. Of the whole number of students at this Branch,
21 are designated on the catalogue as pursuing Classical studies.
The Female Department numbers 21.
TecuJlseh Branch.. Mr. Baxter was transferred from White
Pigeon to this Branch at the commencement of the 3d term. Previously to this date, the duties of Tutor had been performed for
part of the time by Horace L. Skinner and subsequently by James
L. Smith.
Kalaimazoo Branch. This Branch was revived in September last
after a year's interruption and placed under the supervision of Rev.
Wm. Dutton. No catalogue of the students has been received at
the date of this report. The total number is reported at 21.
"B"
Fiscal Tables.
I. General abstract of all expenditures made by the Board of
Regents on account of the University of Michigan during the year
terminating on the 3Ist December, 1840, as exhibited on the Books
of the Secretary of the Board.
1840
Jan. 3-Jos. Whiting, salary Principal Niles Branch, term
ending  Dec. 24,  I839...........................$  400.00
Jan. 4-Samuel Centre, I/3 year's salary, Principal Monroe Branch................... 39I.00
Jan. 4-Isabella McQueen, I/3 year's salary, Monroe
Branch.......................................  82.00
Jan. 4-Jane Kelly, I/3 year's salary, Monroe Branch...   150.00
Jan. 4-S. Hough, 1/2 first term I840, Monroe Branch...   I00.00
Jan. 4-H. Lum, contract for Main Building............  2500.00
Feb 21-C. W. Fitch, salary to May i6th, 1840..........  375.00
Mar. 7-Wm. A. Fletcher, expenses attending meeting
Board  at  sundry  times.......................  48.00
Mar. 7-Building Committee, digging well..............    68.oo
Apr. i-Sundry members Board, expenses to Ann Arbor
at meeting of Board, postage, and a/c of Dorr,
W ebb  &  Co..................................  54.68
Apr. Io-G. P. Williams, salary ist term, I840...........  400.00
Apr. I3-E. Farnsworth and others attending meetings of
Board  at Ann  Arbor...........................  59 50
Apr. 14-H. Lum, contract for Professors' houses.......  2500.00
Apr. I8-S. Newberry, bal. salary due..................  238.45
Apr. I8-Jos. Whiting, salary for term  ending Apr. 9,
I840.........................................  300.00
Apr. 21-A. Harvie, salary 2d term, 1840................  350.00
Apr. 22-S. Centre, I/3 year's salary balance............  289.i6
Apr. 22-Isabella McQueen, 1/3 year's salary, teacher, bal.  70.00
Apr. 22-Jane Kelly, 1/3 year's salary, teacher, bal......  I30.00
Apr. 22-Asa Gray, year's salary to I7th July, 1840.......  1500.00
May 14-Chester & Stringham, freight on books........    I73.79
May 14-H. Lum, charges on books to Ann Arbor.......      15.30
May I5-David McCormick, cedar posts................     I78.00




JANUARY MEETING, 1841


I59.


May I8-C. W. Fitch, salary to Aug. i6th, 1840.........   375.00
May   9 Dawson & Bates, printing....................     13.00
May 20-H. Lum, materials for Main Building..........     2000.00
May 2I-John Daly, transpor'n of posts to railroad......    2.00
June 2-A. Ten Eyck, salary as Secr'y................     I00.00
June 3-A. W. Gray, teacher, White Pigeon............     20.00
June 15-S. Newberry, bal. salary Ist term, I840........  I44.63
June 22-A. Harvie, advance salary for 2d term, 1840....    50.00
June 27-Chester & Stringham, freight on 4 boxes books      2I.77
June 27-H. Lum, on a/c contract Main Building........   2000.00
June 27-C. C. Trowbridge, Pres't pro ter. int. due on
State Stock loaned University...............  3060.50
June 30-Barstow & Lockwood, services attending before
Com'rs on Univ. lands at Niles, and disbursements..........................   I60. 50
July  9-H. Lum, Main Building.......................    2000.00
July  9-H. Lum, Professors' houses...................   oo000.0
July  9-A. Harvie, bal. salary 2d term, 1840...........    56.00
Aug. I-C. W. Fitch, salary to Nov. I6, I840..........     375.00oo
Aug. i-Z. Pitcher and others, expenses to Ann Arbor,
3d Quarterly Meeting, 1840..................    24.75
Aug. 3-M. Meigs, advance salary, teacher for 2d term,
1840........................................... 00.00
Aug. 4-M. &. L. Horrigan, digging well..............     I50.00
Aug. 5-Geo. P. Williams, bal. salary 2d term, I840....  I19.00
Aug. I2-S. Hough, bal. salary 2d term, 1840, and advance
on 3d term, teacher. Monroe Branch..........   I75.00
Aug. I2 ---S. Centre, 1/3 year's salary..................  375.74.
Aug. 13-S. Newberry, bal. salary to Aug. 6, I840.......  300.00
Aug. I5-Jos. Whiting, salary to Aug. 6, I840...........  400.00
Aug. 15-Chester & Stringham, transp'n goods for Univ.     I53.I4
Aug. I8-H. Lum, Main Building......................     3000.00
Aug. 19-J. L. Smith, salary 1/2 of 2d term, I840, teacher
Tecumseh...................................   50.00
Aug. 22-A. Harvie, advance 3d term, I840..............   I00.00
Aug. 26-S. Newberry, advance and part pay't 3d term,
1840.250.00
1840.............................................  250.00
Aug. 28-G. P. Williams, incidental expenses Oakland
Branch...........................              33.8(6
Aug. 29-Aetna Insurance Co., Insurance of Professors'
houses..............................0........  117.00
Sept. 5-A. W. Gray, salary 3d term, 184o,-teacher White
P igeon......................................  200.00
Sept. 9-H. Lum, Main Building......................     3000.00
Sept. 9-H. Lum, Professors' houses..................    Ioo000.00
Sept. 21-Baron Lederer on Regents' bond..............  1286.99
Sept. 30-Mr. Proudfit, travel from Albany and back....     50.00
Oct. 7-Dr. D. Hudson, expenses attending Board meetings, 3d and 4th Quarterly, 1840...............  28.00
Oct. 8-A. Ten Eyck, salary as Secr'y..................    75.00
Oct. 12-M. Meigs, part salary 3d term, I840............  I00.00
Oct. 23-H. Lum, Main Building.......................    3500.00
Nov. 12-H. Lum, final settlement of contract for Professors'  houses..................................  214.08
Nov. i6-C. W. Fitch, salary to Feb., I84I..............  375.00
Nov. 28-S. Newberry, advance 3d term, 1840..........      oo00.00




!i6o           JANUARY MEETING, 1841
-Nov. 30-M. Meigs, advance for 3d term, 1840, Tutor
White Pigeon...............................      30.00
Dec. 22-Interest on Univ. loan, Dec. installment and premium on same...............................    3060.00
Dec. 24-Jos. Whiting, salary term ending 24th Dec., 1840,
bal.........................................    350.00
Dec. 26-G. P. Williams, salary 3d term, 1840, Prin. Oakland Branch................................    346.00
Dec. 26-A. Ten Eyck, services as Sec. Board Regents..       50.00
Dec. 28-A. Harvie, salary 3d term, Prin. Tecumseh
Branch.....................................    300.00
Dec. 29-S. Centre, I/3 year's sal., Prin., Monroe Branch   433.33
Dec. 29-S. Hough, advance on       sal., Tutor Monroe
Branch......................................    75.00
$41852.43
2. Heads of Expelditures in I840.
Of the preceding expenses, the following sums have been applied to the objects named, to wit.
For the Main Building'of the University at Ann Arbor..$15,867.22
For  Professors' Houses...............................  7,000.00
For Inclosure and other improvements on Univ. grounds.     398.00
For Salary of Professors, Principals of Branches, and
assistants....................................  I 0,188.37
For  Interest  on  State  Stocks............................  6,I20.50
For Cabinet and Library...............................  1,497.9I
For Insurance on Professors' houses....................   117.00
For  Printing..........................................  13.00
For Secretary's Salary.................................   225.00
For Incidental expenses................................   425.43
Total expenditures during the year................ $41,852.43
3. Cost of Sustaililg the Branches.
The following appropriations cover the amounts allowed for the
pay of the Principals and their assistants, namely,
For the Branch at Pontiac.................$I200.00
For the Branch at Monroe................. I900.00
For the Branch at Detroit................. I6oo.oo
For the Branch at White Pigeon........... I80o.oo
For the Branch at Niles................... I700.00
For the Branch at Tecumseh............... I700.00
For the Branch at Kalamazoo.............. 400.00
Of this amount, there has been paid by the Board of Regents, by warrants on the Treasurer as above indicated  in  No.  2...........$                      0.....................   $IO,88.37
The estimated amount of receipts at the Branches may
be set down at....................................  2,460.00
$I2,648.37
*Of the latter sum which is assumed from the
best data at hand, there has been advanced by the Board (to be reimbursed if
this estimate holds good)................ $2,348.37


$Io,300.0




JANUARY MEETING, 1841


3. General state of the University funds as specially constituted by the State Loan and interest on lands sold.
To amount deposited in the Bank of Michigan i6th
Dec., 1839, as  per  last  report........................$55,644.90
To notes and bonds rec'd from the Mich. State Bank, being the amt. reported last year as standing to the
credit of Mr. Norton, former Treas. of the Board... 4,482.30
To amt. of interest paid by Bank of Mich. 3Ist Dec.,
1839.............................................  4,415  I2
To amt. of interest paid by Bank of Mich. 3Ist Dec.,
840...............................................  3,333.oo
To amt. of interest and installments on lands sold rec'd
from  Superintendent of Pub. Instruction since last
report............................................  6,402.9I
$74,278.23
Cr. By disbursements for all objects in 840           $74,27823
as per gen. abstract above............$41,852.43
Amt. of warrants pd. by Bank of Mich.
between the date of last annual report, viz. I6th Dec. & 3Ist of that
m onth.............................  4,510.00
Bal. to credit of University in Bank of
Mich. 3Ist Dec., 840.................. 26,85I.00
Difference incidental items.............. I,064,80 $74,278.23
Note.-The last item arises in this manner:
Interest charged on disbursements by the Bank...... $1118.77
Item   paid  to  C. C. Douglass........................  50.00
From which deduct cash repaid by Mr.               $ 168.77
Pratt, April I7th...................  $69. oo
Recd. by Bank to credit of Univ. from
other  sources..........................  34-97  I03.97
$Io64.80
Dr. D. Hudson      submitted   the  following    resolution,
which on motion of Justice Ransom, was laid upon the
table.
Resolved, That this Board in their report to the present session
of the Legislature recommend the reduction of the minimum price
of the University lands to ten dollars per acre.
On motion the Board adjourned until the evening of the
7th instant.
Detroit, Jan. 7th, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor Gordon, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Justice Ransom, Chancellor Farnsworth, Dr. Hudson, Dr. Pitcher, Judge Wilkins, Dr. Higginson, Rev. Geo.
Duffield, Maj. Kearsley, and C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.




I62


JANVUARY MEETING, 1841


Lieutenant-Governor Gordon took the Chair and called
the meeting to order.
Maj. Kearsley, from    the Committee on Finance, who
were instructed to, investigate the liabilities, expenditures,.
appropriations, etc., of the University, by virtue of a resolution offered by Dr. Hudson and adopted Oct. Ist, 1840, made
the following report, which, on motion of Justice Ransom,
was laid upon the table.
Report of Commlittee on Finance.
Receipts.
1838   Loan................................$I,.
1838  Premium............................  6,038.50
1838 Interest on proceeds of lands sold'.....  9,433.13
1838 Interest on unexpended balance of loan  2,583.82
1838 Interest on $5000 transferred to Superintendent by Trustees old Univ...  454.71
1839 Interest rec. Dec., 1840 for 1839......  6,402.91
I840 Interest in hands of Superintendent
as  he  reports.................   763.61
Interest due as stated by Superin-'
tendent, which will be paid March,
1841..............................  2,750.00
Due by Michigan State Bank and secured: by mortgage.................  4,482.30




$132,908.98 $132,908.98


Disbursements.


1838 On account of Branches.............$ 7,800.00
Dec. 16, 1839
From Dec. 2d, 1837, to Dec. I6, 1839
to wit., for Branches............... 13,150.09
Library and Cabinet of Minerals....... 8,279.51
Salary of one Professor for 1838...... 1,500.00
Buildings at Ann Arbor............... 26,896.19
Interest on $Ioo,ooo loan.............. 6,099.75
Clerk hire, stationery, printing, room
rent for Geological cabinet, etc., etc... 2,011.12
Salary one Professor for 1839......... 1,500.00
For minerals ($Iooo) exchange on same   1,ooo.oo
Dec. 31, 1839
Cabinet  and   Library,  ($I,497.91)
Main Building of Univ. (12,500)..... 13,997.91
Professors' Dwellings ($7,000) wood
houses, fences, etc. (3,367.22)........ 10,367.22
Enclosures and other improvements
on grounds.398.00
on  grounds........................  398.0o
Expense of Branches................. 10,188.37
Interest on $Ioo,ooo loan ($6,120.50)
Insurance (II7) Printing (13)....... 6,250.50
Secretary, salary for 15 months........  225.00




I
I




JANUARY MlEETING, 1841


I63


Incidental expenses for the actual
travelling expense of Regents, etc....  425.43
Deduct Disbursements.............$I00,089.09 $Ioo,089.09
Balance at disposal of Regents......            $32,819.89
Appropriations unexpended on Main
Building, wood houses, etc. to complete  the  same......................$  4,132.78
Estimated expenlses for 1841, to wit:
Travel fees of Regents................$  425.00
Salary of Secretary.................  200.00
Stationery, printing, etc................  25.00
Librarian.............................  00.00
Insurance...................            120.00
Expense of Branches, as at present
organized, in addition to fees for
tuition.............................  8,00o.00
Interest on $I00,000 loan............... 6,200.00
Installment for minerals............... 1,070.00
$16,140.oo
Add item............................ 4,32.78
Expenses  for  I841.................$20,272.78
On motion of Justice Ransom,
Resolved, That the salary of the Principal of the Branch at
Kalamazoo be increased to the sum of $500 per annum, in addition
to the fees for tuition received at said Branch, in consideration of
certain proposed measures for the benefit of the Branch to be
effected by Mr. Dutton.
Justice Ransom    submitted the following preamble and
resolution, which, on his motion, were adopted:
WHVHIRFAS, Tuition fees at the Kalamazoo Branch of the University are allowed to the Principal of said Branch, as a part of his
compensation, therefore,
Resolved, That the Principal of said Branch, be authorized in
his discretion, with the assent of the Board of Visitors, to reduce
the amount of fees to be exacted for tuition at said Branch, to
such sum- as they may deem practicable.
On motion of Justice Ransom, the following gentlemen
were appointed Visitors to the Kalamazoo Branch: Rev.
O. P. Hoyt, Luman Foot, Jeremiah Hall, Dr. Lewis F.
Starkey, and John P. Marsh, Esq.
Dr. Hudson submitted the following resolution:
Resolved, That from and after the.......... day of..........
next, no greater sums of money in addition to the tuition fees be
appropriated and paid for the support of the Branches of the
University, than the following, that is to say:
For the Branch at Detroit, the sum of.............. Dollars.
For  the  Branch  at Monroe............................ Dollars.




164           JAINUiJ UARY MEETING, 1841
For the Branch at Tecumseh...............D............. Dollars.
For the Branch at White Pigeon................... Dollars.
For  the  Branch  at  Niles..................................Dollars.
For  the  Branch  at  Pontiac.............................  Dollars.
On motion of Dr. Hudson, the above resolution was
referred to, a Select Committee of three, with instructions
to report upon the same tomorrow       evening.
The Chair announced the following gentlemen as said
Committee, Messrs. Hiudson, Duffield, and Higginson.
On motion the Board adjourned until tomorrow evening
at 6:30 o'clock.
Detroit, Jan. 8th, I841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor Gordon, Justices Ransom
and Whipple, Judge Wilkins, Drs. Higginson, Hudsoh, and
Pitcher, H. R. Schoolcraft, Esq., Maj. Kearsley, Chancellor
Farnsworth, and Chief Justice Fletcher.
Lieutenant-Governor Gordon took the Chair.
Dr. Hudson, from    the Select Committee to, whom     was
referred the resolution submitted by him    at the last meeting in reference to, the reduction o'f expenses of the Branches, submitted the following report, which was accepted:
Report of Select Comm11ittee.
Resolved, That from and after the.......day of.............
next, no greater osums of money, in addition to the tuition fees be
appropriated and paid for the support of the Branches of the
University than the following, that is to say:
For the  Branch  at Detroit, the  sum  of.................... Dollars.
For the Branch at Monroe, the sum of..........D..........Dollars.
For the, Branch at Tecumseh, the sum of...............  Dollars.
For the Branch at White Pigeon, the sum of.............. Dollars.
For the Branch at Niles, the sum of......................Dollars.
For the Branch at Pontiac, the sum of.....................Dollars,
WHHEREMAS, It appears from the report of the Committee of
Finance, that owing to the disasters of the times, which have nearly
altogether prevented the sale of University Lands and the collections
of the installments and interest due on those heretofore sold, as
well as the interest on the moneys loaned to the counties by the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, and owing to the proximate
exhaustion of the loan of $ioo,ooo, authorized by the Legislature,
in the necessary expenses incurred by the erection of buildings and
improvements of grounds at Ann Arbor, the purchase of a Library
and Mineralogical Cabinet and the support of the Branches, it will
not be possible for the Board of Regents, under present circumstances to appropriate the same annual amount they have heretofore
done for the support of the Branches.




JANUARY MEETIA;G, 184I


i65


AND, WnHEREAS, The Board having no control or direction in
the management of the revenue, arising from the lands of the
University, and therefore having no data on which to found hope
for the future, but what may be obtained contigently from the
action of the Legislature, or of the Superintendent, cannot feel
themselves authorized to sustain or incur responsibilities they do
not know how, and have no authority, to provide for themselves.
AND, WHEREAS, There is reason to believe that the change which
has taken place in the expenses of living in different places during
the past year, and the success thus far attending the efforts to
establish the Branches, that the appropriations, without doing injury
to the teachers or the Branches, may be so graduated as to meet
the exigency of the times, to preserve the system at present in
operation, and to prepare the way for the organization of a Collegiate Faculty.
AND, WHEREAS, Further serious doubts are entertained whether
there may not be a salutary change made in the Branches, so as to
equalize the appropriations to each, and leave room for the skill,
reputation, and industry of the Principals to increase their receipts
by giving in addition to such appropriations the entire amount of
tuition fees, therefore,
Resolved, Ist, That the first blank in the foregoing resolution
be filled with the words, "the nineteenth day of April next."
2nd. That this Board do now proceed to fill the residue of
the blanks in the foregoing resolution with such sums as shall
be deemed expedient for each of the Branches respectively.
3rd. That the Committee on Branches be and they are hereby
directed to enter into a correspondence with the Principals of all
the Branches named in the foregoing resolution whose annual
appropriation shall be reduced by the filling up the blanks under the
provisions of 'the last preceding resolution, and explain to them the
causes which have compelled this Board with great reluctance to
adopt this course, it being the only alternative, in their opinion, by
which the Branches can be sustained through the present crisis,
and their future usefulness permanently secured, and endeavor to
establish such arrangements with them as shall be best calculated to
accomplish the objects contemplated in these resolutions.
DANIEL HUDSON,
Chm. of Committee.
The Report being under consideration, on motion of
Judge Wilkins, the first branch of the resolution of the
Committee, was adopted.
The second branch of the resolution of the Committee
being under consideration, Maj. Kearsley moved to fill the
blank in reference to, the Detroit Branch with "five hundred."  Dr. Pitcher moved "one thousand."    Justice Fletcher moved "eight hundred."     The question being on filling
the blank with "one thousand," it was decided in the negative by yeas and nays -as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Whipple, Higginson, Pitcher, Schoolcraft, Farnsworth. 5.




166           JANUARY MEETING, 1841
Nays: Messrs. Ransom, Fletcher, Wilkins, Hudson, Kearsley,
Gordon. 6.
The question being on filling the blank with "eight hundred"
it was negatived by yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Fletcher, Higginson, Pitcher, Schoolcraft, Farnsworth. 5.
Nays: Messrs. Ransom, Whipple, Wilkins, Hudson, Kearsley,
Gordon. 6.
The question being on filling the blank with "five hundred,"
is was decided in the affirmative by yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Ransom, Wilkins, Hudson, Kearsley, Farnsworth, Gordon. 6.
Nays: Messrs. Whipple, Fletcher, Higginson, Pitcher, Schoolcraft. 5.
The question being upon filling the blank in reference to the
Monroe Branch, on motion said blank was filled with "five hundred,"
by the following vote:
Yeas: Messrs. Ransom, Wilkins, Hudson, Kearsley, Farnsworth, Gordon. 6.
Nays: Messrs. Whipple, Fletcher, Higginson, Pitcher, Schoolcraft. 5.
The question being on filling the blank in reference to the
Tecumseh Branch, on motion said blank was filled with "five hundred," by the following vote,
Yeas: Messrs. -Ransom, Wilkins, Hudson, Kearsley, Farnsworth, Gordon. 6.:Nays: Messrs. Whipple, Fletcher, Higginson, Pitcher, Schoolcraft. 5.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the blanks in reference to the
Branches at White Pigeon, Niles, and Pontiac, were severally
filled with "five hundred" each.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, the vote taken upon the adoption
of the first branch of the Committee's resolution was reconsidered
and on his motion the word "April" was stricken out and the word
"August" inserted in lieu thereof.
The original resolution, as amended, was then adopted by the
following vote:
Yeas: Messrs. Ransom, Fletcher, Wilkins, Hudson, Kearsley,
Gordon. 6.
Nays: Messrs. Whipple, Higginson, Pitcher,-Schoolcraft, Farnsworth. 5.
The question being upon the adoption of the preamble,
reported by the Commnittee, it was adopted.
The report of the Committee was then on motion of Dr.
Hudson adopted.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the report of the Finance
Committee, submitted at the last meeting and laid upon
the table, was taken up and accepted'by the Board.
On motion, the Bolard adjourned until the I5th instant.




SECOND JANUARY MEETING, 1841


i67


ADJOURNED MEETING, JAN., I841.
Detroit, Jan. i5th, I84I.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley, Chief Justice Fletcher, Justices
Ransom and Miorell, Rev. Geo. Duffield, H. R. Schololcraft,
Esq., and Dr. Z. Pitcher.
On motion, Maj. Kearsley was appointed President pro
te'mp ore.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, presented
a communication from   Professor Fitch, Principal of the
Detroit Branch, asking an appropriation of $300, to defray
expenses incurred by him in coming to Michigan and removing from the State, after his present period of service shall
have expired, which, on motion of Justice Fletcher, was
referred to the Committee own Branches.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
repay the Rev. Mr. Taylor the expenses he may have incurred in
coming from Auburn in the State of New York to Detroit on the
invitation of said Committee.
On motion, the Board adjourned to, meet on Saturday,evening, the 23d instant.
Detroit, Saturday, Jan. 23d, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Chief Justice Fletcher, Justices Morell 'and
Ransom, Rev. Geo. Duffield, Dr. Pitcher, and H. R. Schoolcraft, Esq.
A quorum not appearing present, the Board adjourned
until Friday, the nineteenth day of February next.
Detroit, Friday, Feb. i9th, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Dr. Pitcher and Rev. Geo. Duffield.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned until the
i8th day of March next.




I68


APRIL 3MEETING, _84I


Detroit, I8th March, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: H. R. Schoolcraft, Esq., Chancellor Farnsworth, Judge Wilkins, Dr. Pitcher, and C. C. Trowbridge,
Esq.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned until the
2d Quarterly Meeting for the year at Ann Arbor, on the 6th
day of April next.
SECOND QUARTERLY MEETING FOR 184I.
Ann Arbor, 6th April, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to, adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley, Chancellor Farnsworth, Rev.
Geo. Duffield, O. C. Comsitock, Mr. Kundig, Judge Wilkins,
Justice Morell, Dr. Pitcher, C. C. Trowbridge, Esq., and Mr.
Jno. Owen. (Messrs. Comstock, Kundig, and Owen having
been lately appointed members of the Board by the Governor and Senate, this was their first appearance as members
of the Board.)
On motion, Maj. Kearsley was appointed President of
the Board pro tempore.
Dr. Pitcher presented the petition of sundry citizens of
Romeo, Macomb County, praying the establishment of a
Branch at that place, which, on motion of Judge Wilkins
was referred to, the Committee on Branches. Also, the
petition of citizens of Ionia, Ionia Co., praying the establishment of a Blranch at that place was referred as labove.
Also, remonstrance of sundry citizens of Kalamazoo, against
vesting the Trustees of the Baptist Institute at that place
with the power of appointing the Principal of the Kalamazoo Branch.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to
inform the petitioners in the above remonstrance that the Board of
Regents have the power of all appointments still in their hands.
Dr. Pitcher also presented the application of Calvin H.
Swain for the appointment of a Professor in the University,
which was referred to the Committee on Professorships.




SECOND APRIL M1EETING, 1841


I69


Also, the resignation of Edwin Kellogg, one of the Board
of Visitors to the White Pigeon Branch. The resignation
of Mr. Kellogg was accepted and the Committee on Branches were instructed to 'inform the Board of Visitors to said
Branch of the fact.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth,
Resolved, That the Committee on Finance be requested to
report at the next meeting on the claim of Isaac Thompson, now in
their hands.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That a Select Committee of five be appointed to
report at the next meeting of the Board in Detroit, upon the
expediency of organizing a Faculty in the central Institution at
Ann Arbor, and if so, at what time it should go into effect and of
what number it should consist.
The Chair announced the following as the Committee
in pursuance of above resolution, viz., Messrs. Duffield,
Pitcher, C'omstock, Kearsley, and Trowbridge.
Mr. Haspier Lum's term of service being about to expire as Superintendent of the University buildings, on motion, the expediency of further employing him on the work
was referred to the Building Committee with power.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at the office of
the Secretary in Detroit, on Thursday, the I5th day of
April instant.
SECOND APRIL MEETING, I841.
Detroit, April I5th, I841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presetit: Governor Gordon, Judge Wilkins, Isaac E.
Crary, Rev'ds O. C. Comstock, Duffield, and Kundig, Maj.
Kearsley, Chancellor Farnsworth, Mr. Jno. Owen, William
Draper, and C. C. Trowbridge, Esq.
Governor Gordon took the Chair.
The M\inutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, to, whom
was referred the petition of the citizens of Romeo praying
the establishment of a Branch at that place, reported, that
they recommend the location of a Branch of the University
at that place.




I7o


SECOND APRIL M1AEETITNG, 1841


On motion of Maj. Kearsley the report was adopted.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the report of the Principal of the
Detroit Branch, which, on motion, was ordered to be placed
-upon the files of the Board.
iMIr. Duffield, from the Select Committee appointed at the
last meeting of the Board by resolution relative to 'the organization of a Faculty in the central Institution, made the following' report, which was accepted.
Report of Select Commtittee on Orgalntialtion of University:
The Committee to whom was referred the consideration of
the subject of the most suitable time and mode of organizing the
Faculty of the University, present the following report:
It is the unanimous conviction of the Committee that the time
has come for the adoption of some measures for this purpose.
Some of the youth in the higher classes of our Branches will
presently have to leave the State to complete their education if
a Collegiate Faculty is not soon organized. The wishes and expectations of the people urge it. Our buildings will be sufficiently completed in a few months to afford every facility for Professors and
students and our duties and responsibilities under the direction of
the Legislature cannot be fully met without attempting it at the
earliest possible period. The interest and prosperity of our several
Branches require it.
Bu't while these considerations leave no doubt in the minds
of the Committee as to the propriety of the earliest practicable
attempt to organize a Faculty, it must be confessed that embarrassments of a serious nature present themselves. The funds obtained by loan which have been appropriated for the support of
Branches, for the erection of buildings, and for other necessary
purposes, are not adequate as a permanent endowment to meet the
expenses of even a very limited number of Professors. The uncertainty attendant on the collection of the revenues of the Board
by the Superintendent of Public Instruction, as proved by the
experience of the last two years, prevents any confident anticipations of any immediate or adequate increase of means. The destitution of all power on the part of the Board to adopt any measures
for the management of the funds belonging to the University and
the inexpediency and indeed impracticability of obtaining further
sums of money by loan to meet the demands and expenses of the
Institution, it is to be feared will render an experiment on this
subject precarious. After the bills yet due for the completion of
the public expenses as far as it is intended or as it may be
necessary to carry them for the present, as well as for the support
of the Branches and other incidental expenses to the 6th of August,
1841, there will be left in the Treasury the sum of $I4,667.48. This
sum will not be more than adequate for a year or two to support
the Faculty and meet the expenses necessary at the commencement
for the purchase of an apparatus, etc., and other expenditures to be
incurred there. Moreover, there is reason to fear that when competent and qualified gentlemen may be appointed either as Chan-;cellor or Professors, their inquiries as to the state of our funds




SECOND APRIL MEETING, 1841


I71:and their competency for a permanent support may not be met by
disclosing the actual condition of our finances in a way sufficiently
satisfactory to secure the acceptance of our invitations. Probably,
too, the number of students at the first will be comparatively small,
so as to make the total expense in support of a Faculty appear to
many to be too great an amount. Yet in view of all these grounds
of fear, the Committee feel pursuaded that having 'made all the
necessary preparations within the Board, they should proceed without delay to organize a Faculty. Believing that the Legislature will
not withhold the powers and means necessary for carrying on and
perfecting the work begun, we have nothing to do but go forward,
evincing ourselves a confidence in their legislation and zeal for
the interests of education and endeavoring to inspire those to whom
we may address our invitations with similar feelings. Much legislation is not needed. Far better will it be for us to proceed cautiously, prudently, economically and gather wisdom by experience,
than be trammeled by enactments either sketched in haste or unwise
theoretical attempts to give shape and character to what must ever
in a very great degree depend upon contingent events. The experience of the two or,three years past has proved ithat the powers
which the Board at present possess are totally inadequate' to the
efficient prosecution  of the great objects entrusted  to them.
A Bill was introduced before,the Legislature the winter before
-last containing some provisions which, had it been enacted, would
have given the Board the powers needed, but others somewhat
questionable. The subject was referred by the Legislature to the
Board and they were required to report to the Legislature at the,commencement of their next session on the subject. This was done,
but as yet there has been no enactment by the Legislature such as
the Board solicited.
The number of students offering for the first two or three
years will not render necessary more than three gentlemen of the
Faculty, or two with one or two Tutors. The Board will judge
whether it is advisable to organize a Faculty in part without a
Chancellor, or appointing a Chancellor to require from him in. the
early period of the Institution a more extensive and active participation in 'the instruction of the several classes, than it would be
reasonable or proper to expect when the number of students and
the cares and burdens and responsibilities of government shall be
greater than!they will be for some time. The departments which
it will be necessary immediately to fill are those of Classical Literature, Mathematics, and Natural Philosophy and the Moral Sciences.
The Languages and "the Belles Lettres" for ithe present might
be confided to the same Professor; both Mathematics and Natural
Philosophy to another; and 'should a third Professor be deemed
expedient, the balance for a year or two might be confided to him.
Or should a Chancellor and one Professor be preferred, a Tutor
or two would afford ample means for an equal distribution of the
labor of instruction so as to comprise the whole range of collegiate
studies. The two Professors' already elected occupy departments
in which their services will not be immediately required and are
at present so occupied as not to subject us to expense' for their
support.
'Dr. Pitcher, from  the Committee on Branches, presented the application of C. W. Fitch, Principal Dietroit




172


SECOND APRIL MEETILNG, I841


Branch, asking the said Committee to appropriate the tuition fees received from. students at said Branch for the
payment of Mr. Howard, as a Tutor in said Branch.
Mr. Trowbridge moved that the application be referred
to the Committee on Branches, with power, which motion
was lost. Maj. Kearsley moved that the application be rejected, which motion was lost by yeas and nays, as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Wilkins, Crary, Comstock, Kearsley,
Draper, Gordon. 6.
Nays: Messrs. Duffield, Kundig, Farnsworth, Owen,
Trowbridge, Pitcher. 6.
Mr. Trowbridge moved that the application be accepted
and the request of Mr. Fitch be complied with, which motion was decided in the affirmative by yeas and nays as
follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Duffield, Kundig, Farnsworth, Owen,
Trowbridge, Gordon, Pitcher. 7.
Nays: Messrs. Wilkins, Crary, Comstock, Kearsley,
Draper. 5.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Committee on the Library be requested to
inform Mr. Corselius, now in charge of the University Library at
Ann Arbor, that Mr. Colclazer, the Librarian appointed by the
Board, is about removing to Ann Arbor and will take charge of
the Library.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the Board adjourned until
tomorrow evening at 7 o'clock.
Detroit, April I6th, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presett: Maj. Kearsley, Rev'ds 0. C. Comstock and
M. Kundig, C. C. Trowbridge, Dr. Pitcher, Jno. Owen, Rev.
MIr. Duffield, Judge Wilkins, Isaac E. Crary, Chancellor
Farnsworth.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and
approved,
On motion of Mr. Trowbridge, Maj. Kearsley was appointed President pro temrpore.
Dr. Pitcher presented application of Mr. Harvie, Principal, the Tecumseh Branch, asking an alteration of the




SECOXD APRIL MlEETING, 1841


173


rules of the Board, in reference,to the hours prescribed for
study in said Biranch, which request, on motion, was not
acceded to; also,, the application of S. K. Schetterly for a
Professorship of Mathematics in the University. Referred
to the Committee on Professorships; also, the report of the
Principal of the Oakland Branch for Ist term, 1841. Referred to the Committee on Branches; also, the report of
the Principal of the Niles Branch for same term. Referred
as above, with power to, the Committee to, continue Mr.
Wells as Assistant, provided he take charge of the Female
Department of said Branch.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, to! whom
was referred the petition of the inhabitants of Ionia praying the establishment of a Branch at that place, reported
that it is inexpedient to establish a Branch at that place at
the present time.
On motion of Mr. Comstock, the report was accepted
and adopted.
Mr. Crary offered the following resolution, which, on
motion, was referred to the Committee on Branches.
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to
prepare and report to ithe next meeting of the Board, an Ordinance
for the better regulating of the Branches.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, the report of the Select Committee, made at the last meeting, on the subject of the organization of the University and of a Faculty, was taken up
for consideration.
Mr. Crary submitted the following resolution and moved
its adoption:
Resolved, That it is expedient to proceed in the further organization of the University by the appointment of a Faculty.
This motion prevailed and on motion of Dr. Pitcher,
said resolution was referred to the Committee on Professorships, with instructions to report at a subsequent meeting.
On motion of Mr. Dulffield,
Resolved, That the drafts and plans for the College Buildings
presented by Mr. Lum and which he has prepared in pursuance
of a resolution of the Board to this effect, adopted on the 7th day of
October last, be accepted and that he be and is hereby directed to
have the same framed and deposited in the Library.




I74


MA11Y MilEETINIG, 184.1


On motion, ordered that the Committee on Professorships, etc., be instructed to offer such salaries to the Chancellor and other Professors of the University not exceeding the amount now authorized to be paid, as in their discretion they may think proper.
On motion of Mr. Farnsworth, Dr. Pitcher was appointed one of the Committee on Professorships, etc., in
the place of H. R. Schoolcraft, whose term   of office as a
Regent of the University has expired.
On motion the Board adjourned until Thursday the 29th
day of April instant.
Detroit, April 29th, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to! adjournment.
Present: Rev. M. Kundig, Judge Wilkins, and Jno.
Owen.
No quorum    appearing, the Board adjourned until the
I3th May next.
MAY MNEETING, 1841.
Detroit, May I3th, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to! adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley, President pro teimlpore, Dr.
Pitcher, Chancellor Farnsworth, Judge Wilkins, Mr. Jno.
Owen, and Rev'ds Duffield, Comstock, and Kundig.
Chancellor Farnsworth from     the Committee on Professorships, etc., made the following report, which was
accepted:
Report of Committee on Professorships, etc.
The Committee on Professorships, etc., to whom was referred
the resolution of April i6th, 1841, on the subject of the organization
of the University, report:
That they have had the subject under consideration and have
come to the conclusion that under the present pecuniary condition
of the Institution, the appointment of two Professors and a Tutor
at moderate salaries will be all that at present can be done; and
for the purpose of producing an income from tuition and for the
public convenience, it will be expedient to require of the Professors
to be appointed, that they shall organize a Preparatory Department,
to be under the supervision and control of the Faculty; and that
for the present and until the number of students in the University
shall become so great as to render it impracticable, the Professors
shall devote such portion of their time as may be necessary 'to the
classes in the Preparatory Department. And the Committee would




MAY MEETING, 1841


I7 5;


recommend that the selection of Professors shall be made from
persons at present in the service of the University, believing that
we have already among us men quite equal to any we should be
likely to procure from abroad, under the present condition of the
Institution. The Principals of the Branches from whom the Committee recommend that the appointments shall be made, are already
aware of the pecuniary condition and circumstances of the Institu 
tion, and in the event of a contingency occurring which would
render it necessary to dispense with their services', the disappointment and inconvenience to them would be much less than to
strangers called from a distance.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, reported
that the Rev. C. 'W. Fitch had informed that Committee of
his determination to withdraw     from  the services of the
Board as Principal of the Detroit Branch at the close of the
present term, whereupon,
On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Board of Regents have entire confidence in
the attainments and qualifications of the Rev. Mr. Fitch as Principal
of their Branch in this city and entertain for him the highest
regard as a man and teacher and minister of the gospel and regret
that the embarrassed condition of the finances of the University
render those measures necessary, which have led to his separation
from us and our deprivation of his valuable services.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth,
Resolved, That a copy of the above resolution, signed by the
President and Secretary, be forwarded to Mr. Fitch.
On motion, the Board adjourned until Friday the 27th
instant.
Detroit, Friday, 27th May, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Chancellor Farnsworth, Maj. Kearsley, Rev. 0.
C. Comstock, Dr. Pitcher, Justice Morell, and Judge Wilkins.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned until the
ioth day of June next.
Detroit, June ioth, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Du!ffield, Morell, Trowbridge,
Pitcher, and Falrnsworth.
A  quorum   not appearing, adjourned till Saturday the
I9th June instant.




176


JULY llEETING, 184I


Detroit, Saturday, June g9th, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Farnsworth, Pitcher, Kearsley, Duffield, and Kundig.
A quorum not appearing, adjourned until Monday, the
2Ist instant.
Detroit, Monday, 2ISt June, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presenit: Messrs. Pitcher, Patterson, Farnsworth, and
Kiundig.
A quorum not appearing, adjourned until the 5th July
next.
Detroit, July 5th, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Farnsworth and Pitcher.
A quorum not appearing, adjourned until the 3d Quarterly Meeting at Ann Arbor, tomorrow.
THIIRD QUARTERLY MEETING FOR I84I.
Ann Arbor, July 6th, I84I.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Mr. Fletcher.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned until
Thursday the 8th instant, to meet at the Secretary's office
in Detroit.
Detroit, July 8th, I84I.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley, Drs. Pitcher and Patterson,
Rev'ds Geo. Duffield and M. Kundig, Chancellor Farnsworth, Justice Mlorell, Jno. Owen, and Wm. Draper, Esq.
On motion, Maj. Kearsley was appointed President pro.tempore.
Dr. Pitcher presented the application of Mr. Whiting,
Principal of the Niles Branch, for an appropriation of $500
to enable him to remove to his former residence.
On motion of Mr. Duffield, this application and all others
of a similar character, were referred to a Select Committee
of three, to be appointed by the Chair.




JULY MEETIING, 1841


I77


The Chair appointed Messrs. Duffield, Kundig, and
Owen, said Committee.
Dr. Pitcher also presented an application of Mr. Meigs,.assistant in the White Pigeon Branch, requesting the Board
to purchase certain books from him, which was referred to
the Committee on the Library.
The President presented a letter from Samuel Centre,
Principal of the Monroe Branch, in reference to the payment of his salary and the protest of a warrant on the
Treasurer in his favor, which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Dr. Pitcher presented the reports of the Principals of the
MAIonroe and Niles Branches. Referred to the Committee on
Branches. He also presented a communication from. Mr.
'Newberry and other Principals of different Branches in reference to notes of the Bank of Michigan, received by them
on account of their respective salaries. Referred to the Committee on Finance.
Mr. Kundig presented the application of Mr. Cavalier
for sale of paintings, etc., referred to the Committee on
Library.
Maj. Kearsley presented the account of Mr. Sanger,
Treasurer of the Board, which was referred to the Committee on Finance, with power to settle the same.
The report of the Committee on Professorships, etc., submitted on the 13th May last, being taken up, and after being' some time under consideration, on motion of Mr. Duf-field, it was,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be authorized to
establish a Branch at Ann Arbor, with power to organize collegiate.classes and to make such arrangements respecting the buildings
and grounds as they may deem necessary.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Librarian be instructed to permit all persons
to have access to the Library at Ann Arbor, at such times as he
may prescribe, but to permit no one to take any book from the
Library room.
On motion, the Board adjourned until the 22d day of
July instant.




178     SECOND JULY' M1EETING, I84 


SECOND JULY MEETING, 1841.
Detroit, 22d July, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Trowbridge, Fletcher, Mtorell, Farnsworth, Pitcher, Wilkins, Dlraper, Duffield, Kundig,
and Owen.
Maj. Kearsley was called to the Chair.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Finance, to whom
was referred 'the claim of Maj. J. Kearsley, made the following report, which, on motion of Judge Wilkins, was
laid upon the table.
Report of Coimmittee on Fhinance, on J. Kearsley's Clai1m.
The Committee on Finance of the Board of Regents of the
University of Michigan, to whom was referred the claim of Jonathan Kearsley, Esq., for negotiating the loan of $Ioo,ooo for and in
behalf of the said Board of Regents, respectfully report, that the
Committee have taken into consideration the services rendered and
the responsibilities incurred by Maj. Kearsley and without entering
into a detail thereof, the same being fully known to the Regents,
your Committee recommend the allowance of said claim at Two
hundred and fifty dollars.   C. C. TROWBRIDGI,
ZINA PITCHVR,
Detroit, June I4th, I841.          Corn. on Finance.
Dr. Pitcher, from  the same Committee, to, whom   was
referred the communication of Messrs. Whiting, Newberry,
and other Principals of Branches asking permission to return notes of the Bank of Michigan, depreciated on their
hands, and receive other money, reported in favor of receiving said notes and that new warrants issue for the amount
returned by each of them respectively, which report, on
motion of Judge Wilkins, was accepted and adopted.
Dr. Pitcher, from the same Committee, to whom was
referred the account of Mr. Sanger, for services as Treasurer, with power to settle, reported that they had settled
with Mr. Sanger and allowed his claim at one hundred and
twenty-five dollars. The report was accepted.
Also, from the same Committee, to whom was referred
the communication of Samuel Centre on subject of protested warrant, reported that no further action was necessary on the subject, which report was, on motion of Mr.
Farnsworth, accepted and adopted.




SECOND JULY JMEETING, 1841


I79


A communication was presented by the Chair, from      H.
K. Sanger, Esq., tendering his. resignation as Treasurer,
being about to remove from    the State.   Accepted.
The Chair also presented the accounts of the late Treasurer, which on motion of Mr. Trowbridge, were referred
to the Committee on Finance.
Mr. Duffield, from the Select Committee, to whom was
referred the application of Mr. Whiting, Principal of the
Niles Branch, for an appropriation of $5oo.oo, made the
following report, which, on motion of Mr. Farnsworth, was
accepted.
Report of Select Coummittee on Professor PVhiting's Claimt.
The Committee to whom was referred the communication of
Mr. Whiting, of Niles, present the following report:
The communication pleads that in accepting to take charge
of the Branch at Niles as Principal and removing his family there,
he was subjected to an expense of $250; that he removed to that
place and faithfully discharged the duties of his office in the
expectation of continuing to receive the salary that had been given
him and which was necessary for the support of his family, and
that now: that salary having been unavoidably reduced without any
fault on his part and he being obliged to remove from the'State,
he felt in his peculiar embarrassments constrained to pray the
Board to remunerate him for the expenses necessarily incurred by
his removal to and from Niles, which would not fall short of
$500, or at least to allow him $400, or the salary of one term, and
to release him on these terms at the end of the current session.
The Committee were apprised that at least another claim of
the same kind would be preferred by another of the Principals, the
Rev. Mr. Fitch, and have therefore given it and the reasons urged
by Mr. Fitch and herewith presented, all the consideration which
fidelity to their trust as Regents and honesty in their intercourse
with their fellowmen required.
On reviewing the history of these appointments the Committee
have found in the remonstrance and accompanying statements of
the Board of Regents' in their communication to the Senate of
Michigan against the passage of Bill No. 41 on the file of the
House of Representatives, presented and contained in documents
No. 33 under date of April 5th, I839, the principles distinctly
avowed which regulated the Board in their appointment of Principals, and the hopes and expectations which these gentlemen might
be supposed to entertain. "The Regents of the University," says
one of these statements,- "have made contracts, as was understood,
in good faith, with the Principals of seven Branches. These gentlemen have been induced to remove from other States and other
literary institutions where it is known they received a support for
themselves and families. It was certainly reasonable, and very
strongly implied, that their situations would be not temporary but
permanent, so long as they continued faithfully and competently
to discharge the duties incumbent upon them. These are the known




I8o


SECOAND JULY iMEETING, I841


and well established terms upon which all literary professors enter
upon their arduous and responsible avocations."
Similar remarks, showing the equity of the claim which Professors dismissed without cause have for indemnity, and showing
from the history of other Colleges that.the vacation of a Professor's
chair for the introduction of another incumbent and appropriate
Committee, are followed by the interrogatory, "Have not the
Principals of Branches, then, an equitable and perhaps legal claim
at least to meet the disbursements incident to their removal from
their places of former residence and for a reasonable time to seek
other employment?" Your Committee think that the claims of Mr.
Whiting and Mr. Fitch fall within the scope of these remarks and
are confirmed by the principles and modes of reasoning already
avowed to the Legislature by the Board this their Committee.
They are precisely.such cases as the Board seem  to have
anticipated in their remonstrance against certain legislative action,
and although it has been with regret land the result of necessity
on the Board so to change the system, as to withhold a salary
and grant but a small allowance, yet in all cases where the Principals shall not consent to remain on the new terms proposed and
are forced to seek other situations for support, the change of the
system becomes tantamount with a removal.
Your Committee therefore recommend that the Committee on
Branches be instructed in the above cases to make such compromise or pecuniary allowance as shall be judged by them to be
equitable in view of all the circumstances.
On motion of Mr. Farnsworth, the above report was referred to the Committee on Branches.
The Committee on Branches to whom was referred the
above report, reported the following resolution,
Resolved, That under the peculiar circumstances of his case,
the sum of $200 be paid to Rev. Jos. Whiting, Principal of Niles
Branch, should he leave the services of the University at the termination of the present term.
Justice Fletcher moved to amend the resolution by striking out $200 and inserting in its stead, $I50, which motion
was decided in the affirmative.
The resolution as amended was then adopted by yeas
and nays as follows: Yeas: Messrs. Kearsley, Trowbridge,
Fletcher, Morell, Farnsworth, Pitcher, Draper, Owen, and
Kundig. Nays: Judge Wilkins.
On motion of Judge Wilkins, the Board proceeded by
ballot to the election of a Treasurer of the University, in
place of H. K. Sanger, Esq. resigned. Whereupon, Alexander H. Sibley was duly elected, having received eleven votes.
On motion of Mr. Farnsworth,
Resolved, That the resolution of the Board of Regents adopted
on the 8th instant in reference to the organization of a Branch




AUGUST gMEETING, 1841


of the University at Ann Arbor be so far modified as to authorize
the organization of the University at Ann Arbor by the appointment of a Professor of Languages who shall perform the additional
duties prescribed in the resolution hereby modified.
On motion of the same, the Board proceeded to the
election of a Professor of Languages in pursuance of the
above resolution, and Mr. George P. Williams, of the Oakland Branch was appointed such Professor.
On motion, the Board adjourned until I2th day of August next.
AUGUST 'MEETING, 1841.
Detroit, August I2th, I841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Gordon, President of the Board, ex
officio, Messrs. Kearsley, Whipple, Fletcher, Draper, Trowbridge, Kundig, Owen, and Farnsworth.
Maj. Kearsley presented a communication addressed by
Baron Lederer to the Regents of the University offering to
them a box of valuable minerals for the use of the University, together with a catalogue of the same.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, unanimously, that the thanks of the Board of Regents
be presented to Baron Lederer for his valuable donation of minerals
to the Board and that the Secretary be instructed to furnish
him with a copy of this resolution.
Rev. Samuel Centre, Principal of the Monroe Branch,
appeared and stated a claim upon the Board to have refunded to him, in current funds the sum of four hundred dollars
received by him in notes of the Bank of Michigan in January last.
Mr. Whipple also presented the claim of Geo. P. Williams, late Principal of the Oakland Branch, to be allowed to
return to the Treasury three hundred and fifty dollars, Bank
of Michigan notes received by him in April last, and take a
warrant on the Treasury therefor.
On motion of Judge Wilkins both of said claims were
referred to the Committee on Finance, with instructions to
report at the next meeting of the Board.




182            AUGUST MEETING, i841
On motion of MIaj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That a Special Committee of five be appointed to
take into consideration the expediency of continuing the Branches
and the University under the existing organization, and to report
such modifications as the pecuniary resources of the Board of
Regents may require. Messrs. Kearsley, Duffield, Whipple, Farnsworth, and Trowbridge, were appointed said Committee.
MIr. Draper submitted the following preamble and resolution,, which, on his motion, were adopted.
WHEREAS, Heretofore, to wit, at the 2d Quarterly Meeting of
this Board held on Tuesday the 7th January, I840, a certain proposition submitted 'to the Board by Justice Whipple from G. O. Whittemore and others, relative to the establishment of a Branch of the
University at Pontiac, Oakland Co., was accepted by the Board on
condition that a deed of this lot and building then in occupation of
the Oakland Branch should be executed and delivered together with
certain other things done, within a time not exceeding six months
from- that time; and, WHEREAS, 'the time has elapsed and the owners of said lot and building have applied for an extension of time
in which to comply with said conditions, therefore,
Resolved, That the time for the owners of said lot and building
to comply with said conditions be extended three months from this
time.
On motion of Mr. Whipple,
Resolved, That the Committee appointed on the subject of Dr.
Cavalier's collections of paintings be discharged. from the further
consideration of that subject, on account of the state of the finances
of ithe University.
The Governor having retired, Maj. Kearsley was appointed president pro temnpore.
On motion of Mr. Farnsworth,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be requested to prepare a code of rules for the government of the University and report the same at the next meeting.
On motion of Judge Whipple,
Resolved, That the Course of Study proposed for the University by Professor Williams be referred to the Committee on Branches to report at the next meeting.
Resolved, That the following terms of admission to the Freshman Class be adopted and published by the Committee on Branches.
Applicants for admission must adduce satisfactory evidence
of good moral character and sustain an examination in Geography,
Arithmetic, Elements of Algebra, the Grammar of the English, Latin, and Greek Languages, the Exercise and Reader of Andrews,
Cornelius Nepos, Vita Washingtonii, Sallust, Cicero's Orations, Jacob's Greek Reader, and the Evangelists.




AUGUST iIMEETING, 1841


1.83


On motion of Judge Fletcher,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be. directed to erect a
wood yard and privy to the Main Building of the University and to
provide such furniture and fixtures for the said building as may be
necessary for the use of the University, and to construct a reservoir to the Main Building; and that the sum of Three hundred dollars including any balance which may remain unexpended after the
appropriation for the said building, be appropriated for the above
obj ect,
On motion, the Board adjourned until tomorrow      evening at seven o'clock,
Detroit, Friday evening, August I3th, I84I.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presentt: Messrs. Kearsley, Whipple, Wilkins, Draper,
Owen, Trowbridge, Pitcher, Farnsworth, Kundig.
On motion, Maj. Kearsley was appointed President pro
tenmpore.
The Committee on Finance, to whom was referred the
claims of Rev. Mr. Centre and Geo. P. Williams, praying
to be reimbursed for notes of Bank of Michigan, depreciated
on their hands as claimed, made the following report, which
on motion of Judge Whipple, was accepted.
Report of Colmmittee on Finance on Mr. Centre's and Mlr. Williams's Claims.
The Committee on Finance to whom. was referred the claims
of Rev. Mr. Centre and Mr. Geo. P. Williams, report,
Mr. Centre claims of the Regents ithe repayment in current
funds of the sum of four hundred dollars, part of a warrant issued
upon the Treasurer of the University, for which he received payment in the notes of the Bank of Michigan, which notes are now uncurrent. The Committee have ascertained that the warrant alluded
to was issued on the 29th December, 1840, and paid at the Bank the
same day. They are also informed that the notes of the Bank were
as valuable at that time as the common currency is now, being, convertible into coin at eight or ten per cent. discount and that during
the whole of the month of January ithe bank redeemed its notes by
drafts on New York, payable in six months upon which it allowed
two months' interest, thus reducing the actual exchange to the equivalent of four months' interest or about two per cent. The Committee do not therefore, hesitate to express the opinion that no obligation, legal or equitable, rests upon the Board of Regents in regard
to Mr. Centre's claim.
Mr. WVilliams's claim has also been investigated. It is found
that a warrant issued to him on the 2Ist of April, I84I, for three
hundred and forty-nine dollars and on the same day was left by his
agent in the Bank of Michigan, conformably to his custom, where
it was credited to him and where it remains to this day.




184  SECOND AUGUST MEETING, 1841


The Committee on careful inquiry learn that the notes of the
Bank were in a greater degree uncurrent during the month of April
than they were during the year I840 or the month of January, I84I,
being at a discount of ten per cent below other common currency
and twenty-five per cent. below specie. Nevertheless they were generally received by the merchants at par during April and up to theioth of May,at which time they became more depreciated, and they
finally ceased ito circulate as currency on the I5th of May, the
State Treasurer refusing on that day to receive them for taxes..
With this statement of facts the Committee submit the case of Mr.
\Williams to the decision of the Board.
J. KEARSLEY, 
Z. PITCHER,       Committee on Finance.
C. C. TROWBRIDGE,)
Justice Whipple moved that the above report be adopted,,
which motion was decided in the affirmative by yeas and
nays, as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Draper, Farnsworth, Owen, Pitcher, Whipple,
Kearsley, and Trowbridge.
Nays: Judge Wilkins.
On motion of Justice Whipple,
Resolved, That the said report be referred to a Select Committee of 'three to be composed of Messrs. Farnsworth, Draper, and
Owen, to enquire into the legal liability of the Board to Mr. WiIliams.
On motion, adjourned until the Igth instant.
SECOND     AUGUST MEETING, 1841.
Detroit, August Igth, I841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley, President pro tempore, Mlessrs..
Duffield, Farnsworth, Owen, Wilkins, Draper, Whipple, and
Trowbridge.
The Minutes of the last meeting having been read, on
motion of Judge Wilkins, the same were corrected as follows:
Mr. Wilkins moved to amend the resolution of Justice
Whipple, by adding the claim of Rev. Mr. Centre.
The Chair decided the motion could not be entertained,
there being no second. From this decision, Mr. Wilkins appealed and called the yeas and nays, which were as follows:
Yeas:   Messrs. Kearsley, Trowbridge, Whipple, Farns



SECOND AUGUST MEETING, 1841


r85


worth, Draper, Pitcher, and Owen, sustaining the Chair..
Nays: Mr. Wilkins.
Maj. Kearsley from the special Committee appointed on
the I2th instant, for the purpose of taking into consideration the expediency of continuing the Branches, etc., made.
the following report, which was accepted.
Report of Select Colmmittee on Expediency of Contilnuing
Branches, etc.
Resolved, That a special Committee of five be appointed to take
into consideration the expediency of continuing the Branches and
the University under the existing organization and to report such
modifications as the pecuniary resources of the Board of Regents
may require. Adopted August 2Ith, I84I.
The Committee to whom the foregoing Resolution was referred,
report, That it be recommended to the Board of Regents to suspend all pecuniary appropriations to Principals or other Instructors
in the Branches at Niles, Monroe, Detroit, and Pontiac, until
such time as the finances of the University may enable the Board
to reappropriate for said objects, provided said Branches or either
of them shall in the meantime, have complied with the terms originally prescribed in the organization of these Branches, in the conveyance of grounds and erection of buildings suitable for said purposes. In recommending all pecuniary appropriations to the Branches enumerated, your Committee feel deep regret in submitting the
foregoing result of their deliberations and subjoin the following
reasons for the consideration of the Board.
Pirst. The very limited financial resources of the Board require an immediate reduction of expenditure. This can only be
effected by the measures recommended because it has been resolvedl
by the Board to organize the parent Institution and this upon a scale
which your Committee believe cannot bear pecuniary contraction.
Second. The citizens resident in the counties where the Branches proposed to be suspended, have been heretofore organized, have
not, with the exception of Detroit, conveyed to the Regents in
trust for the use of such Branch, the grounds, nor have they erected
thereon the buildings, which said citizens covenanted to erect and
complete to the satisfaction of the Regents when 'these respective
Branches were so organized.
Third. Branches will still remain at such locations as, in view
of your Committee, will supply the wants of a large proportion of
the population of the State; Ito wit, one Branch at Tecumseh and
one at White Pigeon for the southern tier of counties of this State,
will also invite the citizens of Northern Ohio and Indiana to lend
their cooperation in the common cause of education. The Branches
at Kalamazoo and Ann Arbor have such locations as to be neither
too remote nor inconvenient of access for the middle and northern
counties. The latter would not have been organized but for the
obvious consideration that the du'ties of its instruction will devolve
upon the Professors of the University exclusively and thus no additional pecuniary appropriation will be required..In conclusion your Committee would repeat the expression of
their reluctance in recommending the present suspension of any one
Branch heretofore organized and no consideration other than the




I86     SEvCOND A4UGUST lfMEETING, I841


limited pecuniary resources of the Board could have influenced their
decision.
The measure will be most gratifying and will be doubtless
adopted at the earliest period when the income of the Regents will
warrant, to reorganize these Branches and also to establish others
in the several counties of this State. The Branches, therefore,
which may be now suspended, will have the assurance that this suspension will not be continued beyond the earliest ability of 'the Regents to revive them.
With-regard to the University proper, your Committee recommend the adoption of the following resolutions:
I. Resolved, That it appears necessary 'to modify and extend
the organization of the University by the appointment of a Professor of Mathematics.
2. Resolved, That Geo. P. Williams, A.M., be transferred (at
his own request) and he is hereby appointed Professor of Mathematics in the University of Michigan.
3. Resolved, That the Rev. Joseph Whiting, A.M., be and he
is hereby appointed Professor of Languages in the University of
Michigan.
4. Resolved, That the Professors of Languages and Mathematics in addition 'to their respective duties in the University proper,
shall also for the present, perform all the duties incident to the
Principals of the Branches of said University.
J. KEARSLEY, 
GEo. DUFFIELD,     Committee.
Detroit, Aug. Igth, 1841.  C. C. TROWBRIDGE,
On motion of Justice Whipple, the Board proceeded to
the consideration 6f the resolutions appended to said report, seriatiJn.
The first resolution being read, Justice Whipple moved
its adoption.
After much discussion, on motion of Judge Wilkins, the
Board adjourned until half past two o'clock tomorrow      afternoon.
Detroit, Friday, 2:30' P. M., Aug. 20th, I841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley, President pro telnJpore, Messrs.
Duffield, Whipple, Kundig, Owen, Wilkins, and          Trowbridge.
The Minutes of last meeting were read and approved.
The Board resumed the consideration of Resolution No.
i reported by the special Committee at the last meeting of
the Board.
After debate, Resolution No. I was adopted by yeas and
nays as follows: Yeas: Messrs. Duffield, Owen, Whipple,




SECOND AUGUST MEETING, 184I


18 7.


Kearsley, and Trowbridge.      Nays: Messrs. Kundig and
Wilkins.
Resolutions No. 2, 3, and 4 of said Committee were then
severally adopted without dissent.
On motion of Mr. Trowbridge,
Resolved, That until the further order of the Board, the salaries of the Professors now appointed be limited to the sum of five
hundred dollars each, per annum, in addition to the tuition fees in
the Branch at Ann Arbor, which latter are to be equally divided
between 'them, and that the Secretary transmit copies of these resolutions to the gentlemen appointed.
The report of the Special Committee yesterday submitted and accepted by the Board was on motion then adopted.
On motion of Justice Whipple,
Resolved, That the Professors of Mathematics and Languages
further discharge the duties of such other Professorships as this
Board or a Committee acting under their order may direct.
On motion of Mr. Trowbridge,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to apprise the Board of Visitors of the Branches now temporarily suspended, of the proceedings of the Board respecting their Branches.
A petition was presented by Attorney General Platt in
behalf of Rev. Samuel Centre in relation to a claim upon
the Board, which, on motion, was referred to Miessrs. Farnsworth, Owen and Wilkins.
On motion of Judge Wilkins,
Resolved, That the Secretary be directed to prepare an index
to the book of Proceedings of the Board and to add marginal notes
to the record.
On motion of the same,
Resolved, That the Treasurer and Secretary prepare and present to the Board at the next quarterly meeting a full and minute
account current, stating in full the sums received from all sources
and placed to the credit of the University since its organization and
the disbursements since the same period.
On motion of Justice Whipple,
Resolved, That the Building Committee be directed to insure
the buildings at Ann Arbor upon the terms offered by John Palmer.
On motion of Justice Whipple,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee of three be appointed
who shall discharge for the present the same.duties with respect to
the University that the Committee on Branches discharge with respect to the Branches.




I88


OCTOBER MfEETING, 1841


On like motion,
Resolved, That the said Committee in conjunction with the Professors already appointed report to this Board with all convenient
speed, a Code of Laws for the Government of the University.
The Chair announced the following gentlemen to constitute the Executive Committee, as contemplated in the above
resolution, viz., Messrs. Pitcher, Wilkins, and Duffield.
On motion, the Board adjourned until the 4th Quarterly
Meeting in October next.
FOURTH QUARTERLY MEETING FOR 1841.
Ann Arbor, October 5th, I84I.
The Board met pursuant to; adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Duffield, Kearsley, Draper, Kundig,
M\Vorell, and Pitcher.
A quorum not appearing, the Bioard adjourned to meet
at the office of the Secretary. in Detroit this evening at half
past seven o'clock.
Detroit, Tuesday, 7:30 P. M., Oct. 5th, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Gordon, Duffield, Draper, Kearsley,
and Pitcher.
A quorum   not appearing, adjourned until tomorrow
evening.
Detroit, Wednesday evening, Oct. 6th, I841.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher, and Gordon.
A quorum not appearing, adjourned until tomorrow evening.
Detroit, Thursday evening, Oct. 7th, I841.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher, Kundig, Wilkins,
and Morell.
A quorum not apeparing, adjourned until the 23d instant.
Detroit, October 23d, I84I.
The Board met pursuant to, adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley, Persident pro tempore, MIessrs.
Pitcher, Farnsworth, Duffield, Kundig, Owen, and Mr. Geo.
Goodman.




,NO0VEIMBER M EETIVNG, 1841


I89


The Minutes of the 20th August were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher from the Committee on Branches, reported
that the Committee had received from the Treasurer of the
Tecumseh Branch $70 in notes of the Bank of Michigan,
which had been received for tuition at that Branch previous
to the failure of the Bank, and on motion of Mr. Farnsworth, it was ordered that the Committee on Branches be
instructed to deposit said amount with the Treasurer of the
Board and take his receipt for the same.
Dr. Pitcher presented a memorial from Matthew MAeigs,
claiming his appointment as Principal of the Detroit Branch,
in pursuance of an understanding and engagement with the
Committee on Branches and praying the re-appropriation of
the sum of $500 toward the salary of himself as Principal
of said Branch.
On motion, the memorial was referred to the Committee
on Branches.
Dr. Pitcher also presented an account of Peter J. Desnoyers for rent of room in his building in this city for use
of Dr. Houghton for Geological and Natural History specimens belonging to the University. Referred to the Auditing Committee.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Messrs. Robt. Stuart, Chas.
Moran, B. F. H. Witherell, Geo. Dawson, and Alex. D.
Fraser, were appointed a Board of Visitors for the Detroit
Branch, provided such appointment shall not be considered
as a recognition of the claim' of Mr. Meigs.
On motion, the Board adjourned until the 6th November next.
NOVEMBER MEETING, 1841.
Detroit, November 6th, 184I.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
P'resent: Messrs. Farnsworth, Owen, Morell, and Pitcher.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned until the
13th instant.




I9o


N\O VEMBER JIMEETINrG, 184I


Detroit, November i3th, 1841.
The Board met pursuant to, adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley, President pro tem1po re, Messrs.
Morell, Pitcher, Duffield, Kundig, Trowbridge, and Owen.
The Minutes of the last two meetings were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher from    the majority of the Committee on
Branches to whom    was referred the memorial of Mr. M.
Meigs, claiming his appointment as Principal of the Detroit
Branch and an appropriation of $5oo towards his salary as
such Principal, made the following report (Maj. Kearsley
as the minority of the Committee dissenting) which was accepted.
Report of Coztmnittee oni Branches Respecting AMr. lMeigs's
Applicatio n.
The Committee on Branches, to whom was referred!the communication of Mr. M. Meigs, present the following report:
It appears that Mr. Meigs was appointed and invited to take
charge of the Branch in the City of Detroit, as Principal, before
the actual expiration of the term of Mr. Fitch, late Principal; that
he had accepted the appointment, visited the place, and made his
arrangements before ever the question of suspending the appropriation to this or any other particular Branch was agitated in or out
of the Board, as far as known 'to the Committee; and that, having
accepted the appointment on the basis of the $500 appropriation to
each Branch, he had a just claim to be accounted the Principal of
the Branch of Detroit. Should the Regents think that the suspension of appropriations to the Branch cannot be reconsidered, the
Committee think that he has a just claim to the full amount of the
sum, which he had been led to expect when he accepted the invitation, would be appropriated for the support of this Branch.
Z. PITCHEIR,
GEo. DurrILD,
Committee on Branches.
The undersigned, one of the Committee on Branches, dissents
as to the justness of the claim of Mr. Meigs to the full amount as
above alleged.                       J. KEARSLY.
Judge Morell moved that the report of the majority of
the Committee be adopted, and on his motion the further
consideration of the report was postponed until the next
meeting of the Board.
A communication was received from Mr. E. Bingham, on
account of Rev. N. M. Wells, late Assistant in the Niles
Branch, praying the Board to receive back from Mr. Wells
$151.66 received by him in notes of the Bank of Michigan
for services as such Assistant and pay him in money current




NOVEIVIMBER MEETING, 1841


I9I


at this time. The consideration of the communication was,
on motion, postponed until the next meeting of the Board.
Mr. Trowbridge from the Committee on Finance, made
the following report, the consideration of which was, on his
motion, postponed until the next meeting of the Board.
Report of the Committee on Finlance on the Claimz of
Isaac Thompson.
The undersigned, Committee on Finance, to whom was referred
the claim of Isaac Thompson, Architect, as Superintendent of the
University Buildings at Ann Arbor, have had the same under consideration and have the honor to report, that on the 'I4th day of
February, 1839, the said Thompson entered into a contract with the
Building Committee in which he stipulated in consideration of the
salary therein agreed upon to render his services as Superintendent
of four dwelling houses to be erected at Ann Arbor and to make
working drawings for the same.
The said Committee agreed to pay the said Thompson for his
services at the rate of $Iooo per annum, payable quarterly and the
said contract contains the following clause, "It is mutually agreed
that this contract may be determined at any time after the expiration of six months by either party giving three months notice of
such intention."
The Committee find that on the I3th day of July, 1839, the
Regents of the University adopted a resolution declaring the said
contract annulled and that on the ioth day of August, 1839, Mr.
Thompson received from the Regents the sum of $5oo for six
months' services up to the 14th August.
Due notice was given to Mr. Thompson of the passage of said
resolution about the time of its adoption and on or about the tenth
of August Mr. Thompson left the State. Mr. Thompson now claims
pay for three months, being the period in said contract specified,
"after the expiration of six months."
The Committee with the foregoing statement of facts, beg leave
to refer the subject to the decision of the Board.
J. KFARSLIY,
C. C. TROWBRIDGE,
Z. PITCHER,
Committee on Finance.
Dr. Pitcher from the Auditing Committee, to whom was
referred the claim of Peter J. Desnoyers, reported in favor
of the allowance of a part of his claim, to ztit, the rent of
the long room, which report was, on motion of MTr. Trowbridge, accepted and adopted.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher:
Resolved, That the Professor of Geology and Mineralogy be
authorized to furnish cases for the Lederer Minerals belonging to
the University.
The report of the Committee on Finance on the claim of
Maj. Kearsley for services in negotiating the $Ioo,ooo loan,




I92


NO 0VEMBER MEETING, 1841


made and laid upon the table on the 22nd day of July last,
was, on motion of Mr. Trowbridge, taken up and on his motion, the consideration of said claim was postponed until the
next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher:
Resolved, That the respective standing Committees of the Board
be requested to make their Annual Reports at the next meeting of
the Board, preparatory to the general Annual Report of the Board
to the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
On motion, the Board adjourned until the 27th instant.
Detroit, November 27th, 184I.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Maj. Kearsley, President pro tenmpore, Messrs.
Duffield, Wilkins, Kundig, Owen, Pitcher, Trowbridge, and
Farnsworth.
Dr. Pitcher from the Committee on Branches, made the
following report, which, on his motion, was accepted and
adopted.
Annual Report of Coimmittee on Branches for 1841.
The Committee on Branches in compliance with a resolution
of the Board, submit the following Report:
At the close of the last academic year, there were in operation
seven Branches of the University, one at Pontiac, one at Monroe,
one at Detroit, one at Kalamazoo, one at Niles, one at Tecumseh,:one at White Pigeon.
At these Branches there were engaged seven Principals and
thirteen assistant teachers, and there were in attendance one hundred and forty-seven male and one hundred female pupils.
Circumstances known to the Board affecting the financial prosperity of the University induced the Regents at an early period, after
closing their Annual Report for S840, to reduce the appropriations
for the support of the Branches to $500 a year for each, in addition
to the amount that might be received for tuition. The change being
prospective, did not go fully into effect until the close of the summer term in August, when the Rev. Professor Fitch and the Rev.
Mr. Centre, each the Principal of a Branch, left the service of the
Board.
Your Committee on being directed by the Board to establish
a Branch at Ann Arbor and to organize Collegiate Classes under
the direction of the Principal of the Branch, transferred to that
post Mr. G. P. Williams, from the charge of the Branch at Pontiac
on whom the Board also conferred the appointment of Professor
of Languages. The Committee in conformity to instructions, gave
public notice of the action of the Board, of the appointment of
Mr. Williams as Principal and Professor and of the qualifications
of applicants for admission to the Freshman class, which are as
follows:




NOVEMBERR MJEETING, 1841                     193
Applicants for admission must adduce satisfactory evidence of
good moral character, and. sustain an examination in Geography,
Arithmetic, the Elements of Algebra, the Grammar of the English,
Greek, and Latin Languages, the Exercise and Reader of Andrews,
Cornelius Nepos, Vita Washingto7ii, Sallust, Cicero's Orations, Jacobs' Greek Reader, and the Evaiigelists.
The transfer of Mr. Williams to Ann Arbor and the resignation of Messrs. Fitch and Centre, left the Branches at Pontiac,
Detroit, and! Monroe to be reorganized, which was done by appointing Rev. Mr. Meigs, an Assistant at White Pigeon, to the charge
of the Branch at Detroit, the latter (Detroit) without the aid of
an appropriation from the Board of Regents, and Mr. S. Hough to
that of Monroe where he rendered valuable services as the Assistant
of Mr. Centre. When the Board at its session in August withdrew
the appropriations to the Principals of Branches at Niles, Monroe,
Pontiac, and Detroit, Mr. Hough and the Rev. Mr. Whiting resigned their appointments as Principals of the Branch at Monroe
and at Niles. These two, as well as the Branch at Pontiac, are, for
the present, suspended. The Branches at Tecumseh, White Pigeon,
and Kalamazoo remain in successful operation, the first under the
direction of Andrew' Harvie, has forty-three pupils in attendance;
the second under the charge of Rev. S. Newberry has thirty-seven
pupils, and the third, over whom the Rev. Wim. Dutton presides,
has forty-six male and thirty-seven female pupils.
Under existing arrangements, the Principals of Branches are
authorized to provide their own Assistants, the Principals only
holding their appointment from the Board. This remark explains
in part the great reduction in the number of teachers employed by
the Board. During the year a Branch has been located at Romeo
in the County of Macomb.
The following table exhibits the state of the Branches at the
present time:
NO. or     DEPT.   ENGLISH
PRINCIPAL            PUPILS LANGUAGES     DEPT.
Detroit-Rev. M. Meigs.............. 24        24       15
Kalamazoo-Rev. Wm. Dutton..:..... 83         28       78
White Pigeon-Rev. S. Newberry..... 37          13       31
Tecumseh-Mr. A. Harvie........... 43          27       30
Ann Arbor Professors Williams and
Whiting.............. 23       2         2
Totals..........   2IO      II3       I561
All which is respectfully submitted.
Z. PITCHER,
J. KEARSLEY,
GEo. DUFIELD,
Nov. 27th, I84I.                Committee on Branches.
MIr. Duffield, from  the Executive Committee, made the
following report, which on motion of Dr. Pitcher, was accepted and adopted:
Report of Executive Commsittee.
The Executive Committee was organized on the I3th of August,
184I, and consists of Messrs. Pitcher, Wilkins, and Duffield. The
1 It is apparent that a number of students were registered in two
departments.




I94


TNOVEMBER MEETING, 1841


duties required' of them are in general the same in reference to the
Main Institution as the Committee on Branches discharge toward
the Branches.
It was made their special duty, in concert with the Professors,
to prepare a Code of Laws for the Government of the University.
The Faculty was organized by the Board on the I3th day of
August, 1841, by the appointment of a Professor of Languages and
a Professor of Mathematics, who are required to organize and instruct the collegiate classes to the extent the number of students
for the present may demand their services.
They are also required to organize and conduct a preparatory
school at Ann Arbor and to discharge towards it the duties required
of the Principals of Branches.
The Committee visited Ann Arbor, and having conferred and
corresponded with the Faculty, it was judged best to avail themselves of the advantage of experience and not for the present to
draft any very extensive Code of Laws, such as may be required
when the University becomes more extended and comprises a greater
number of classes and students. A few general laws, capable of
application by the Faculty to all the exigencies of the government
of the Institution in its incipient condition, were thought to be preferable in every respect to more detailed and minute legislation prospectively to meet contingencies which might not be realized and
which experiences, ere they should arise, would require to be modified.
Accordingly the Code of Laws which has been adopted for the
present is the same with that adopted and in use for the Branches,
as far as their general provisions are applicable to the Main Institution.
Much in the early stage of the Institution will depend on the
wisdom and fidelity, the prudence and zeal, the vigilance and energy, the industry and discernment, of the Faculty. It has therefore been judged best to define the general features of the government, only as a guide to them till future experience may qualify
them and the guardians of the Institution, the better to adapt to the
state of things in the University of Michigan such rules and regulations as are found useful in other Institutions. Under these impressions the schedule of studies for the Collegiate Classes has not been
sketched farther than for the two inferior, viz., the Freshman and
Sophomore, which are all that have been organized. The following are the terms of admission to the Freshman class and the
Studies of that and the Sophomore classes.
TERMS OF ADMISSION.
Candidates for admission to the Freshman class are examined
in Arithmetic, the elements of Algebra, Geography, Cicero's Orations, Sallust, Virgil, Jacobs' Greek Reader, the Four Gospels, and
Latin and Greek prosody, and are required to furnish satisfactory
testimonials of good moral character.
Studies of the Freshman Class.
Jameison's Rhetoric, DeLacy's General Gramm1ar, Livy, Horace..
Delloway's Roman Antiquities, Prosody and Exercises in writing
Latin, Homer's Iliad, Herodotus, Thucydides, Xenophon, Lysias,




TNOVEMBER MEETING, 1841


I95


Isocrates, Demosthenes, Cleveland's Grecian Antiquities and Exercises in writing Greek, Bourdon's Algebra, Legendre's Geome1try,
Naltural History.
Studies of the Sophomore Class.
Tacitus' History, Germania, and Life of Agricola, Terence,
Suetonius, Greek Philosophers, Homer's Odyssey, Application of
Algebra to Geometry, Trigonometry, Mensuration, Davies' Analytical Geometry anld Descriptive Geometry, Davies' Surveyinig, Whately's Logic and Rhetoric.
The number of students in the Main and Preparatory Institutions and the present condition of both are not accurately known,
as the Committee are waiting for the report of the Faculty.
The prospects of the University are flattering and the Committee think that the short experience since the opening of both has
fully justified the steps which the Board took for the opening of
the Main Institution and organizing a Preparatory Department at
Ann Arbor. All which is respectfully submitted.
Nov. 27th, 1841.
Z. PITCHER,
Ross WILKINS,
GEo. DUFIELD,
Executive Committee.
Mr. Duffield from the Committee on the Library, made
the following report, which on his motion was accepted and
adopted.
The Committee on the Library, report, that the books of which
a catalogue has been printed, belonging to the University, have been
carefully preserved in temporary cases, prepared for them, in one
of the houses for Professors. Since the organization of the Faculty, it has been judged best that measures should be taken for the
purpose of giving the Institution the advantages appropriately accruing to it from the possession of the Library. Rules and regulations
have therefore been prepared, with the co-operation and concurrence
of the Faculty and Librarian, for the purpose of rendering those
advantages available. The following are the regulations which for
the present have been adopted:
Regulations for the Library.
I. The Librarian or his Assistant shall keep the key of the
Library and shall permit none but the Regents of the University
and members of the Faculty to enter the Library except in his
company.
2. The Librarian shall keep a catalogue of the books of the
Library and an account of all books borrowed therefrom, including
the name of the borrower and the time of delivery of the book.
3. The Library shall be open for the delivery of books once a
week on such day and hours as the Librarian may appoint when
all the students of the University may enjoy its privileges under the
restrictions which follow.
4. No book shall be loaned to students except such as may
have been d'istinctly specified by the Faculty as suitable for such
use.
5. No student shall receive more than two volumes at a time
nor retain a volume longer than two weeks, without renewal, nor




I96


NA OVTEMIBER MlEETTING, I84z


lend, nor carry it out of his room except to return it to the Library.
A volume may be renewed only once except by special permission of
a Professor.
6. A student not returning a volume in his possession within
two weeks, shall incur a penalty of twenty-five cents and an additional penalty of fifty cents for every additional week of delinquency, which penalty shall be paid to the Librarian before such student shall have any further use of the Library.
7. Borrowers of books from the Library are forbidden to
write or mark in them or to turn down a leaf.
8. All damages done to books shall be estimated by the Librarian and shall be promptly paid. If a volume shall be lost or
destroyed, the borrower shall pay for the whole set or replace it.
9. Such books as by reason of their great value or scarcity
could not easily be replaced, shall not be loaned but shall be kept
for consultation in the Library.
Io. No person visiting the Library shall be allowed to take
down or put up a volume without permission of the Librarian or
his assistant.
II. Any violation of these rules will be punishable by fine or
exclusion from the use of the Library.
It has been thought altogether impracticable and inappropriate
to the use and design of the College Library that it should be rendered a circulating Library for the benefit of the surrounding population, and therefore books are not to be loaned but as above prescribed. Yet it is a matter under consideration by the Committee
whether it would not be proper to instruct the Faculty and Librarian to afford access to the Library during the presence of the
Librarian at such fixed time to be designated by him, to such as
may desire to consult any of the authors, it being understood that
no work whatever is to be carried out of the Library by such visitants or readers.  Respectfully submitted,
GQo. DUFrIELD,
Z. PITCHER,
Nov. 27th, I841.                 Committee on Library.
Mr. Tro:wbridge, from the Committee on Finance, made
the following report, which, o'n motion of Dr. Pitcher, was
accepted and adopted.
Report of Conmminttee oin Finance.
The Committee on Finance, of the University of Michigan, in
obedience to the resolution of the Board of Regents, passed on the
I3th instant, make the following Report,
In the report of the Committee on the State of
the University for the year I840, it is stated
that the cash on hand in the Bank of Michigan on the 3Ist of December of that year
was....................................        $26,85I.00
The true balance in the Treasury on that day
was as follows:
Balance due by the Bank on State bond account............................ $5,911.82
To the credit of Treasurer in Bank...........  6,402.9I 22,314.73


Showing a difference of..................


$4,536.2.7




NAO TEMBER MEETING, 1841                      I97
Which was occasioned by assuming as cash on
hand certain bonds and mortgages taken
in payment from the Michigan State Bank
but  not  collected........................  $4,482.30
And other small errors appearing in the report   53-97  4,536.27
$22,314.73
To this balance in the Treasury on the Ist Jan.,
1841, there is to be added the following receipts during the year.
Balance in Treasury brought up...............        $22,314.73
For interest received from the Bank of Michigan on State Bond account............    $392.55
and.....................................  30.4I    422.99
For amount of warrant upon the state Treasurer being on account of interest collected
in 1840 on University Lands sold.........          2,263.6I
The notes of the Bank of Michigan returned
to the Treasurer under a resolution of the
Board...................................            327.00
$25,328.33
The expenditures during the year from Jan. Ist        $25,328
to the 27th inclusive, as stated in the Secretary's books are as follows:
For salaries of Professors, Principals, and
teachers.................................  $7,245.49
For University buildings and grounds at Ann
Arbor...................................  5,063.00
For Bal. to Baron Lederer for Cabinet of Minerals....................................,75.07
For Interest on State Bonds, Exchange, etc....  3,300.00
For Insurance on buildings and Library.......  133.00
For Desks, stoves, cisterns, etc., etc., at University..................................   400.00
For Library book cases, salary of Librarian, etc.  I96.48
For Salaries of Secretary and Treasurer.......  235.00
For Printing, travelling expenses of Regents,
and other incidental expenses............  183.75
For Old rent account of Dr. Houghton's collection  in  Nat. History, etc., etc...........  I79.IS
For Bank of Michigan for short change on two
warrants  in  I840.........................  1.37
$I8,II2.34
FroIn which is to be deducted the following
warrants outstanding.
No. 203    S.  Centre................... $43333
No. 229  Same....................... 433.33
No. 245  H. Lum.....................  413.00
No. 247 P. J. Desnoyers............. I79.18 $I,458.84 $I6,653.50
Leaving a balance in their Treasury of....        $8,674.83
consisting of,
Balance to credit of Treasurer in Bank of
Michigan..............................: $6,402.91




c38


A NOVEl~MBER MEETINAG, 1841


Balance in hands of Treasurer in State scrip..  1,721.95
Balance in hands of Treasurer in notes, etc. of
of Bank  of Michigan.....................  549.97  $8,674.83
Of the sum in the Treasury, the only available portion is the
item of $I,721.95, in Michigan State Scrip, nominally equal in
amount to the outstanding warrants. The Bank of Michigan, having failed, is now closing its concerns. The Committee have not
been able to obtain payment of the balance due by that institution,
but have taken care to put the amount upon interest by demanding payment thereof.
The Bonds and Mortgages taken in payment from the Michigan
State Bank have not been collected. The Committee have heretofore called the attention of the Regents to these Bonds, which are
supposed to be good, and they now renew their recommendation
that they be placed in the hands of an attorney for collection.
From this exhibit it appears that when the outstanding warrants shall have been paid, the available means in the Treasury will
be nearly exhausted. This is a crisis in the affairs of the University
to which your Committee have looked forward with much anxiety.
It has been apparent for the last two years that the principal source
of income, that indeed upon which all the hopes of the Institution
were founded, has, from the operation of causes known -to the
Board of Regents, been rapidly diminishing and at length has almost entirely ceased. The Committee allude to the interest upon
University Lands sold.
By the Report of the Superintendent of Public Instruction of the 30th December, 1840, it appears that
the sales of University lands up to the Ist of'that
month amounted to II,965 4I/I00 acres for the sum
of........................................ $I93,584.0
The interest due upon this sum for the year ending Dec.
Ist,  1841,  is.......................................  3,550.88
The arrearages of interest due on the Ist Dec., 1840, were I9,663.69
M aking.......................................  $33,214.57
Of this immense sum not one farthing has reached the Treasury of the University during the year 1841. The Committee are informed by the Superintendent of Public Instruction that very little
has been collected by him during the present year for interest on
University Lands.
These facts show conclusively the absolute necessity of the
measures recently adopted by the Board of Regents for reducing the
current expenses of the University and Branches.
The annual expenditures under existing regulations may be estimated as follows:
For the pay of two Professors in the University in addition to the tuition fees of the primary school........ $,000.00
For the salaries of the Principals of the Branches at Tecumseh, White Pigeon, and Kalamazoo in addition to
tuition   fees........................................  1,500.00
For the salaries of Secretary, Librarian, and Treasurer..  400.00
For Insurance on University buildings..............     74.00
For Interest on State Bonds...........................  6,000.00
For Incidental expenses...............................   50o.o0
$9,224.00




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1841


I99


The resources of the Board, without reference to interest upon
University Lands sold during the year I84I, the amount of which
is unknown to your Committee are to be derived from the following items.
-Arrearages of interest on land's Ist December, I84I...... $33,214.57
Interest on lands sold prior to Ist Dec., I840, for the year
1842...............................................  I3,550.88
Balance due by the Bank of Michigan..................  6,402.91
Notes and bonds received of Michigan State Bank.......  4,482.30
Notes and certificates of the Bank of Michigan..........  559.97
$58,210.63
How much of this sum can be collected during the year 1842,
your Committee will not venture Ito estimate. So much as is received on account of interest on University Lands will no doubt
ble paid in State Scrip as all debtors to the State have a right by
law to do. But it is feared that even this resource will be exceedingly limited. In the report of the late Superintendent of Public
Instruction for the year 1840 (p. 12) it is stated that, "Many purchasers of Universiity and school lands appear to;have come to the
conclusion to make no further payments until the price is reduced."
What is here predicted of some of the purchasers is no doubt indic-;ative of a dissatisfaction common to all who purchased at the high
prices of 1837 and 1838.
But from the peculiar organization of the Board of Regents,
that body is not only without power to provide a remedy, but destitute of the means of ascertaining the precise nature and extent of
the evil.
The Committee therefore content themselves with bringing the
fact to the notice of the Board, submitting to their judgment the.expediency of an effort to produce relief to the Treasury by relieving its debtors from -a portion of the burthen resulting from the
extravagances of past years. This can only be done by Legislative:action. That, however, may possibly be promoted by proper repre-.sentation from the Regents. The University Lands remaining unsold amount to about Thirty-six thousand acres.
Your Committee annex to this report an abstract of the expenditures of the past year together with a general abstract of all re-.ceipts and disbursements since the organization of the University.
Respectfully submitted,
J. KEARSLEY,
C. C. TROWBRIDGE,
Z. PITCHER,
Detroit, Nov. 27th, 1841.        Committee on Finance.
General abstract of all the expenditures made by the Board of
Regents of the University of Michigan during the year I841 from
Jan. ISt to Nov. 27th, inclusive.
I84I
Jan. 2-S. Newberry, Salary as Principal of White Pigeon
Branch, 3d term in 1840.......................$  400.00
Jan. 6-B. L. Baxter, Salary as assistant teacher in
Branch at Tecumseh, I5th Sept. to 24th Oct.,
I840.........................................  I33.33
Jan. 6-F. J. Higginson, Travelling expenses as Regent
attending two quarterly meetings at Ann Arbor
and  Detroit.................................  35.00




200


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1841


Jan. 8-N. M. Wells, Salary as Assistant, Niles Branch,
I   term.......................................  I66.66
Jan. 9-Daniel Hudson, Travelling expenses as Regent
attending quarterly meeting at Detroit.......    19.25
Jan. 9-W\. S. Lee, 7 days services as Clerk to Committee...............................................  4.00
Jan. 23 Wim. Dutton, Salary as assistant teacher, Tecumseh,  I  term..........................        133.33
Feb. 4-Dawson & Bates, Advertising and printing reports......................................      43.50
Feb. 22-C. W. Fitch, Salary as Principal, Detroit Branch,
I  term.......................................  375.00
Mar. 3-A. Ten Eyck, Salary as Secretary to Board, I
quarter......................................  50.00
Mar. 4-Granger & Gilbert, On account of contract for
lathing Main Building at Ann Arbor..........     I50.00
Mar. I3-A. S. Bagg, Printing blanks for use of Board..      4.00
Mar. 13-J. W. Brown, Regent, Travelling expenses attending quarterly meeting...................  I2.00
Mar. I3-Z. Pitcher, G. Morell, and. others, Travelling expenses attending quarterly meeting...........    I2.00
Mar. 23-Haspier Lum, On account of Main University
Building....................................................  I,000.00
Mar. 29-M. Meigs, In part payt. salary as teacher at
W hite  Pigeon......................................  50.00
Apr. 9-Jos. Whiting, In part payt. salary as Principal,
N iles  Branch.................................  130.00
Apr. 13-Andw. Harvie, Bal. salary as Principal at Tecum seh,  I  term............................  274.00
Apr. 17-Regents of University, Regents' travelling expenses to attend quarterly meeting of Board at
Ann  A rbor...................................   44.00
Apr. 20-Sam'l Centre, Salary as Principal at Monroe,
I  term......................................  433.33
Apr. 20-Sabine Hough, In advance of salary as Assistant
at  M onroe..................................   72.50
Apr. 22-Geo. P. Williams, Salary as Principal at Pontiac,
I term...                                       349.00
I  term.....................................  349.o 0
Apr. 22-N. M. Wells, Salary as Assistant at Niles, I term  I51.66
Apr. 24-Wm. Dutton, Salary as Principal at Kalamazoo,
I  term.................................................  199.99
Apr. 26-0. Z. Taylor, Expenses coming from     Auburn,
N. Y., and  returning.........................  60.oo
Apr. 27-M. Meigs, Salary as Assistant at White Pigeon,
i   term......................................   200.00
May i-Sam'l Newberry, Salary as Principal at White
Pigeon, I   term...............................  300.00
May   4-Jos. Whiting, Bal. of Salary, Principal at Niles,
I   term...............................................   200.00
May I3-W. J. Baxter, Salary as Assistant at Tecumseh,
i   term......................................  I33-33
May i8-H. Lum, On account of Main Univ. Building...     I,000.00
May 22-C. W. Fitch, Salary as Principal at Detroit, I
term........................................  328.00
May 24-H. Lum, On account of Univ. Building........,800.00




TNOVEMBER M/EETINTG, 1841                     201
May 29-G. P. Williams, Salary as Principal at Pontiac,
I term.......................................  300.00
June I8-Interest on State Bonds and Exchange........    3,300.00
June I8-Baron Lederer, Bond for bal. due on minerals..   1,175.07
July Io-H. Lum, On account of fences, wood houses, etc.
at Ann Arbor..............................      500.00
July Io-H. K. Sanger, Salary as Treasurer of the Board    I25.00
July 24-M. Meigs, Bal. due on salary as Assistant at
White Pigeon...............................     360.00
July 24-Andw. Harvie, Part of salary as Principal at
Tecumseh, i term...........................    150.00
Aug. 9-Sabine Hough, In part of salary as Assistant at
M onroe.....................................   I00.00
Aug. io-Samuel Centre, Salary as Principal at Monroe,
I term......................................   433.33
Aug. I4-Andw. Harvie, Bal. of salary as Principal at
Tecumseh, I term.....................    173.00
Aug. I4-G. P. Williams, Bal. of salary as Principal at
Pontiac, I term.............................    57.00
Aug. I4-Sam'l Newberry, Salary as Principal at White
Pigeon......................................   348.60
Aug. I9-Same, Advance on account of salary.........      250.00
Aug. 9 Jos. Whiting, Bal. of salary as Principal at Niles  224.45
Aug. 2I-Wm. Dutton, Salary as Principal at Kalamazoo,
I term.                                          I33.33
Aug. 24-Jos. Whiting, One term salary as Professor in
the University at Ann Arbor in advance......    I66.66
Aug. 27-Miss Chittenden, Bal. of Salary as teacher.....    25.00
Aug. 31-H. Lum, Insurance of Univ. buildings.........      I33.00
Aug. 3I-H. Lum, On account of stoves, desks, cistern,
etc., etc., at Main Univ. building at Ann Arbor  400.00
Aug. 3I-H. Lum, On account of appropriation for Main
Building......................................  200.00
Aug. 3I-H. Lum, Book cases for Library, pd. Librarian's
salary, etc.................................   I96.48
Aug. 31-W. Baxter, Bal. of salary, Tecurseh Branch..       208.33
Sept. II-N. M. Wells, Bal. due on salary as teacher at
N iles......................................  Io I.66
Sept. 23-A. Ten Eyck, Salary as Secretary Board of Regents.......................................    60.oo
Oct. I-H. Lum, Bal. due him     as salary for superintending buildings at Ann Arbor, costs of fixtures,  etc....................................  413.00
Oct. I-G. P. Williams, Salary as Professor, one quarter    I25.00
Nov. 22-Peter J. Desnoyers, Rent of room in 1839 and
1840 for use of State Geologist in preparing and
preserving specimens of Nat. History for University......................................  179. I8
$I8, II.97
General abstract of receipts and expenditures on account of the
University of Michigan from the 2d of December, I837, to the 27th
November, 1841, exclusive of the sum of $5,454.7I received from
the Trustees of the former University of Michigan and paid over
to the Superintendent of Public Instruction to be loaned out by
him according to Law.




:202


iNOVEM/BER MIEETING, 1841


Receipts.
IFrom the State of Michigan IOO bonds of the State on
loan bearing interest at six per cent. per annum $Ioo,ooo.oo
From the Bank of Michigan, premium on said bonds sold
to  said  bank..................................  6,38.50
From the Bank of Michigan, interest on the deposit of the
proceeds  of said  bonds.......................  9,636.I6
From the Treasurer of the State, interest on University
Lands sold..................................  I8,099.65
From Bank of Michigan notes returned to the Treasury..    327.00
$I34,IO..3I
Exp enditures.
'The salaries of Professors, Principals, and
teachers........................... $33,483.95
For Library, Cabinet of Minerals, etc.......... II,I48.97
For Main University Building, four Professors'
houses, enclosing grounds, digging
wells, making cisterns, out-houses,
etc.,  etc............................  55,624.4I
For interest paid on State Bonds.............. I8,580.25
For Insurance on buildings..................   250.00
For clerk hire, stationery, printing, agents, locating Branches, salaries of Secretary, Librarian, and Treasurer, and
other incidental expenses...........  3,323.85
$I22,4II.43 I34,101.3I
From which deduct outstanding warrants.....    1,458.84 120,952.59
Balance on hand.............................        $ I3,I48.72
Amount in the Treasury.............$8,674.83
Notes and Bonds of Michigan State
Bank...................... 4,482.30          13,157.13
Excess as reported by Finance Committee i6th
December,  I839....................            $8.4I
Detroit, Nov. 27th, 1841.
J. KEARSLY,
C. C. TROWBRIDGE,
ZINA PITCHER,
Committee on Finance.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Librarian be authorized to remove the Library to one of the large rooms in the Main Building.
Resolved, That the Secretary be directed to furnish Mr. Colclazer, the Librarian, with a copy of the foregoing resolution and
also with a copy of the Report of the Library Committee, adopted
this evening.
Resolved, That the Building Committee be instructed to obtain
a transfer of the Insurance on the Library when the same shall have
been removed to the Main Building.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1841


203


The unfinished business of the last meeting having been
taken up and the Report of the Committee on Branches in
reference to the claim of Mr. M. Meigs, made at the last
meeting, being under consideration, Mr. Duffield moved
that the report be laid upon the table and that the whole
matter be referred to a Special Committee of two to confer
with Mr. Meigs on the subject of his claim and report their
proceedings at a subsequent meeting of the Board, which
motion was decided in the affirmative.
The Chair announced the following as said Committee,
viz., Messrs. Kundig and Wilkins.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Rev. Mr. Duffield, the Rev. Mr. Kundig, and
Mr. Owen constitute a Committee to prepare the Annual Report of
the Board to the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
Dr. Pitcher laid upon the table the following resolution:
Resolved, That Judge Wilkins, Chancellor Farnsworth, and Mr.
Trowbridge be a Committee to report such amendments to the
Organic Law of the University as they may deem necessary to secure a more efficient administration of the trust confided to the
Board of Regents.
On motion of Judge Wilkins, the Board adjourned until
Saturday evening next, the 4th December, 1841.
DECEMTBER MEETING, I841.
Detroit, December 4th, 184I.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher, Duffield, Wilkins,
and Owen.
A quorum not appearing, adjourned till Saturday, the
IIth December instant.
Detroit, December  th, 1841.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presen'lt: Messrs. Pitcher, Farnsworth, Kundig, and
Owen.
A quorum not appearing, adjourned until Saturday, i8th
instant.




204


DECEM/BER M EETIANG, i 84


Detroit, December I8th, 1841.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Trowbridge, Owen, Pitcher,
and Farnsworth.
A quorum not appearing, adjourned until Monday, 20th
instant.
Detroit, December 20th, I84I.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Duffield, Trow'bridge, Pitcher, Farnsworth, Wilkins, and Owen.
On motion, Maj. Kearsley was appointed President pro
temp ore.
Proceedings of the Board of 27th Nov. ultimo were read
and approved.
Dr. Pitcher from the Committee on Branches presented
the reports of the Principals of the Kalamazoo, \aVhite
Pigeon, Tecumseh, and Detroit Branches and of the Preparatory Department or Branch of the University at Ann
Arlbor, which were ordered to be placed upon the files of
the Board.
Mr. Duffield, from  the Committee appointed to make
the Annual Report of the Board for the present year, made
the following report, which on motion of Dr. Pitcher, was
accepted and adopted:
REPORT OF THE BOARD OF REGENTS.
To THEI SUPERINT'NDIEN'T o0 PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
Sir:The undersigned, in pursuance of a Resolution of the Board
of Regents of the University of Michigan, passed on the 27th of
November ultimo, and, on their behalf, present to you their fourth
Annual Report.
The attention of the Board, which, in their last Report it was
stated had been successfully directed to the Branches and to the diffusion, through them, of the means of much higher instruction than
could be had in Primary Schools and Private Academies, had also
been sedulously bestowed on the necessary means and preparation
for the organization of a Faculty and the opening of the University.
The views by which the Board were influenced in relation to the
Branches, the success attending them, and the measures adopted for
the procurement of a Library, a Mineralogical Cabinet, and specimens in Botany and Zoology, for the erection of Professors' houses
and the Main Building, and for the inclosure of the College Grounds
at Ann Arbor, have already been detailed.




DECEMIBER M/IEETING, 1841


205


During the past year, the main edifice has been completed, a cis-tern sufficiently large to furnish at all times an abundant supply
of water in case of fire, and other conveniences for the occupancy of
the buildings, have been added, and the whole finished in the most
workman-like manner.
The Cabinet of Natural History and the Library, which had
been temporarily placed in one of the Professors' houses, have been
transferred, each, to one of the large rooms in the Main Building
appropriated to their use, so that the benefits of the Library may
be had under the care of the Librarian, agreeably to the rules which
have been adopted by the Board, and where the Mineralogical Cabinet has been opened, and will be arranged under the direction of
Dr. D. Houghton, Professor of Mineralogy, Geology, and Chemistry, whose services in this and other general interests, as a member of the Faculty, have been of great value; although in consequence of the classes not yet being sufficiently advanced, he has
not been required to deliver lectures, or any instructions to them,
in his Department, and has therefore declined any salary from the
Board, but generously rendered his services for the benefit of the
Institution. To the Library there'have been added, during the past
year, the bound volumes of the public documents of this State and
of the United States, togethei with Conzversations Lexicon, in German, thirteen 8vo volumes presented by Dr. Charles W. Bomp, of
La Pointe, Lake Superior, and some six volumes of Spanish and
German Mineralogical works, by Baronl Lederer, late Austrian Con-.sul at New York. The Mineralogical Cabinet 'has been increased
by the addition of a small box of specimens from- Baron Ledierer,
and very considerably by specimens collected during the current
year, by the gentlemen engaged in the geological survey of this
State. The Cabinet of Minerals, purchased. in I837 from Baron
Lederer for the sum of $4,o00 and lately opened by Dr. D. Houghton, who is now occupied in arranging them in cases according to
their scientific classification, proves to be a very rich and: valuable
'collection. It contains; as we are informed by him, almost every
known mineral, with the greater portion of the varieties, and may
be fairly estimated to equal, if not to exceed, any collection of foreign minerals in the United' States, being a much richer Cabinet
than that of Yale which originally cost $20,000 and has since been
greatly increased. In addition to this, the entire Cabinet of the
University comprehends a very extensive collection of rock specimens, fossils, American minerals, together with a Zoological collection of great value, 'altogether forming greater facilities and inducements for study in Natural History than can be had in any Institution in this country.
At an early period after the commencement of the last year, it
was foreseen that by the necessary expenses incurred in the erection of buildings, in the procurement of Library and Cabinet, and in
the support of seven different Branches of the style and character
which have heretofore been reported, the sum $Ioo,ooo obtained on
loan by means of the State Bonds, and put into the hands of the
Board to enable them to commence operations as early as possible
by anticipating the moneys that would become due on the actual
sales of University Lands, would be so far expended as to embarrass the further operations of the Board unless there should be a
greater amount of interest and installments paid in by purchasers
than, from the experience of one or two preceding years it was




206


DECEMBER MEETING, 1841


feared would be realized during the coming year. The reduction
of the minimum price of lands and! the measures for the relief of
purchasers adopted by the Legislature of I840 and 1841, it was believed by the Board, would have an effect contrary to that which
they intended by it, and cause, as has actually been the case, much
less money to be received during the coming year, instead of replenishing the means of the Board. To continue the Branches upon the
system originally established, and to organize the Main Institution,
therefore, it was foreseen, would be impracticable without further
resources than those at the command of the Board; at least, it.
could not be continued for more than a year or eighteen months at
furthest if attempted. The value of the Branches was felt to be'
great, and the importance of opening the Main Institution still
greater, inasmuch as the interests of education called for it, and
all the necessary buildings and preparations had been completed.
The idea was conceived that possibly now since the Branches had
been established and in successful operation, a change might be
made in the system, which wtuld subject the Board to less expense, continue to foster the Branches, and afford means to justify
the opening of the University. Accordingly a change wras resolved
upon, and instead of the Board's undertaking to support the Branches by paying the Principals' and teachers' salaries and receiving the
avails of tuition, it was determined that, from and after the I9th
August, there should be the sum of $500oo appropriated to each
Branch, the Principal be allowed to appropriate the proceeds of tuition to his own use, and to be at the sole expense of employing and
paying his necessary Assistants, as well as meeting all expenses for
repairing buildings. This reduction of expenses, it was believed,
would enable the Board to sustain the Branches and to open the
Main Institution. The effect of -the change, in so far as concerns
the Branches, has been the cessation of three, viz., those of Pontiac,
Monroe, and Niles. The remainder continue to flourish and extend their advantages to ithe places where they are situated. This
change, moreover, has enabled the Board to organize a Faculty and
open the Main Institution.
It was believed that the number of students who might offer,
while they were sufficiently numerous to require some measures to
enable them to obtain collegiate advantages in their own State,
would nevertheless not be sufficient to justify the appointment of a
full Faculty. Should none offer but for the Freshman and Sophomore, the two inferior, classes, it would not be necessary to have
a full Faculty. Two Professors, one for the Languages and the
other for Mathematics, Who might be competent to conduct the
students of such classes in their collateral studies, would be adequate to all the necessary duties, and thus save the Board from the
expense of the salaries of a Chancellor and' other Professors, whose
services in the business of instruction would not be required till the
classes were more advanced. The expense for the support of a
full Faculty would be so disproportionate to the limited number of
students as to make many feel that the expenditure would be altogether too great and thus excite jealousies against the Institution,
and destroy confidence in the Regents. Besides, it was doubted
whether so little certainty as to the future means of the Board under the existing state of things and with no power whatever possessed' by the Regents to attend to, collect, and manage _the revenue
of the University, or to urge the fiscal officers as at present consti



DECEMBER MEETING, I841


207 -

tuted by law their guardians, to expedite or coerce the collection of
that revenue, it would be possible to induce any gentleman fully
qualified for the office of Chancellor, or persons selected for their
attainments and worth for the different Professorships, to accept
of appointments, should' they be tendered to them. It would have
most naturally and certainly been asked by such, had they been appointed, "What security can you offer for the payment of our
salaries? What prospect can reasonably be entertained that you
will be able to carry the Institution forward more than another
year? What direction or control have the Regents over the finances
and revenue of the University? On whom shall we be dependent.
from year to year for the payment of our salaries-on the Regents,
or the Superintendent of Public Instruction, or the Legislature?
May we not be subjected to expense and privations in removing to
your State, and after having fairly got into our offices and begun
to discharge our duties, find ourselves deserted, without funds, and
knowing not to whom to look for the payment of our salaries?
And is it at all reasonable for you to ask us to place ourselves in
such embarrassing circumstances, to make an experiment so perilous, or for us to run risks so fraught with danger to our reputation and usefulness, and personal and domestic comfort and peace?"
To all such questions we could have but expressed our confidence in
the Legislature, who might authorize future loans, or coerce the
payment of outstanding interest, or adopt some measure to secure
greater efficiency in the collection of the revenue. The disastrous.
history of Universities and Colleges in different States in this Union,
where the appropriations for their support -were dependent on legislative bodies, changing with every year, and no permanent body of
Trustees or Regents held responsible and furnished, with competent.
power for the collection and management of the revenue, we fear,
would have been appealed to in opposition to all our most sanguine
hopes, that such would not be the history of the University of
Michigan.
These and such like considerations, induced the Board to adopt
the most prudent and cautious plan and one which would not be so
likely to issue in disappointment in the rejection of their invitations.
Having been apprised that several Branches would cease their operations in consequence of the change they had been constrained to
make in the appropriations, and, it being certain that two, if not
more, valuable, worthy and in every respect fully qualified Instructors, known and proved to be such by their service, already as Principals of Branches in the employment of the Board, would thus be
thrown out of their situations, it wa:s judged that no better or more
desirable course could be pursued than to secure the services of
such as might be obtained and transfer them from their places in
the Branches to the Professorships in the University, which must be
immediately filled in order to its being opened. Accordingly, Mr.
Geo. P. Williams, late Principal of the Branch at Pontiac, and the
Rev. Joseph Whiting, late Principal of the Branch at Niles, were
unanimously appointed in August last, Professors in the University,
the former of Mathematics, and the latter of Latin and Greek Languages, and the 25th September ordained for the opening of the
Collegiate Department of the University at Ann Arbor. It was at
the same time, made the duty of these gentlemen to organize the
students who might offer and were qualified, into collegiate classes,
and to superintend their instruction in all the collateral branches of




208


DECEMBER MEETIANG, I84I1


a collegiate education. Believing, also, that a much larger proportion of students who might offer, would not be sufficiently advanced in their studies, to enter, even the lowest collegiate class,
it was determined to organize a Preparatory School for the reception of such, where they might as speedily as possible qualify themselves to enter the University. This Preparatory School has been
put substantially on the same foundation, and subjected to the same
general rules with the different Branches, but is to subject the
Board to no additional expense. The sum of $500 per annum was
voted as the salary of each Professor. The occupancy, free of rent,
by each of one of the houses built for the use of the Professors
Was further voted, and, in consideration of their discharging the
duties of Principal of the Preparatory School or Branch at Ann
Arbor, and conducting free of all expense to the Board, the studies
of the youth in it, they were allowed to appropriate to their own
use, the moneys receivable for tuition, just as under the present
system is done in the-several Branches.
By the Organic Law of the University, the students in the Collegiate Department are exempt from all charges for tuition. An
Executive Committee was 'appointed, whose duties it was resolved by
the Board should be the same in relation to the Main Institution
with those of the Committee of Branches in relation to them. The
report of this Committee, which will be found in the Proceedings of
November 27th, 184I, will show what 'they have done, what is the
schedule of studies, and the general provisions of the government
adopted for the Collegiate Classes.
The experiment thus far, of opening the Main Institution upon
the plan adopted, has more than realized the sanguine expectations
of the Board, and the report of the Faculty which will be found
in appendix (No. I) will show its pre'sent condition, and the measure
of success which has attended it.
The situation of the several Branches will appear from' the report of the Committee on Branches, found in the Proceedings of
Nov. 27th, I841, and the regulations with regard to the Library, from
the report of the appropriate Committee in 'the Proceedings of Nov.
27th, 184I. From the report of the Committee on Finance, which
is also found in the Proceedings of Nov. 27th, I84I, it will be seen
that the balance of money on hand on the first day of January,
1841, was $22,314.73, to which has' been added during the current
year for interest from the Bank of Michigan, '.and for amount of
warrant on the State Treasurer, etc., no more than to make the
total amount of moneys belonging to the Board $25,328.33. After
deducting the various sums due for interest on State Bonds, insurance, salaries of Professors, Principals, teachers, expenses in erecting University buildings at Ann Arbor, and other expenditures,
amounting to $I6,653.50, there remains in the Treasury a balance of
$8,674.83. Of this sum,,the only available portion is the item of
$I,721.9I in Michigan State Scrip, nominally equal in amount to the
outstanding warrants, the condition of the Bank of Michigan having rendered the amount in their hands not immediately subject
to the drafts of the Board, and the balance of the loan having been:anticipated inadvertently by the Treasurer acting in the double capacity of the representative of the Board as their Treasurer, and
of the Bank as their Cashier. -It will be perceived, as the Committee remark, that the affairs of the Board have reached a crisis, and
one which has been looked forward to by the Board with much




DECEMBER MEETING, 1841


209


anxiety. It was hoped that the Legislature of 1840 would have
made such changes in the Organic Law of the University as would
have rendered the collection of the funds of the University more,efficient, and given the Board, who have to bear all responsibility
for the well and faithful management of their trust, the power
absolutely necessary for the prompt and punctual discharge of their
duties. A communication on this subject was submitted at that time
to the appropriate officers of government, being the unanimous expression of the views of the Board. In this, the Board were disappointed. When the Legislature of that year, however, required
from the Board a prompt report to be laid before that of I84I at
the commencement of -their session, it was again hoped that the
subject would not be lost sight of in the crowd of business, but
that the Board would have the powers conferred on them which
are so indespensable to the welfare and permanent success of the
University. In this too, they were disappointed. No action was
had on the subject by the Legislature. Being utterly destitute of
all power to look after the moneys due to the University, and having had but little put into their hands, for 'the last two years by
the payment of interest, the Board had no other means than the
proceeds of the loan negotiated with the Bank of Michigan' by the
authority of the Legislature of 1838. The public expected, and the
state of things called for the opening of the University at the earliest
possible period. This could not be done without appropriate and
necessary buildings. The Board lost no time, therefore, in constructing what in the commencing of the University might be neces-.sary. These have been finished, in a style which does credit to the
State, at a very reasonable cost compared with the excellence, durability, and classic taste of the workmanship, and the value of materials. Moreover, it was required, that Branches should be organized and supported, and the wants and demands of several interesting sections of the State called for it. The Board endeavored, in
both respects, to meet the wishes of the Legislature, and the expectations of the public. They did not anticipate any embarrassment
from the want of means necessary for the carrying on of the University, until it was ascertained that the interest due on the sale
*of land would not be paid, and the action of the Legislature, reducing the minimum price of lands and delaying the payment of the
interest, excited the fears of the Board that there would not be
money enough collected 'to meet the current expenses, to pay the
interest on the loan, and to liquidate it when it became due. The
Board are confident that had the changes in the Organic Law, which
were asked for in 1840 a.nd again in 1841, been authorized, the affairs
of the University would have been not only at this time, but pros-pectively, as prosperous as could be desired. There is much to encourage the Board, and to give the prospect of permanent success,
could they but realize the moneys due.to the University, and receive the interest regularly, accruing from the sale of lands.: Should
their plans be defeated, to this source only, may that defeat be
traced. It appears from the statement of 'the Committee on PiInance, that the resources of.the Board for moneys due and receivable during 1842 without reference to the interest due on University
Lands sold during the year 1841, amounts to $58,210io.62. This sum
would be more than adequate to meet all the necessary expenses of
-the University and Branches, to increase the Faculty, if 'the number,of students' should require it, to pay the interest due on the State




210


DECECMBER M1EETING, i841


Bonds for the loan of $IOO,OOO, to purchase a philosophical apparatus, to commence the botanical garden, to erect a Laboratory, to
contribute to a sinking fund, as well as to meet such unforeseen
and contingent expenses, as are incident to the. commencement of
such an Institution. The Board feel a deep solicitude on this subject, for judging from the experience of the two past years, there
is but little reason to believe that even the amount necessary to
prevent the actual suspension of all appropriations to Branches, and
the dismission of the Faculty, will be collected during the coming
year. Nor can the Board according to the existing laws move in
the matter or employ any means, or influence or agency whatever
for the collection of the funds of the Uni.versity. It is judged but
reasonable that they who are held responsible to the public, and
will be looked to by the Legislature for the faithful discharge of
their trust, would be able to know what are their means and resources, and what they may reasonably expect and calculate upon
from year to year. It is impossible to give any thing like 'consistency and permanency to their plans without this. Already have
they been necessitated to derange their plans, and to adopt measures
which have involved them in unpleasant difficulties with some in
their employ and which have given occasion to others, unacquainted
with the facts, to reproach the integrity and rectitude of the Board.
It is understood that payments of moneys due to the University
are, and will be, made in State scrip, a depreciated currency, which
in their judgment is in violation of the sacred trust reposed in the
guardians of education in this State by the splendid gift of the
donors, and which, if not *arrested and prevented, cannot fail to
subject the Board to the most ruinous embarrassments.
The Committee on Finance have made some suggestions on the
subject of relieving the debtors of the University from a portion of
the burthen resulting from the extravagance of former years, as an
expedient for increasing the annual receipts. But the Board think
that the experiments already made on this subject, afford no grounds
for such hope, and that the trust reposed in them and in this State,
by the government of the United States, as well as their obligations
to the community at large, the interests of science, the welfare of
our entire population, and the character of Michigan hereafter, and
of unborn generations, require a sacred adherence to existing engagements, which may be done without diminishing the resources
of the University, or perpetrating injustice or oppression toward
any of its debtors. The Board deprecate legislative action in this
matter and feel persuaded that a judicious investigation of the entire relations and responsibilities of the claims of the community
for the best disposal of the munificent grant of the United States
for the purposes intended and of the immense importance and
necessity for such a trust to be totally disconnected from and unembarrassed by any political action whatever, will convince every
unprejudiced mind that the funds should be deemed sacred, and
while the Board should be held at all times fully responsible for
the right and best management of them in carrying out the design
of the donor, they should be furnished with the power essential to
the discharge of such duties and responsibilities. The history of all
collegiate institutions in this country dependent immediately on the
State has shown that they have never prospered, as long as they have
been subjected to the influence of desultory legislation, of the uncertainty from year to year whether any system adopted by one




DECEMlBER MEETING, 1841


211


Legislature might not be changed the next, and of the want of an
efficient Board of Trustees or Regents, of sufficient permanence, and
possessed of adequate power for the responsible care and management of their interests, both literary and pecuniary. The establishment of a collegiate institution in a free state, and the conducting
of its interests, should ever be upon liberal principles, and irrespective of all sectarian predilections and prejudices. Whatever varieties of sect exist in these United States, the great mass of the population profess an attachment to Christianity and, as a people, avow
themselves to be Christian. There is common ground occupied by
them, all-sufficient for co-operation in an institution of learning,
and for the presence of a religious influence, devoid of any sectarian
forms and peculiarities, so essential, not only as the most efficient
policy, but also for the development and formation of the most valuable traits of youthful character, and of qualifications for future
usefulness. Experiments made in other States, by catering to the
morbid prejudices of sectarians, have only embarrassed the institutions of the State, and matured the growth of numerous and rival
colleges avowedly sectarian. Attempts made to exclude all religious
influence whatever from the college, have only rendered 'them the
sectarian of an atheistical or infidel party or faction, and so offended and disgusted the majority of the population agreeing in their
respect for a common Christianity, that they have withdrawn 'their
support, confidence, and patronage, and left them to drag a miserable existence, till they invoked the presence and influence of the
Christian religion in them. The only security that can be had for
the avoidance of sectarianism, and the necessity and desirable influence of Christianity, in the conduct of a collegiate institution,
intended to be the common property of the State, is to be sought in
the character and principle of the men who are placed over it, and
held responsible for its administration. There are men to be found
in all different Christian sects of sufficiently expanded views, and
liberal spirit, and enlightened minds, devoid of the spirit of bigotry
and narrow prejudices of sect and of party, that can be selected
and deputed to such a work, whose public spirit and philanthropy
and whose love of country and attachments to the interests of their
State and its entire population, will always furnish the best and
only true guarantee against the evils of sectarianism. The Board
are happy to state the fact, without meaning in the least to commend themselves, that while they consist of gentlemen from almost,
if not all, the principal Christian sects in our State, there has nothing occurred in their individual intercourse, their deliberations or
debates, or any of their official acts,'which have ever elicited occasion for the expression, or even the existence of jealousy and suspicions growing out of sectarian prejudices or attachments.
All of which is respectfully submitted,
(Signed)  G;o. DUV1FIELD,
J. OWEN,
MARTIN KUNDIG,
Detroit, December 20th, 1841.       Committee,
APPENDIX NO. I.
Report of the Faculty.
Pursuant to instructions from the Committee of the Board of
Regents, we proceeded on the 25th of September to organize the
academic classes of the University.  Information previously oh



212


DECE/MBER MEETING, 1841


tained had led us to expect applications for admission to a standing
as far advanced at least as the beginning of the second year. Arrangements were, therefore, made:to organize and instruct the
Freshman and Sophomore classes. All applicants for admission
have been examined, anad six have been received as members of the
Freshman class, while only' one is pursuing the studies of the Sophomore class. Two others who were in advance of the Freshman
class in some studies but deficient in others will join that class next
term. It is hoped that additions will be made to both the classes
before the close of the academic year.
'A Preparatory Department was also organized at the same
time, in which the same course of instruction is pursued as in the
Branches of the University. In this Department, there have been,
during the current term, 'twenty-three students, of whom all but
one are pursuing studies preparatory to the University course, and
seven will probably be able to enter the next Freshman class.
In deciding on the conditions of admission, we have been governed by the general instructions of the Committee, viz., to require
such an amount of previous attainment as would place the University in that respect on an equality with the best colleges in the
United States.
In regard to the plan of studies for the first two years of the
course, which plan has been published by direction of the Committee, some remarks may be proper by way of explanation.
Assuming that the object of the Board of Regents is to furnish
to the youth of our State an opportunity of acquiring a superior
education, we have considered mental' discipline and mental furniture as the two great points 'to be kept in view in the arrangement
of studies, the selection of text-books, and the method of instruction.
Although the lattei of these two points may never be lost sight of,
yet the former seems to require special attention in the early part
of the academic course. In this part, therefore, those branches of
study are presented, and those methods of instruction pursued which
seem best adapted to form in the student, habits of fixing the attention, directing the train of thought, and analyzing with nice discrimination, balancing carefully, evidences presented to the judgment, and arranging and systematizing the knowledge acquired by
memory. The study of ancient languages and of pure mathematics.,
therefore, occupy the greater part of the first two years in the
course. The recitations and exercises in 'these branches are conducted in a manner that is designed to throw the student as much
as possible upon the resources of his own mind, to rouse his individual energy and to give those habits of mental activity without
which the best apparatus of libraries. and scientific collections can
do little more than afford the means of idle amusement.
We are of opinion that the text books named in our schedule of
studies for the first two years,.should so far as the department of
languages is concerned, be regarded as indicating rather the amount
of such language to be read in the proposed time, than the authors
whose works are to be read. For while there are certain authors
of such acknowledged' excellence in both the Latin and Greek Languages that no man of liberal education should be unacquainted
with their writings, there are others among those ordinarily read
in colleges in this country, whose claim to preference is by no means
such as to warrant their exclusive use. Nor do we see any sufficient
reason for requiring each class to read precisely the same authors,




DECEIMBER lMEETIANG, I84I


213


whilst some variety in this respect might promote the taste for
classical learning. We, therefore, respectfully suggest to the Committee that this matter be left subject to such arrangements from
year to year as the progressive standard of liberal education in the
country shall require.
Natural History has been inserted in the list of studies of the
first two years, under the impression that, with the means provided
for this purpose, the subject might be commenced early in the
course with advantage. Besides the knowledge that would be acquired, it would seem to vary the objects of attention for the student, and could be made valuable as a means of forming habits of
classification and arrangement. We are aware, however, that a
knowledge of the principles of Chemistry must precede any attempt to give thorough instruction in Natural Science.
Each student in the college classes pays the fee of $Io on his
admission, and a tax for incidental expenses of about $2.50 per
term. In the Preparatory Department, the students pay tuition as
in the Branches of the University. Six dollars per term is charged
for tuition, and an incidental tax of from fifty cents to $I.50 per
term.
Board may be obtained at from $I.50 to $2.00 a week; washing
is obtained at from three to six shillings per dozen; firewood costs
the student from $I.25 to $I.50 per cord.
(Signed) JOSEPH WHITING, Professor of Languages.
G;ORGEc P. WILLIAMS, Professor of Math.
DOUGLASS HOUGHTON, Professor of Geology,
Mineralogy and Chemistry.
Ann Arbor, i8th December, 1841.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth,
Resolved, That the Professor of Geology and Mineralogy of
the University be authorized to set up such specimens in Geology
and Zoology in addition to the Lederer Cabinet, as he shall think
fit, and that the sum of $500 be and the same is hereby appropriated
to defray the expenses of setting up both the Lederer Cabinet and
said additional specimens.
Resolved, That the Professors of the University at Ann Arbor
be authorized to employ a laborer in and about the University
grounds and buildings at that place and that the sum of Ten Dollars per month, estimating from the 25th Sept. last, be and the same
is hereby appropriated in payment for the wages of said laborer.
On motion of the President,
Resolved, That the Committee on Finance be and they are hereby instructed to take immediate legal steps for the collection of the
several demands transferred to the Board of Regents by the Michigan State Bank.
Resolved, That the Committee who reported the Annual Report be and they are hereby authorized to procure two hundred additional copies of the Annual Report.
On motion, adjourned to 27th instant.




214


JANUARY MlEETING, 1842


SECOND DECEMBER MEETING, 1841.
Detroit, December 27th, I841.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Gordon, in the Chair, Mlessrs. Duffield, Wilkins, Kearsley, MIorell, Kundig, and Owen.
Judge Wilkins, from the Select Committee appointed on
the 27th ultimo, to whom the subject of the report of the
Committee on Branches made on I3th ultimo in reference to
the claim of Mr. Meigs was referred, reported that they had
held a conference with Mr. Meigs and were unable to effect
a compromise with him, and asked to be discharged from
the further consideration of the subject, which report was
accepted on motion of Judge Wilkins, and the Committee
discharged.
The report of the Committee on Branches was then, on
motion of Judge Wilkins, taken up for consideration. On
motion of Justice Morell, the further consideration of the
'Report of the Committee on Branches was laid upon the
table.
Judge Wilkins laid upon the table the following resolution,
Resolved, That the Treasurer of the Board of Regents of the
University of Michigan pay the warrants of the Rev. Samuel Centre,
being for $433.33, each in State Scrip (at I2'2 per cent. discount).
On motion, the Board adjourned till the first Quarterly
Meeting for 1842, on the 4th January next.
FIRST QUARTERLY MEETING FOR 1842.
Detroit, January 4th, I842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: His Excellency Governor John S. Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Origen D. Richardson, Chief Justice
Fletcher, Justices Ransom, Whipple, and Morell, Judge Wilkins, Messrs. Kundig, Owen, and Draper, and Chancellor
Farnsworth.
There being no business for the consideration of the
Board, on motion the Board adjourned till Monday evening
the ioth inst.




SECOND JANUARRY MEETING, 1842


215


SECOND JANUARY MEETING, 1842.
Detroit, ioth January, I842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Richardson, Justices Ransom, Whipple, and Morell, Judge Wilkins, Messrs. Kearsley, Draper, Owen, Pitcher, Duffield,
Kundig, and Farnsworth.
Minutes of last meeting read.
On motion of Justice Whipple, the report of the Committee on Finance, on the subject of the claim  of Mr.
Thompson, made the I3th November last, was taken up for
consideration.
Justice Whipple moved that a warrant be issued in favor
of Mr. Thompson for the sum of $I66.66, salary for two
months. The question was decided in the negative as follows, by yeas and nays:Yeas: Messrs. Whipple, Morell, Owen, Pitcher, and Duffield, 5.
Nays: Messrs. Barry, Richardson, Ransom, Wilkins, Kearsley,
Draper, Kundig, and Farnsworth. 8.
Maj. Kearsley offered the following resolution and moved its adoption,
Resolved, That it is the opinion of this Board that Mr. Thompson has been paid in full for his services as architect and superintendent under his contract with the Board.
On motion of Justice Whipple, the above resolution was
laid upon the table.
On motion of the same, the resolution laid upon the table
by Judge Wilkins on the 27th December on the subject of
the warrants of the Rev. Samuel Centre was taken up for
consideration.
Justice Ransom moved to amend by striking out, "At a
discount of 122 per cent," which motion was decided in the
affirmative.
On motion of Judge Wilkins, the resolution was laid upon the table.
On motion of Mr. Owen, the report of the Committee on
Branches made on the I3th of November last in reference
to the application of Mr. Meigs, was taken up for consideration.




216   THIRD JANUARY 'MlEETING, 1842


Mr. Duffield offered the following resolution and moved
its adoption:
Resolved, That the Rev. Mr. Meigs be and he is hereby recognized as Principal of the Detroit Branch of the Univ;ersity until
the end: of the summer term of this year, with the rights and privileges and duties pertaining to the Principal of other Branches, and
that the sum of $500 per annum be and the same is hereby appropriated toward the payment.of his salary as Principal as aforesaid.
in addition to the tuition fees to be paid by the students attending said Branch.
Mr. Richardson moved the following as a substitute,
which was decided in the negative.
Resolved, That there be allowed and paid to Mr. Meigs the sum
of $250, in full satisfaction of his claim for damages against the
Board of Regents, which occurred in consequence of the Board
having suspended the appropriation to the Detroit Branch after the
employment of Mr. Meigs as Principal of that Branch.
The question recurring upon the adoption of the original
resolution, the same was decided in the affirmative by yeas
and nays, as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Whipple, Morell, Wilkins, Draper, Pitcher, Duffield, Kundig, and Farnsworth. 8.
Nays: Messrs. Barry, Richardson, Ransom, Kearsley, and
Owen. 5.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Auditing Committee be instructed to audit
all accounts due by the Board, provided the creditors of the Board
will receive such funds as are in. the hands of the Treasurer of the
University.
Mr. Owen submitted the following, which, on motion
of Maj. Kearsley, was laid upon the table.
Resolved, That the Principals of the Branches of the University
shall be required to report to the Board of Regents at the close of
each term the amount of tuition fees received from each scholar,
and if in any case a larger sum has been charged or received than
that established by this Board, such excess shall be deducted from
the salary of such Principal.
On motion, the Board adjourned to the 24th instant.
THIRDi JANUARY         MEETING, 1842.
Detroit, January 24th, I842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Priesent: Governor Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Richardson, Justices Ransom and Morell, Messrs. Duffield, Kundig, Owen, and Kearsley.




THIRD JANUARY MEETING, 1842


217


The Miinutes of last meeting were read and approved.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the communication of Mr.
E. Bingham, relative to the appropriation of Rev. N. M.
Wells, late teacher in the Niles Branch, made to the Board
on the 13th Nov. last, was taken up for consideration.
Maj. Kearsley offered the following resolution and moved its adoption, which motion was decided in the negative.
Resolved, That the Board of Regents will receive from Rev. N..
M. Wells, the sum of $I51.66 in notes of the Bank of Michigan,
received by him in April last for salary as teacher in the Niles
Branch, and that the Secretary be directed to issue a warrant on
the Treasurer of the Board for that amount.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the resolution offered by
him at the last meeting and laid upon the table, relative to
the claim of Mr. I. Thompson, was taken up for consideration and on his motion, the said resolution was adopted by
yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Richardson, Ransom, Kundig, Kearsley, and
Barry.
Nays: Duffield and Owen.
On motion of Justice Ransom, Justice Morell was ex 
cused from voting on the above resolution..
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the resolution offered byMr. Owen at the last meeting of the Board and laid upon
the table relative to reports from the Principals of Branches,
was taken up for consideration.
Maj. Kearsley moved to amend the resolution by inserting after the word, "Report," the words, "Commencing with
the fall term of 1841," which motion was decided in the negative.
Mr. Duffield, moved that the further consideration of the.
resolution be postponed until the next meeting of the Board,
which motion was decided in the negative.
Justice Morell moved to lay the resolution on the table,.
which motion was decided in the negative.
The resolution was then adopted by yeas and nays, as:
follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Richardson, Ransom, Kundig, Owen, Kearsley,
and Barry.
Nays: Messrs. Morell and Duffield.
On motion of Justice Ransom, the following resolutions
were adopted seriatim.




218  FOURTH JANUARY MiEETING, 1842


Resolved, That a Select Committee of three be appointed with
instructions to ascertain whether any sum be due to the University
Fund from the Bank of Michigan, either principal or interest on
account of the $Ioo,ooo loan made to the Board of Regents by said
Bank, and if any sum be found so due, that the Committee report
the amount thereof at the next meeting of this Board, and also to
report the security, if any, that may exist for its payment.
Resolved, That the said Committee be also instructed to ascertain whether there be any funds at. the disposal of this Board out
of which the interest due on the $Ioo,ooo loan on the first day of
June next may be paid, and that said Committee report thereon at
the next meeting of the Board.
Messrs. Kearsley, Richardson, and Pitcher were appointed such Committee.
Resolved, That it is the duty of this Board to provide for the
payment of interest on the loan made under its direction before further appropriation be made for any other purpose.
Justice Ransom laid upon the table the following resoiution:
Resolved, That all Professors and other teachers now in the
employment of this Board, be advised as soon as may be by the
Committee on Branches, that there is no fund under our control
out of which their salaries can be immediately paid, and that they
may, in their discretion, withdraw from the services of this Board;
or if they so' elect, may continue in our employment and receive
their stipulated salaries at such time hereafter as the receipts into
our Treasury will permit.
On motion of Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Board be instructed to exercise his best discretion in reference to the time of the foreclosure
of the mortgage of N. Hudden assigned to the Board by the Michigan State Bank.
On motion of Justice Ransom,
Resolved, That the same Committee1 be directed to ascertain
whether payment can be made by the Bank of Michigan of the
amounts deposited by the Treasurer of this Board in said Bank.
If said payment cannot be made, to receive from said Bank proposals for the security of said debt.
On motion of Mr. Duffield, the Board adjourned till
Monday evening, the 31st instant.
FOURTH JANUARY MEETING, i842.
Detroit, January 3Ist, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Ric;lardson, Justices Fletcher, Ransom, and       Whipple, Maj.
Kearsley, Messrs. Owen, Pitcher, and Trowbridge.
Special Committee of three above.




FOURTH JANUARY MIIEETING, 1842


219


The Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
Mr. Duffield, through the Secretary, presented his protest against the action of the Board at the last meeting in
the adoption of the resolution offered by Mr. Owen on the
Ioth January instant, which, on motion of Maj. Kearsley,
was laid on the table.
Major Kearsley, from the Select Committee appointed at
the last meeting of the Board in pursuance of the resolution
of Justice Ransom adopted at the last meeting, made report,
and, on motion of Justice Whipple:
Resolved, That the report be recommitted to the Select Committee with instructions to state an account between the Board and
the Bank of Michigan showing the items in respect to which a difference of opinion exists; also, that the said Committee report the
condition and value of the property proposed to be conveyed to the
Board by the Bank of Michigan to liquidate the debt due by the
Bank to the Board; and especially that the said Committee examine
and report respecting the title of said property, upon what terms it
is proposed to convey it to the Board, and their opinion upon any
proposition that may be made to said Committee, and whether any
Legislative action be necessary to carry into effect any agreement
the Board may think it expedient to enter into respecting the puirchase of said property.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the report of the Committee on Finance on his claim made to the Board on the 22nd
day of July, 1841, was taken up for consideration.
On motion of Justice Whipple, the report was recommitted to the Committee who reported the same, with instructions to report the nature and extent of the services performed by Maj. Kearsley.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Auditing Committee, reported back
the vouchers of the Bank of Michigan referred to him on
the 7th January, I840, and ordered that the same be placed
on the files of the Board.
On motion of Justice Ransom, the resolution laid upon
the table by him at the last meeting was taken up for consideration and on his motion the same was adopted.
Maj. Kearsley laid upon the table the following resolutions:
Resolved, That from and after the term of the Branches which
will expire in August I842, the sum of $200, and no more, be appropriated to the Branches, except that at Ann Arbor.




220           FEBRUARY MIEETITNG, 1842
Resolvcd, That the Principal of the Branch at Detroit be informed, as the sense of the Board, that the appropriation made to
said Branch of $500 for one year, shall not be considered by said
Principal for any time beyond the expiration of the term ending in
August, 1842; and that the Board of Regents do not now intend
to become responsible for any appropriations beyond said term.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, the Board adjourned till
Thursday, the 3rd February next.
FEBRUARY       MEETING, 1842.
Detroit, February 3rd, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
PresenIt: Governor Barry, Justice Ransom, Messrs.
Fletcher, Duffield, Trowbridge, Kearsley, Draper, and
Owen.
The Minutes of last meeting were read and approved.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Select Committee to whom the
report made by him at the last meeting was recommitted,
reported the same back, together with a supplementary report as follows:
The undersigned Select Committee to whom were referred the
resolutions of the Board of Regents adopted on the 24th inst., have
had the same under consideration and respectfully report,
That, under the first Resolution, the Committee have obtained
an account from the Bank of Michigan, embracing a credit to the
University of $I06,ooo, being the principal and premium of the loan.
The Bank has also given a credit of balance of interest, according
to the tenor of their bond, amounting to $10,754.94. Thus the aggregate of the credits of the University, on account of the loan, as
stated by the Bank, amounts to $II6,754.94. The Committee have
examined the statement agreeably to. the data assumed by the Bank,
but as respects the interest account, do not agree with this Bank as
to the period upon which the Bank charges interest upon the several sums paid. The Bank also appears to have credited the Regents with interest upon the $o10,000 from July 25, I838, whereas
the interest upon that sum commenced' July Ist, 1838, that being the
date of the State Bonds. The Regents are, therefore, entitled ito
the further sum of $44I.14, being the amount of said interest. Again,
your Committee perceive that the Bank has charged in some instances 10 per cent premium upon the amounts necessary for payment to be made by the Regents in the City of New York. This
your Committee deem inconsistent with the bond of the Bank, as
specie or its equivalent in Detroit was covenanted to be paid by the
Bank. The Committee think 2 per cent. a full compensation for a
sight draft on the City of New York. By computation made by
your Committee, the Bank has charged an excess of 8 per cent. upon
about $5,427.50, amounting to about $441.90, which the Bank yet




FEBRUARY MEfEETING, 1842


221,owe upon the $Ioo,ooo loan. It is proper, however, to remark that
owing to the very limited time allowed for making the statement
by the Bank and for its examination, your Committee have only
approximated, as they believe, very nearly, rather than with absolute precision, to the sum remaining due from the Bank. The security for the fulfillment of the obligations on the part of the Bank,
as respects this loan, is most abundant. In addition to the obligation of the corporation, the personal liability of E. P. Hastings, C.
C. Trowbridge, James Abbott, D. G. Jones, Darius Lamson, and
Peter J. Desnoyers, is assumed by their respective signatures and:seals.
The Committee have had a conference with the assignees upon
the subject matter of the Third Resolution, and have inspected a
large amount of assets belonging to the Bank, of which the assignees propose to transfer, at a valuation stated, any claim of an
amount corresponding or nearly so, with the indebtedness of said
Bank to the.Regents on account of $7,oo6.85 now on deposit in said
Bank to their credit, together with some interest thereon. The attention of your Committee has been called to one item of this schedule. This consists of a loan to the Trustees of a corporation char-tered in the City of Detroit for the benefit of female education.
The Corporation of the City of Detroit originally granted to
this corporation for female education a valuable and large lot of.ground, bordering upon the Campus Martius, containing about
I7,840 square feet. A spacious brick building has been erected thereon, which, with the outhouse and fences, cost about $9ooo. Of this.sum with interest, $5,696.18 is due to the Bank of Michigan. The
Common Council some years since authorized the Corporation for
the benefit of female education, to sell the property under certain
restrictions. Your Committee are of opinion that should said Com-mon Council deem it advisable to give the power to the Trustees to.convey this property to the Board of Regents, they could thus balance the account with the Bank of Michigan, and then the Regents
would become possessed of a property which will always be valua-.ble, and might be hereafter converted into' cash or might be used
for the purpose of education. When it is recollected that it is,contemplated to locate the Medical Department of the University
in the City of Detroit, it will be seen either that this lot and building might be used for that purpose or readily exchanged for a
more suitable site. The Common Council might be the more readily induced to give this authority from the fact that the State now
occupy one front of this lot by their depot, car houses, etc., erected
thereon to the great deterioration in the value of said lot. In answer to the requirements of the second Resolution, your Committee
have ascertained that in addition to the foregoing sums still alleged
to be due on the account of the $ioo,ooo loan, the Regents possess
the following means for meeting the interest due upon the State
Bonds for $Ioo,ooo received and disposed of by the Regents, viz.
Remaining in the hands of the-Treasurer, State
Scrip........................................$817.78
Bills of Bank  of Michigan........................ 549.97  1,367.75
On deposit in Bank of Michigan to credit of Treasurer..  6,456.88
T otal..........................................  $7 824.63




222


FEBRUARY MIEETING, 1 842


The Committee need not remark that these funds are totally
unavailable for the payment of their indebtedness in the City of
New York.
Your Committee deem it due to themselves, to the Board of
Regents, and to the people of this State, by whom this Board have
been entrusted with so large a fund, briefly to recapitulate the receipts and expenditures of the Board since its earliest organization.
Receipts.
Loan......................o..............$ I,ooo.oo
Premium on Loan..........................  6,ooo.oo
Balance of interest on loan..................  I0,793.44 $II6,793.4.4
Interest for year ending Aug. 1838 on lands
sold...................................  9,433.13
Interest for year ending Aug., 1839 on lands
sold......................................  6,402.91
Interest for year ending Aug., 1840, on land.
sold....................................  2,263.61  I8,099.65
$I34,893.09
Deduct balance on hand, exclusive of $434.20 alleged to
be yet due from the Bank of Michigan..............  7,824.63
Total received and expended..................... $I270o68.4o
In addition to the above, the Superintendent, as will be seen
from his report to the Legislature, just submitted, states the sum
of $248.50, as the entire amount of interest received on University
Lands heretofore sold, during the year 184I. But as this sum has
been neither received nor disbursed, it has not been taken into the
account.
In conclusion, your Committee may also remark that inasmuch
as the Legislature have given the Board of Regents no control
whatever over the collection of interest due from individuals, of
which a very large sum now remains due and unpaid, this Board
cannot justly be held responsible for the default in the payment of
interest due upon the loan on the 2ISt December, 184I, or for any
future failure to meet promptly the interest which may accrue. So
long as the Legislature control the collection, so long must that
body be responsible for the payment of not only the interest but
also the principal upon their bonds. One further remark and your
Committee would close their report. Various amendments or alterations have been brought forward in the Legislature respecting the
price and terms of payment of University Lands. When the Legislature granted and the Regents accepted State Bonds to the amount
of $Ioo,ooo, the Regents expected and had; every reason to depend
upon the price and terms of payment then by law existing. These
laws have been altered and modified to a very great extent; payments of interest have not been enforced, and in many instances
the minimum price has been very much lessened, thus deteriorating
the fund and encouraging remissness and neglect in payment of
interest. In a word, the original prospects of the Regents have been
so invaded and prostrated by legislation that it is not possible to
estimate how far they may be permitted to fulfill any engagement;




FEBRUARY ~MEETING, 1842


223


and therefore the Regents no longer feel bound to fulfill, leaving
that to the Legislature by such ways and means as that body in its
wisdom may devise.
All which is most respectfully submitted.
J. KEtARSLEY,
0. D. RICHARDSON,
Z. PITCHER,
Detroit, Jan. 3rst, 1842.             Committee.
Supplemelltary Report.
In obedience to the Resolution of the Board of Regents, dated
January 3ist, 1842, accompanying the recommitment of the report
made on that day, the Select Committee having given their attention to the same, respectfully report:
First. That on account of the State Bonds sold by the agent
of the Board of Regents to the Bank of Michigan, said Bank is indebted, at this date, to the Regents in the sum of $872.02 as per an
account herewith submitted,. See appendix "A."
Second. The Committee report, in regard to -title to "the Female Seminaryi Lot," so called, that by their deed dated March 29th,
1830, the Mayor, Recorder, Aldermen, and freemen of the City of
Detroit, conveyed said lot (containing 17,846 square feet as per
meter, bounds, and contents, expressed in said, but agreeably to a
diagram from the records of the City Surveyor, herewith submitted, 22,083 square feet) to the "Association for the Promotion of
Female Education" of the City of Detroit, in trust for the purposes of female education. And further, on the Ist day of April,
1837, said Mayor, etc., authorized and empow'ered the Trustees of
said Association to sell and convey said lot of ground for the purposes of discharging the then indebtedness of said Association, and
the balance of the proceeds of such sale to be invested in the purchase of some other site, suited to said purposes of female education, and' the erection of buildings thereon. The doings of said
Trustees to be reported to the Common Council of said City and
said lot of ground not to be disposed of otherwise than in accordance with said authority thus granted, unless with the approbation
and consent of said Common Council.
Third. Therefore, in the judgment of your Committee, the
legal title to said lot is now vested in the Trustees of said "Association," and that with the approbation, and concurrence of the
Mayor, Recorder, etc., of said City, said Trustees have the legal
right unconditionally to sell and convey the same; and no good
reason exists, in the opinion of your Committee, why the said Mayor, Recorder, etc., should not readily assent to such conveyance
to the Regents of the University.
Fourth. The assignees of the Bank of Michigan therefore propose that if the Regents will give the Bank a full discharge upon
its liabilities, amounting to $7,878.87, said assignees will release to
said Association the amount of its indebtedness to the Bank, being
$5,696.I8, and will also covenant, by good and satisfactory personal
security, to pay and; adjust the entire amount-due by said Association and for which the Trustees are liable to individuals, amounting
to the sum of $4,805.25,-thus making the aggregate which the Bank
has heretofore loaned with that now assumed, $Io,50I.43.
The Committee have requested an estimate of the cash value of
said lot, buildings, etc., from disinterested gentlemen alleged to be




22 24


FEBRUA RY MEETING, 1842;as good judges and of as high character as any other of our citizens,
who have expressed it as their judgment that the same are worth
$II,334. See Appendix "B."
Fifth. The Committee believe that no Legislative action will be
necessary.
In conclusion, your Committee recommend the adoption of the
following resolution:
Resolved, That Messrs. Kearsley, Richardson, and Pitcher, as a
Committee of this Board, be and they are hereby authorized to:settle with and release 'the Bank of Michigan of its indebtedness to
this Board, on condition that said Bank shall first make or procure
to be made to the Board, a good and sufficient title to the Female
Seminary lot in the City of Detroit.
Respectfully submitted,
J. KEARSLEY,
Z. PITCHER,
Detroit, Feb. 3d, 1842.           Committee.
Appendix "A."
The Bank of Michigan in account with the Regents of the University-of Micligan.
1842.
Feb. 3-To 8 per cent. on $I,286.99, being excess of premium charged on that sum
Sept. 2Ist, I840, as per Bank Statem ent.............................  105.54
To 8 per cent. on $3000 being excess
as above charged June 30th, I841..   240.00
To 8 do. do. on, $II75.07........       96.36
To Interest for 23 days on $Ioo,ooo
short credited in Bank Statement....  441.10   883.00
1842.
Feb. 3-By excess of interest heretofore allowed to the University by the Bank in
balancing the a/c Nov. 30th, 1841..   10.98
Balance............................  872.02    883.00
Note. The Select Committee, in submitting the above account
(under the resolution of the 3Ist ult.) would remark that no other
differences of opinion exist between the assignees of the Bank and
the Committee, than that which arises from the uncertainty of data
upon which the then bookkeeper of the Bank founded his charges
and credits of interest account. That gentleman is now absent,
but on his return will devote his attention to the subject and submit
the result to such Committee as the Regents may authorize to make
full and final settlement with the Bank.
J. KEARSLrY, Chairman.
February 3d, 1842.
A pp e di.v. "B."
The undersigned being requested to state their opinion of the
present fair cash value of the lot and building owned by the Female Seminary on Campus Martius in Detroit, remark that the said
lot is 280 feet long onGriswold Street, I4 feet on Lafayette Street,
149 feet on Michigan Avenue, 237 feet on Campus Martius, Io feet:on Fort Street and contains between I8,ooo and I9,000 square feet




FEBRUARY M1~EETING, 1842


225


of ground; that the house is a substantial brick building four stories
high, including the basement finished throughout for the purpose of
a boarding school, and that we estimate the fair cash value of the
whole property to be $II,334.
D. COOPER,
SHUBEL CONANT,
Detroit, Feb. Ist, 1842.  JOHN. PALMER.
The said report and resolution were thereupon, on motion, adopted.
M\r. Trowbridge, from    the Committee on Finance, to
whom was recommitted the report of said Committee on the
claim of Maj. Kearsley, with instructions, made the following report.
The Committee on Finance to whom was recommitted the
claim of Jonathan Kearsley, agent of the Board of Regents negotiating the loan of $Ioo,ooo. in Bonds of the State of Michigan,
with instructions, respectfully report,
That they find in the Journal of the Board a full statement of
the services rendered by Major Kearsley in consideration, of which
this claim has been presented, in a report read and laid on the table
July 17th, I838, to which your Committee respectfully ask leave to
refer.
Your Committee would also state that, in their opinion, inasmuch as Major Kearsley acted as the agent and not as a member
of a Committee in behalf of the Regents, he has a legal right to
charge for services thus rendered.
Your Committee being of this opinion and having in mind the
precedent established in the history of the State, would again recommend the allowance of one-fourth of one per cent. on the amount
of Bonds disposed of by said Kearsley, all of which is respectfully
submitted.
C. C. TROWBRIDGE,
Z. PITCHER,
February 3rd, 1842.             Committee on Finance.
The report being under consideration, and the question
being upon granting an allowance to the claimant of onefourth of one per cent. upon $ioo',ooo for negotiating the
loan of $Ioo,ooo, the same was decided in the negative by
yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Draper, Duffield, and Trowbridge. 3.
Nays: Messrs. Ransom, Fletcher, Owen, and Barry. 4.
On motion, Major Kearsley was excused from        voting
upon the question.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the resolutions laid upon
the table by him at the last meeting were taken up for con



226  SECOND FEBRUARY MEETING, I842


sideration, and on motion of Judge Fletcher, the same were
laid upon the table.
The Board then, on motion, adjourned to i5th Feb. instant.
SECOND FEBRUARY MEETING, 1842.
Detroit, Feb. i5th, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Pr;esent: Maj. Kearsley, Dr. Pitcher, Rev. Kundig, Rev.
Duffield, and Mr. Owen.
A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned until
Thursday evening, the I7th, instant.
Detroit, Feb. I7th, I842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Duffield, Trowbridge, Pitcher, Farnsworth, and Owen.
A quorum   not being present, the Board adjourned to
Saturday g9th, instant.
Detroit, February 9Ith, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present:   Governor Barry, Chief     Justice  Fletcher,
Messrs. Duffield, Pitcher, Trowbridge, Kearsley, Kundig,
and Owen.
The Minutes of the 3rd February were read and approved.
The protest of Mr. Duffield presented by him    on the
3Ist January last, and laid upon the table, was, on motion,
taken up and ordered to be entered upon the Journal of the
Proceedings of the Board.
The undersigned respectfully enters his protest against the
resolution of the Board adopted the 24th ult. relative to the Principals of the Branches, requiring them to report the amount of
tuition received from each scholar and to pay the excess of the
same, if any, over the rates established by the Board some years
since, into the Treasury of the Board, and request that it may be
entered on record for the following reasons.
ist. When the system of Branches was changed in January,
1841, so as to appropriate from and after August of that year the
sum of $500 per annum to each Branch instead of paying a full
sarary as before to the Principals and Assistants severally, it was
distinctly understood that the Board would not require the Princi



SECOND FEBRUARY MIEETING, I842


227


pals to adhere to the prices of tuition as they had been established
under that system, but leave the Principals to make such changes
as they should judge best, the Board declining all responsibility on
the premises, all dictation, either to Principals or patrons of the
Branches, in a matter which they were judged best competent to
determine.
2nd. The Principals of the Branches were to look no longer
for aid from the Board for the employment of Tutors and Assistants nor for the payment of their former salaries, but in view of
the reduction of their salaries by the Board to a mere appropriation
of $500. per annum, of the uncertainty as to the number of pupils
and the amount of tuition and especially of the obligation of the
Principals to employ and pay out of their own pockets the Tutors
and Assistants requisite fully and faithfully to carry out the course
of instruction prescribed for the Branches, it was understood to
be but appropriate and just that the entire amount of tuition should
be conceded to the Principal on his own, and that consequently the
sole responsibility of graduating the prices and collecting the
amount of tuition should devolve on the Principals and that the
Board should have no further care or responsibility on the prices
and collection of tuition.
3rd. Although no specific resolution was drafted and adopted
by the Board to the effect as above stated,-' yet it was frequently
admitted by the members at the meetings of the Boardl that such
were the facts, and accordingly the Committee on Branches, through
their Chairman, gave such information to the Principals, and most
especially and formally as an inducement to his acceptance of the
appointment as Principal by the Committee to Mr. Meigs, the
Principal of the Branch of Detroit, so that the requisition of the
Board, in the resolution protested against becomes a disturbance
of contracts virtually and formally made, and in the judgment of
this protestant subjects the Board to the charge of injustice in 'the
violation of their own contract.
4th. Nothing was ever said at any of the meetings of the
Board and no instructions ever given to the Committee of Branches
to inform the Principals that they must not exceed the prices of
tuition as established under the salary system. The Committee
of Branches never so informed them, nor did they ever imagine
that they were so required to inform them, nor did a member of that
Committee or the Board to the knowledge of this protestant ever
drop the idea, that a maximum price of tuition was fixed by the
Board, and the right of graduating prices conceded to the Principals was confined only to their reduction, until the recent proced:ure in reference to the Branch at Detroit and the claim of
Mr. Meigs.
Detroit, January 31st, 1842.  (Signed) G:o. DurlIELD.
The resolution laid upon the table by Maj. Kearsley
on the 3Ist January last relative to the Principal of the
Detroit Branch, was, on motion, taken up for consideration
and the same was adopted.
The resolution, laid upon the table by M\'aj. Kearsley
on the 31st January last, relative to the appropriations to




228  SECON;D FEBRUARY M1EETING, I842


the Branches, was, on motion of Dr. Pitcher, taken up for
consideration.
IMr. Duffield moved the following as a substitute for
the resolution:
WHIRrAS, The Board of Regents have for three successive years
represented to the Legislature the necessity of such changes to be
made in the Organic Laws of the University as would give the
Board more efficiency and especially enable them, if not to attend
to the collection of the revenue of the University, at least to
know with certainty what portion of that revenue might be annually expected, and
'VJHERZAS, The Board have remonstrated against the action of
the Legislature on the reduction of the maximum price of lands
and the measures affecting the revenue, believing that they would
certainly and necessarily operate to the injury of the University, and
WHMEREAS, Further, the Legislature have not judged it expedient
to meet the wishes of the Regents and relieve them from the embarrassments they anticipated by giving them the responsibility and
empowering them  through the appropriate fiscal offices of the
State to require the collection of the interest due on the sale of
the land of the University; and
\WHEREAS, The revenue of the University has rapidly diminished
since the Legislative action above referred to, so that now the
Board having expended the loan in the erection of buildings, the
procurement of Mineralogical Cabinet, and Library, and the support
of Branches for several years so supported, and being without the
pecuniary means with which to meet large amounts that are due,
and without any certain prospect of receiving any funds, or being
able directly or indirectly to secure their collection, are consequently
totally unable to meet their obligations to the gentlemen in their
employment as Principals of Branches, and Professors of the
University, therefore:
Resolved, That while it gives the Board deep pain to be under
the necessity of doing so, yet do they feel bound to give information to the Principals of the Branches and the Professors of the
University that the Board are totally without means to meet their
engagements to them and without all legal ability to attend to,
advise, coerce, or in any way superintend and manage the collection of the revenue of the University.
Resolved, further, That a copy of this preamble and resolution
be transmitted to each of the gentlemen referred to and published
in the newspapers of the City of Detroit, so that the Principals,
Professors, students, and public may be fully advised of the condition of the University'and suffer no disappointment in any expectations they may now entertain of the permanence or continuance
of the University and its Branches.
On motion of Judge Fletcher, the resolutions were
referred to a Select Committee of three, with instructions
to report to the next Quarterly Meeting.
The Chair announced the following as said Committee,
Messrs. Pitcher, Owen, and Duffield.




APRIL JMEETING, I842


229


On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That so much of the resolution adopted on the I3th
July, I839, as requires stated quarterly meetings to be held at
Ann Arbor on the first Tuesdays of April, July, and October in
each year, be rescinded and that the same be held at Detroit until
otherwise ordered.
On motion of Major Kearsley
Resolved, That *the Auditing Committee le instructed to audit
no account 'for a per diem allowance, nor for travelling expenses
to any member of the Board of Regents beyond the actual disbursements of such Regent unavoidably incurred in attending the meeting of the Board.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Auditing Committee presented
the account of William Draper, Esq., Regent of the University for travel and expenses in attending meetings of the
Board, and requested the instructions of the Board as to
the allowance to be made to him; and, on motion of Judge
Fletcher, the account was recommitted to the Auditing Committee with instructions to audit the same in accordance
with the resolution of Maj. Kearsley, adopted this day, instructing the said Committee relative to auditing! accounts
of members of the Board.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, presented
the account of said Committee for postage, etc., amnounting
to $20.27, which was allowed by the Board and a warrant
ordered to be issued for the amount.
The Board, on motion, adjourned to the 1st Tuesday of
April next.
APRIL MEETING, 1842.
Detroit, April 5th, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher,
Duffield, Owen, Revs. Crane and Fitch, VWm. A. Fletcher,
and Chancellor M/anning. (Messrs. Crane and Fitch were
appointed at the last session of the Legislature. M\r. Manning having lately been appointed Chancellor, Mr. Fletcher
was appointed Regent in his place).
The M/inutes of the last meeting' were read and approved,
Maj. Kearsley, from the Select Committee to whom it
was referred to settle with and release the Bank of Mlich



230


APRIL MlEETING, 1842


igan from its indebtedness to the Board of Regents, on
condition that the Bank would make or procure a good and
sufficient title to the Female Seminary lot in Detroit, reported a resolution, adopted by the Common Council of the
City of Detroit on the 4th March, 1842, authorizing the
Trustees of the Association for the Promotion of Female
Education in the City of Detroit to convey the lot referred
to in the resolution of reference to the Board of Regents,
with a promise that the Board of Regents be required to
continue a school in the City of Detroit for the promotion
of Female Education, together with a deed unexecuted to
the Regents from the said Trustees in accordance with the
above resolution of the Common Council, and asked to be
instructed, whether to perfect said deed as provided in the
resolution of said Common Council.
Dr. Pitcher moved that the Committee be instructed to
perfect the deed as above provided, which motion was decided in the negative by yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Dr. Pitcher.
Nays: Messrs. Barry, Crane, Duffield, Fitch, Fletcher.
Kearsley, Manning, and Owen.
Maj. Kearsley moved that the whole subject be referred
to Chancellor Manning, with instructions to, endeavor to
perfect the title to said lot, which was decided in the negative byl yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Kearsley and Pitcher.
Nalys: Messrs. Barry, Crane, Duffield, Fitch, Fletcher,
Manning, and Owen.
On motion of Judge Fletcher, the whole subject was
recommitted to the Committee with instructions to negotiate
further with the Bank of Michigan on the subject.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Select Committee to whom was
referred the resolution of Maj. Kearsley laid on the table
on the 31st January last, relative to appropriations to the
Branches, with the substitute offered by Mr. Duffield on
the IQth February last, made the following report:
The Special Committee to whom was referred the preamble and
resolution offered by Mr. Duffield on the Igth of February, I842,
as a substitute for the resolution of Maj. Kearsley, then under
consideration, beg leave as a part of their report to present the
following abstract of laws relating to the University, its Branches,
and its revenues.




APRIL ilEETING, I842


23I


Ist. An Act to provide for the Organization and Government
of the University of Michigan; approved March I8th, 1837.
2nd. An Act to locate the University of Michigan; approved
March 20th, I837.
3rd. An Act to provide for the disposition of the University
and Primary School Lands; approved March 2Ist, 1837.
4th; An Act to amend an Act entitled, "An Act to provide for
the Organization and Government of the University of Michigan";
approved June 2Ist, 1837.
5th. An Act to amend an Act entitled, "An Act to provide
for the disposition of the University and Primary School Lands;".approved June 23rd, I837.
6th. An Act releasing to the United States fourteen sections
in the Niles and sections twenty-five and twenty-six in the Nottawassippi Reserves upon certain conditions; approved March 20th,
I838.
7th. An Act to extend the time of payment of the University
and School Moneys; approved April 6th, 1838.
8th. An Act to authorize a loan of a certain sum; approved
April 6th, 1838.
9th. An Act to provide for the payment of the expenses of
the Regents of the University in certain cases, approved Feb. I4th,
1839.
ioth. An Act to extend the time of payment of the University
and School Moneys; approved March 4th, 1839.
IIth. An Act to provide for the sale of certain lands to the
settlers thereon; approved March 25th, 1840.
I2th. An Act to amend, "An Act to extend the time of payment for the University and School Lands;" approved March 30th,
1840.
I3th. An Act to reduce the price of the University and School
Lands and for other purposes; approved April I3th, I841.
I4th. An Act to reduce the price of University and School
Lands; approved April 15th, 1842.
i5-th. An Act to provide for the sale of certain lands to the
persons therein named; approved February 9th, 1842.
The foregoing schedule constitutes the sum  of Legislationr
affecting the University of Michigan, with the exception of two
joint resolutions, one of which relates to public documents and the
other required the Board of Regents to report to the Legislature
to be convened in 184I, "What changes are necessary to be made
in the Organic Law of the State relative to said University in
order to secure more effectually the objects of the same."
By the Act of March 2Ist, I837, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction was authorized to sell at public auction so much of the
University Lands as shall amount to the sum of $50o,000 at the
minimum price of $20. per acre, one-fourth of the purchase money
to be paid down, the remainder in annual installments of five per
cent. commencing in five years from the sale, at an interest of
seven per cent. 'to be paid annually. In June of that year, this Act
was so amended as to require only one-tenth of the purchase money
to be paid at the time of sale and one-tenth annually thereafter.
\vith interest on the amount unpaid; and when in the opinion of




232


APRIL MtEETING, 1842


the Superintendent of Public 'Instruction, one-tenth of the purchase money did not sufficiently secure the interest of the State,
he was authorized to require additional security of the purchaser.
The Act of March 20th, 1838, was never carried into effect, the
person named therein as the executor of the law   declining for
obvious reasons to perform the duties required of him.
From the report of the Rev. J. D. Pierce, Superintendent of
Public Instruction, it appears that there were University Lands sold
in I837 amounting to $I50,447.90, at the average price of $22.85
per acre.
In April (the 6th) of I838, the time of payment of the University and School Moneys was extended to December next ensuing.
upon condition, in the opinion of the Superintendent, not prejudicial
to the said funds respectively. By the Act of March 4th, 1839, all
delinquencies were cured which took place in December I838, if the
delinquent made payment by the first day of May, 1839. All further
payments were extended to the first day of December, I839, "at
which time, on the payment of all interest then due and enough of
the principal to make twenty per cent. with what shall have been
paid theretofore, the, said Superintendent may suspend further
payments one year from that time, at which he may receive the
interest and five per cent. of the principal to be paid by the first
day of December, I840."
Up to this period in the history of the University no measures
had been consummated tending directly to lessen the resources of
the Institution, although the Regents had experienced embarrassments growing out of the delays in the payments of the interest due
on the University Fund, annually legalized by the Legislature, on the
prompt and regular receipt of which the success of their efforts
essentially depends. Subsequently, however, in the opinion of your
Committee Acts have been passed productive of very different
results.
Under the Act of March 25th, 1840, which provides for the
sale of certain lands to the settlers thereon, 4,743.I2 acres of appraised University Lands were sold at the average price of $6.2I
per acre. In the year I84I, 367.66 acres of University Lands were
sold at an average price of $I7. per acre. During the same year
as appears from the Report of F. Sawyer, Jr., Esq., Superintendent
of Public Instruction, there were sold 60o acres of appraised University Lands at $8. per acre, and of the forfeited lands resold,
168.32 acres at an average price of $I9.52 per acre. Now, when it
is borne in mind that the agent appointed by the Legislature to
relocate the sixteen sections of University Lands in lieu of those
proposed to be relinquished to the United States by the Act of
March 20th, 1838, found the faithful execution of his trust to be
impracticable because there were no surveyed lands, unlocated, as
valuable as those already selected, and that the average price of
lands sold in 1840 when the state of the times was equally unfavorable, was $I7., whilst that of the appraised lands sold in I840,
was $6.21, and in 1841 only $8. per acre. Whereas the forfeited
lands resold in 184I brought $I9.52 per acre, your Committee would
respectfully inquire, if it be not the duty of the Board, who are
liable to be charged with all the responsibility attached to a failure
on the part of the University to meet the just expectations of the
public, at all times firmly to remonstrate against such evident mis



APRIL MEETING, 1842


233


application of the grant and by an undisguised exposition of its
affairs to place the accountability for maladministration of the
trust where it properly belongs?
Another Act to extend the time of payment for University and
School lands was approved March 30th, I840. The Legislature
elected to serve for 1841 and for 1842, which under the Constitution
becomes for the time being, the Trustees of the University Fund,
have each passed an Act to reduce the minimum price of University
Lands, the former to $15 and the latter to $12. per acre. Your
Committee will not here stop to question the wisdom or the expediency of these measures, could they be made to work equitably,
believing as they do that the price was originally too high. They
will, however, record their regret that the movements for the
accomplishment of these measures should so generally have eman'
ated from sources having interests antagonistic to the University.
On a careful review of the Legislation touching the financial
relations of the University, your Committee find that on the
return of each political year some step has been taken tending to
embarrass the operations of this Board, either by authorizing delay
in the payments of the sums of interest annually due, on the prompt
receipt and due application of which the vitality of the University
depends, or by granting qualified pre-emption claims in direct contravention of the laws of the United States, whereby the principal
and consequently the interest of the Funds were diminished. It
is therefore in their opinion unsafe for the Board to enter into
any engagements involving pecuniary responsibility.  For these
reasons your Committee would recommend the adoption of the
resolution referred to them, and the preamble as amended.
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCHER,
J. OWECN,
GEo. DurFFELD,
Detroit, April 5th, I842.                  Committee.
On motion of Mr. Fletcher, the consideration of the
report and resolutions was postponed until the next meeting.
Dr. Pitcher presented an application of Patrick Kelly,
Janitor of the University Buildings, for leave to, occupy the
basement of one of the Professors' houses at Ann Arbor,
and, on motion, the request was granted, if the occup:tion
of said room did not affect the insurance.
On motion of Mr. Duffield, the Secretary was instructed
to correspond with the Superintendent of Public Instruction
on the subject of the Funds, both interest and principal of
the University, the probable amount of funds to be received
by him   during the next three months; also, during the
year, and what has been paid up to and since the time limited
by law.




234


MAY MEETING, 1842


Dr. Pitcher presented the account of Geo. P. Williams
and Joseph Whiting for balance of salary in advance to
August, 1842, and asked for a warrant for the amount then
due. The motion to order the issuing of warrants as designated was decided in the negative.
The Chair announced Mr. Owen as one of the Auditing
Committee in place of Judge Wilkins whose term of office
has expired.
Also Mr. MIanning as one of the Committee on Finance
in place of M\r. Trowbridge whose term of office has expired.
On motion the Board adjourned to the i8th instant, 7
o'clock P. M.
Detroit, April I8th, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Manning, Whipple,
IKearsley, Pitcher, and Owen.
No quorum   being present, the Board adjourned till
Saturday, April 30th.
Detroit, April 30th, I842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Maj. Kearsley, Dr. Pitcher,
and Mr. Owen.
No quorum   being present, the Board adjourned till
Tuesday, May 3rd, 1842.
MAY \MEETINGS, 1842.
Detroit, May 3rd, I842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Duffield and Morell.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned till Saturday evening, 28th day of May inst.
Detroit, May 28th, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Duffield, Kundig, Fitch,
Morell, Manning, and Pitcher.
On motion, Maj. Kearsley was appointed President
pro temp ore.




MAY MEETING, 1842


235


The Proceedings of last meeting were read and ap-proved.
Dr. Pitcher, from   the Committee on Branches, presented the reports of the Principals of the Kalamazoo,
White Pigeon, Tecumseh, and Detroit Branches and of
the Professors of the University having charge of the
Preparatory Department of the University at Ann Arbor.
Dr. Pitcher also presented to the Board two letters from
Dr. Asa Gray tendering his resignation of the Professorship
to which he had been appointed on the I7th July, I838, and
giving in explanation of the fact, that he had accepted an
appointment from the Trustees of the Harvard College before he had heard of the action of the Board on his resignation; whereupon, the Board
Resolved, That the Board accept the resignation of Dr. Asa
Gray of his Professorship of Botany, and in doing so express their
regret that -the unavoidable delay in opening the University and
the embarrassed condition of the finances of the Board for the
last two years, from which they have not yet been fully extricated,.should have proved the occasion of their losing the services in the
University of Michigan of a gentleman whose scientific attainments
and qualifications as a Professor they have very highly estimated,.and which they are happy to know' have been appreciated by one,of the oldest and most valued of our American Colleges.
Major Kearsley, from   the Select Committee appointed
to.settle with the Bank of Michigan, and to whom      the
proposition of said Bank, reported to the Board at the last
meeting on the 5th April last, was recommitted, with instructions to negotiate further with said Bank, reported a
further proposition made by the Trustees of said Bank for.settlement with the Board, which report was, on motion ot
Maj. Kearsley, laid on the table.
The President presented a communication from        the
State Treasurer on the subject of the interest due upon the
State Bonds loaned to the University of Michigan, and, on
-motion of Mr. Manning, it was:
Resolved, That the President of the Board be instructed to
issue a warrant on the Treasurer of the University in favor of the
State Treasurer for a sum sufficient to pay the interest and charges
due on the State Bonds loaned the University, due on the Ist January last.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the Secretary was instruct-.ed to inform the Superintendent of Public Instruction that




236


JUNTE AMEETIANG, 1842


the Board will not receive anything from him on account of
interest due on University Lands sold, except gold and silver or its equivalent.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That a warrant be issued in favor of Dr. Houghton
bearing date, May 4th, 1842, for $200. upon his requisition, approved
by the Auditing Committee, out of the appropriation of $500 made
to him on the 20th December last.
On motion of IMr. Fitch,
Resolved, That from and after the 6th August next, a sum not
exceeding the rate of $200. per annum be and 'the same is hereby
appropridted for the support of the Principal of each of the
Branches of the University now in operation for the ensuing year.
except the Professors at Ann Arbor, and that the Committee on
Branches give notice of this resolution to the Principals of said
Branches.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be instructed to
report to the Board a course of Mathematical studies to be pursued
in the University.
On motion, the Board adjourned till Saturday evening,
the 4th June next.
JUNE MEETINGS, 1842.
Detroit, 4th June, r842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Duffield, Morell, Pitcher,
and Owen.
No quorum present, the Board adjourned till Monday,
3 o'clock P.. M., the 6th June, I842.
Detroit, June 6th, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Maaj. Kearsley,.in the Chair, Messrs. Owen,
Duffield, Whipple, Manning, Kundig, and Fitch.
The Proceedings of /lay 28th were read and approved.
The President of the Board presented the accounts of D. S.
Hickox amounting to $18.74, and James W. Thomas, amounting to
$34.72, for fixtures, labor, etc., 'for University Buildings at Ann
Arbor. On motion, the accounts of the above named individuals




JULY MEETING, 1842


237


were allowed, and the President instructed the Secretary to draw
a warrant in favor of the persons named for the amount due to each
of them respectively.
On motion of Justice Whipple,
Resolved, That Dr. Abram Sager, be and he is hereby appointed
Professor of Botany and Zoology in the University of Michigan
in the place of Dr. Gray resigned, provided that no salary be
fixed or paid to him as such Professor until the further order of
the Board.
Mr. Kundig presented a communication from Dr. Louis
Cavalli, relative to a society for the promotion of literature
and fine arts, which on motion, was referred to a Select
Committee of three, with power to recommend the same to
the patronage of the citizens of this State. The Chair appointed the following as said Committee: Messrs. Kundig,
MIanning, and Fitch.
The Board then adjourned till the next Quarterly Meeting on the 5th July next.
TI-HIRD QUARTERLY MEETING FOR 1842.
July 5, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Fletcher, Pitcher,
Fitch, Crane, Duffield, Kearsley, and Owen.
The MAinutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher informed the Board that he had received
from the Bank of Michigan a quantity of chemical apparatus which he had transmitted to the Professor of Geology
and Mineralogy at Ann Arbor, with directions to him to
appraise the value of the same. The understanding with
the Bank was that the said apparatus should 'he appraised
and if satisfactory to the Board, the appraised value of the
same be allowed to them     on their indebtedness to the
Board.
It was then resolved that Professor Houghton be instructed to appraise said apparatus and report the appraisal
to this Board.
Maj. Kearsley laid upon the table the following:
Resolved, That whenever the Branches heretofore established
shall be organized by the employment of suitable teachers under the
supervision of this Board and the sum of two hundred dollars




238
2 


JULY MEETING, 1842


annually shall be appropriated to each of the following Branches,.
viz., in the Counties of Berrien, Monroe, Oakland, Jackson, and
Macomb.
Maj. Kearsley proposed the following which was adopted:
WHEREAS, The interest due by the University on the Ist instant
upon the Bonds loaned' to them by the State is due and unpaid,
therefore:
Resolved, That the Treasurer of this Board be instructed to
retain all moneys that may come into his hands until a sufficient
sum shall be received by him for the discharge of said interest, and
report to the President of this Board when such sum shall be in his
hands, who shall thereupon cause said interest to be paid.
On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Committee of Finance be directed to have
an interview with the State Officers and report to the Board their
views relative to the payment of moneys belonging to this Board
passing through their hands, and some plan that may prevent anymisunderstanding between them and this Board on the subject.
Mr. Fletcher presented the accounts of George McCollum  amounting to $27.37, and Charles Billings for $3,
which were allowed and warrants ordered to be issued for
the same. Also Michael Horrigan for extra services in getting out a stone from a well on the University grounds at
Ann Arbor, $27. which was disallowed.
The President presented a      communication    from   D.
Wadsworth, Esq., relative to University Lands in the vicinity of Toledo, Ohio, whereupon, on motion of Maj Kearsley:
Resolved, That the President of the Board be authorized to,
employ a special agent to look after the taxes, etc., connected with
said land, and that a warrant be drawn for such sum as may be
sufficient to pay the tax found due and expenses. The President
thereupon announced Maj. Kearsley as such agent.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Library of the University shall be open
for the admission of students on Saturday afternoon of each week
and that the Faculty may designate the person who shall be authorized to act in the place of the Librarian if it is impracticable for
him to be present on. that day of the week.
On motion, the Board adjourned till tomorrow at three:
o'clock in the afternoon, the 6th instant.




JULY MIEETITNG, 1842


239!


Detroit, July 6th, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presen t: Governor Barry     (President), Messrs. Kearsley, Fletcher, Crane, Fitch, Pitcher, Owen, and Duffield.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and
approved.
Maj. Kearsley, from     the Committee of Finance, submitted the following report:
1842                  Unliversity Fund                Cr.
January  20  By  Balance................................$,55oo
March    9 By Cash of Superintendent..................  757.88
April    4 By Cash of Superintendent..................  663.59
April   25 By Cash on certificate......................  III.44
In  all.....................$2,687.9I
1842               University Intlerest Fund          Cr.
January  20  By  Balance................................$  260.00
M arch   9  By  Cash  of  Supt.............................  1,558.I2
April    4  By  Cash  of  Supt...........................  717.10
April   13  By  Cash  of  Supt.............760..........   76.00
May      2  By  Cash  of  Supt............................ 2,090.42
May    o1 By Cash of Supt.............................   941.87
$5,643.51
Dr.
April    8 To Cash for fund...........................$2,217.22
June    14  To  Cash  for  fund........................... 2,700.00
Balance consisting of scrip before
April  8th.......................$318.00
Scrip of Supt. 2 May............... 333.00
Specie.............................  75.29  726.29
$5,643.5I
The President submitted to the Board of Regents a
communication    from   the  State Treasurer.     See tiles of
Proceedings, "Communications from State Treasurer."
Maj. Kearsley proposed the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Treasurer of this Board be requested to
return a warrant of the Auditor General of the State in his favor
for $318. or thereabouts in scrip, taking the proper voucher for
the same to the end that this Board may ultimately receive current
funds for the same, and that the further sum of $333. in scrip now
in the hands of the State Treasurer as University Interest Fund
money remain in his hands until this can in like manner be converted into current funds.




240


JULY JI EETIJNG, 1842


The resolution of Major Kearsley submitted to the
Board at the last meeting and laid upon the table was taken
up, for consideration.
Dr. Pitcher offered the following amendment, "That all
the names mentioned in the resolution be stricken out except Macomb,' which was decided in the negative by yeas
and nays.
Yeas: Messrs. Fletcher,' Fitch, and Pitcher.
iNays: Messrs. Crane, Duffield, Fitch, Owen, President.
On motion of Mr. Fletcher, the resolution was laid upon
the table by yeas and nays.
Yeas: Messrs. Crane, Fletcher, Fitch, Owen, President.
Nays: Messrs. Duffeld and Kearsley.
Mr. Fletcher offered the following resolution which was
adopted:
Resolved That the Superintendent of Public Instruction be:requested to furnish to the Board of Regents of the University as:soon as may be convenient, an account current of the Counties and
individuals indebted for interest on the sales of University Lands
and the afnounts due from each, together with his remarks as to the
probability of payment of the sums now due and of the same to
become due on or before the first day of March next. And, that
he also furnish an account of the receipts of interest before, on,
and since the first of March last.
On motion of Mr. Duffield, the report of the Select
Committee on the preamble and resolutions of Mr. Duffield
of the 5th of April last, was recommitted to the same Committee.
Mr. Fitch offered the following report:
The Committee to whom the communication of Dr. Cavalli
was referred beg leave respectfully to return the same to the Board
without report, having in common with other members of the Board
examined his collections in Natural Science, whereupon:
Resolved, That it is deemed inconsistent with the organization
of this Board to act upon said communication as such, however
disposed individually to foster the designs of Dr. Cavalli.
Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to furnish to Dr.
'Cavalli a copy of the above report and resolution.
On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the reduction of the salaries of certain officers
be referred to the Committee of Finance.




A UGUST lMEETi\NG, I842


24I


On motion the Board adjourned to the 3rd Tuesday of
August and ordered that the Secretary give at least ten
days previous notice to the members of the Board who do
not reside in the City of Detroit.
AUGUST MEETINGS, 1842.
Detroit, August i6th, I842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, President, Messrs. Pitcher,
Fletcher, and Owen. Nol quorum being present, on motion
the Board adjourned to Tuesday evening, the 3oth instant
at seven o'clock.
Detroit, August 3oth, I842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
PPresent: Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher,
Oween, Morell, Fitch, and Fletcher.
The Proceedings of the 6th of July were read and approved.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, presented
the report of the Principals of Detroit, Tecumseh, and Kalamazoo Branches for the term    ending August 6th, I842,
which were read and ordered to be placed on the files of the
Board.
Mr. Fletcher presented the following resolution:
WHEREAS, This Board adopted a resolution on the fifth day
of July last, instructing the Treasurer of this Board to retain all
moneys that may come into his hands until a sufficient sum should
be received by him for the discharge of the interest due by the
University on the first of July upon the Bond loaned by the State,
therefore:
Resolved, That said resolution be so modified as to authorize
the said Treasurer to pay any warrants drawn in favor of Professor George P. Williams and Joseph Whiting for services heretofore rendered as such Professors, and alos any warrants drawn.
in favor of Principals of Branches for services heretofore rendered.
Mir. Owen moved to, lay the same on the table, which
wvas lost.
The resolution was then adopted.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,




242


OCT'OBER 3MlEETING, 1842


Resolved, That Sophocles' Greek Grammar he added to the list
of Books authorized to be used in the University of Michigan.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Committee on Finance, made
the following report:
The Committee on Finance to whom was referred the matter
of retrenchment in the present appropriations of the Board of
Regents, respectfully report the following resolutions:
Resolved, That the annual compensation of $ioo. heretofore
allowed the Treasurer of said Board he discontinued from and
after this date.
Resolved. That the annual salary of the Secretary of said Board
from this date, shall not exceed $Ioo.
On motion of Judge Morell the report was laid upon
the table.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, reported
that the Committee had engaged the services of Rev. J. E,
Chaplin as Principal of the White Pigeon Branch, in the
place of Rev. Samuel Ne7wberry resigned, and Benjamin
Baxter as Principal of the Tecumseh Branch in the place
of Andrew Harvie resigned, subject to the approval of the
Board.
On motion, the report was adopted, and Messrs. Chaplin
and Baxter were respectively appointed Principals of the
Branches above designated.
On motion, the Board adjourned until the fourth Quarterly Meeting, first Tuesday of October next.
FOURTH OUARTFI'RLY MEETING FOR 1842.
Detroit, Oct. 4th, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presentt: Governor Barry, Messrs. Morell, Manning,
Fletcher, Crane, Fitch, Owen, Pitcher, Kearsley, and
Duffield.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and
approved.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, a Committee of three consisting' of Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher, and Owen, were appointed to, wait upon the old Board of Trustees of the
University of Michigan and receive from them the papers,
records, etc., now in the hands of the Secretary of the old
Board.




OCTOBER iIEEtTIANG, 1842


243


Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, to whom
was referred the memorial of the Principals of Branches
relative to a change in the By-Laws, respecting the terms
and vacations of Branches, made the following report which
was adopted:
Report of Cointittce oil Braolches.
The Committee on Branches, to whom     was committed the
application of certain of the Principals of the Branches for a
change in the laws regulating the terms, vacations, etc., respectfully report as follows:
Your Committee would recommend with special reference to
the wishes of the agricultural portions of the State, that Chapter
Four, Part One, of the By-Laws for the Government of Branches,
be so amended that the first term of the University year shall commence on the fourth Tuesday in August, the second on the first
Tuesday in December, the third on the first Tuesday in April, and
close on such Friday thereafter as shall make an average of about
fifteen weeks in each term. 'he Committee would also suggest the
expediency of modifying the vacations so that the first and second
terms shall be followed by a vacation of one week exclusive of
the Saturday and Monday next ensuing the close of the term, and
the third term by a vacation of six weeks commencing after the
anniversary exercises, which are to take place on the second Friday
of July.
To facilitate visiting home, and the admission of students
into the classes of each Branch at other times than at the commencement of the terms, the Committee would further advise the
division of each term  by a recess of three days, including the
Sabbath, into two parts as nearly equal as may be, and no holidays
shall be allowed during the terms except the Fourth of July and
twenty-fifth December and first of January.
Dr. Pitcher presented the account of Dr. Houghton for
clearing grounds, etc., about Professors' houses at Ann
Arbor, amounting to $22.21, which on motion of Mr. Fletcher was allowed and a warrant ordered to issue for same.
Dr. Pitcher also presented accounts of J. H. and E. R.
Haskell for paint, etc., about University Buildings amounting to $2.45, and of James WV. Thomas for joiners work,
etc., about same buildings amounting to $I1.25, which were
severally allowed and warrants ordered to be issued for
the amounts.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the Executive Committee
were instructed to take measures if possible for preventing
the smoking of fire places in the University Buildings at
_Ann Arbor.




244


OCTOBER MItEETING, 1842


On motion of Mr. Owen,
Resolved, That the admission fee into the University be and
is hereby fixed at the sum of $Io. unless otherwise ordered by the
Board, and that the Faculty be authorized to receive and pay the
same into the Treasury.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be directed to inquire
into and report upon the expediency of taking the preliminary
steps toward securing the services of a competent person to take
charge of the Professorships of Philosophy of the Human Mind,
and of Moral Philosophy, in the University of Michigan.
Maj. Kearsley moved that the sum of $200 be added to
the salary of each of the Professors of the University at
Ann Arbor to commence from the commencement of the
present term.
Mr. Crane moved to amend by striking out $200 and
inserting $Ioo in its stead, which motion. was decided in the
negative by yeas and nays, as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Crane, Fitch, Manning, and the President. 4.
Nays: Messrs. Duffield, Fletcher, Kearsley, Morell,
Owen and Pitcher. 6.
M\r. Manning moved to lay the motion on the table until
the next quarterly meeting, which motion was decided in the
negative by yeas and nays, as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Crane, Fitch, Manning, Owen, and the
President.  5.
NTays: Messrs. Duffield, Fletcher, Kearsley, Morell, and
Pitcher. 5.
The question recurring on the original motion, the same
was decided in the negative by yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Duffield, Fletcher, Kearsley, Morell, and
Pitcher. 5.
NaTys: Messrs. Crane, Fitch, Manning, Owen, and the
President. 5.
Dr. Pitcher moved by unanimous consent that the sum
of $Ioo be added to the salaries respectively of Professors
Whiting and Williams, Professors in the University at Ann
Arbor, to commence from the commencement of the present
term, which motion was decided in the affirmative.
Dr. Pitcher moved that the Select Committee appointed




NO VEilLBER lLMEETINTG, 1842


245


to settle with the Bank of Michigan be authorized in their
discretion to receive from the Bank State Warrants, one
half at least to be in warrants on the Internal Improvement
Fund, which motion was decided in the affirmative.
The report of the Select Committee made by M\aj. Kearsley at the last meeting of the Board, was taken up for
consideration. The question being on the second resolution, on motion, the sum of $50 was stricken out and $ioo
inserted. The resolution was then adopted.
The question on the first resolution was decided in the
affirmative. The third resolution was withdrawn.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the Executive Committee
were authorized to procure a roof to be placed over the
wood yard at the Main University Building.
On motion of Mr. Fletcher,
Resolved, That the Treasurer of the University shall hereafter
give a bond in the sum of $4,000.
On like motion,
Resolved, That in the event of a vacancy in the office of Treasurer, the President of the Board be authorized to fill such vacancy
until the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of same, a Committee of three, consisting of
Messrs. Fletcher, Duffield, and Fitch were appointed to prepare the Annual Report of the Regents to the Superintendent of Public Instruction. Also, the several standing
Committees of the Board were instructed to prepare and
hand to the Chairman of the above Select Committee their
reports within thirty days from this date.
The Board then adjourned to the 29th Novembler next.
NOVE MBIER MIEETING, 1842.
Detroit, Nov. 29th, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Crane, Duffield, Owen, Manning, Miorell, and Kearsley.
A quorum not being present, the Board adjourned to
the 6th of December next at 6:3o o'clock, P. M.




246           DECEM.1BER -ME$ETING, I184
DECEM BER MEETING, 1842.
Detroit, Dec. 6th, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Richardson, Messrs. Pitcher, Duffield, Kearsley, Owen, Manning,
and MIorell.
The Minutes of the meeting of the 4th October last were
read and approved.
Maj. Kearsley, from     the Committee on Finance, to
whom it was referred to negotiate for a settlement with the
Bank of Michigan, reported a proposition from      the Trustees of the said Bank for a settlement, which report was, on
motion, recommitted to the same Committee with instructions to make such settlement as to them shall seem just and
proper.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, made the
following Annual Report:
Report of the Cllommittee on Biranchcs.
The Committee on Branches, in compliance with the instructions of the Board, submit their Annual Report of the State of
the Branches at the close of the University year which expired on
the 6th of August, I842.
At the date of the last Annual Report there was a Branch
of the University in each of the following places, open for the
admission of pupils, to which the name of the Principal and the
number of pupils then in attendance are annexed:
Detroit      Rev. M. Meigs, Principal, No. of pupils.......... 24
Kalamazoo    Rev. Wm. Dutton, Principal, No. of pupils, male
and' female...............................  83
White Pigeon Rev. S. Newberry, Principal, No. of pupils, male
and  female...............................  37
Tecumseh     Mr. Andrew Harvie, Principal, No. of pupils, male
and  fem ale...............................  43
Ann Arbor    Profs. Williams and Whiting, Principals, No. of
pupils,  male  and  female................... 23
Total....................  2I
of which fifty-four were females.
During the year just expired, pecuniary considerations induced
the Board of Regents to reduce the appropriations made for sustaining the Branches to $200 for each Branch per annum, exclusive
of tuition fees. This measure, together with ithe loss of health on




DECEM1BER MfEETING, 1I842


247


the part of Mr. Newberry, led to the resignation of the Principals
at Tecumseh and White Pigeon. Mr. Benjamin Baxter, an eleve of
the University, and the Rev. J. E. Chaplin have been appointed in
their places.
Owing to the change in the administration of the Branch at
White Pigeon, the returns from that Branch are incomplete. The
following statement of the condition of the Branches at the close
of the last academic year, is as perfect as the reports in the hands
of the Committee enabled: them to make it.
Detroit Branch-Rev. M. Meigs, Principal; number of
pupils.............................................        2I
Kalamazoo Branch-Rev. Win. Dutton, Principal; number
of pupils...................................................... 65
White Pigeon Branch-Rev. S. Newberry, Principal; numb er   o f   pu pils..................................................  35
Tecumseh Branch-Andrew Harvie, Principal; number of
pupils........................................................  26
Ann Arbor Branch-Profs. Williams and Whiting, Principals;  num ber  of  pupils........................................ 27
Total  num ber  of  pupils.................................... I74
In the Department of Languages, IIo.
The Committee take this occasion to express their belief that
the Branches of the University for the past year have sustained
their character for thorough and accurate instruction.
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCHER,
J. KIARSLI;Y,
Gwo. DurFI]LD,
Detroit, November I, I842.      Committee on Branches.
M aj. Kearsley   presented   a communication     from   W.
Lawrence respecting the Branch at Monroe, which was
laid on the table.
Dr. Pitcher presented a communication, from Jno. Lester
respecting a grant of certain land to the Regents at Utica,
Mfacomb Co., which was committed to the Committee on
Branches with instructions to cause the proper conveyance
to be made to Mr. Lester.     Also, a like communication of
E. B. Bostwick, of Grand Rapids, same action and same
reference.
Mr. Duffield, from   the Executive Committee, to whom
was referred the resolution inquiring into the expediency of
appointing a Professor of the Moral Sciences made the following report.
The Executive Committee, to whom         was referred the
subject of appointing another Professor, report:




248           DECEM'1BER M/EETING, 1842
That in their judgment the increased number of students ill
the University and the consequent increase of labor and engagements on the part of the Professors of Languages and Mathematics, the advancement in study by the youth of the Sophmore
Class together with the general interests of the Institution render it
desirable that as soon as practicable the services of some competent Professor should be secured to take charge of the studies
in the Moral Sciences. Rhetoric, Logic, Composition and Declamation by the students, together with Belles-Lettres studies in general,
should early engage the attention of the students and are necessary
to be prosecuted to prepare the way for the higher branches of
Intellectual and Moral Science. The Committee are of opinion that
it is important to provide speedily for these studies, and having
had their attention directed to the Rev. Mr. Edward Thomson.
formerly of this city, as a gentlemen well qualified to take charge of
the classes in them, they recommend, if the Board judge it expedient, that a correspondence be commenced with him, with a
view to ascertain whether his services can be procured and that the
same be reported to the Board.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the Executive Committee
were instructed to correspond with the Rev. Mr. Edward
Thomson on the subject of the above report.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee enquire into and report
what proceedings, if any, are necessary to enable the members of
the Board to receive pay for their expenses in attending meetings
of the Board.
On motion, adjourned until Thursday evening, the 8th
instant.
Detroit, Dec. 8th, I842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Owen, MIorell, Manning, Pitcher, and Duffield.
A  communication was received from      Mr. Fletcher enclosing certain documents sent his as Chairman of the Committee to prepare the Annual Report, setting forth certain
reasons why he had not prepared said Report, and on motion
of Maj. Kearsley, said communication was referred to
Messrs. Duffield, Pitcher, and Kearsley, with instructions
to prepare the Annual Report to the Superintendent of
Public Instruction.
On motion, adjourned till Monday evening, the i2th.
instant.




DECEMlIBER il/EETIfNG, 1842


249


Detroit, Dec. 12, 1842.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Manning,
Pitcher, Duffield, Morell, and Owen.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Executive Committee, made the
following report:
Alexander H. Sibley, Treasurer, in account current with the Board
of Regents of the University of Michigan.
1841
Nov. 30-To bal. on hand this day............   $813.08
1842
Apr. 8-To warrant of Aud. Gen'l...........     2,217.22
June 13-To warrant of Aud. Gen'l...........   2,700.00
Aug. 2-To warrant of Aud. Gen'l...........      54.47
Sept. 24-To warrant of Aud. Gen'l...........   6I.9o
Sept. 30-To warrant of Aud. Gen'l...........     45.99
Oct. 7-To warrant of Aud. Gen'l...........   3,335.oo
Nov. 30-To warrant of Aud. Gen'l...........   I,081.87


1842
Nov. 30-By amt. of warrants drawn by the
Board of Regents from Dec. ist,
I84I, to Nov. 30, I842, inclusive, as


$I0,959.53


per statement herewith.............        $I,I42.95
Nov. 30-By balance in hands of Treasurer...              816.57
$I0,959.53
Reported to the Board of Regents by their Committee on Finance.


J. KTARSLE'Y,
Z. PITCHER,
RANDOLPH MANNING,
Finance Committee.


Detroit, Dec. Ist, 1842.


General abstract of all expenditures made by the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan from Dec. I, 1841, to November 30, 1842, inclusive.
Date No. of Warrant In Whose Favor                      Amount
1841
Dec. 31-248-Geo. P. Williams, services Prof. Univ.....   $I25.00
1842


Jan. I2-249-Andrew Harvie, salary, Principal Tecumseh
Branch, term ending Dec. 31, I84I........
Jan. 31-250-P. Kelly, Janitor Univ. at Ann Arbor from
25 Sept. to 25 Nov., 184I, $IO per month..
Feb. 2-25 A. Ten Eyck, part salary as Sec. of Board
Feb. 3-252-Dawson & Bates for printing..............
Feb. 8-253-M. Meigs, salary, Principal Detroit Branch
6  m onths..............................
Feb. 21-254-Com. on Branches for postage to Feb. 28,
1842....................................


i66.66
20.00
75.00
28.75
250.00
20.27




250           DECEIBER         IIEETTI'NG, 184
Mar. 15 -255-Louis Schleicher, labor on a cistern and
desk at University Buildings.............     5.63
Mar. I9-256-H. Colclazer, salary as Librarian     from
May I, I84I, to Apr. 30, I842, $oo00, and
freight paid by him on public documents,
etc.,  $I0.20.............................  110.20
Apr. 5-258-A. Ten Eyck, salary in part as Sec., Board
R eg....................................  100.00
Apr. 5-259-Alex. H. Sibley, 34 salary as Treas. University   M ich............................  75.
Apr. 6-260-Wm. Dutton, salary Principal Kalamazoo
Branch, terms ending Dec. 24, 1841, and
April  8,  I842..........................  333.33
Apr. 6-261-E. R. Haskell, painting Univ. Buildings...        3.00
Apr. 6-262-Andrew Harvie, salary Principal Tecumseh
Branch, term ending April 9, I842.......     I66.66
Apr. 9-263-Geo. P. Williams, Prof. in Univ. from Feb.
I   to   A pr.  I,  I842........................  83.34
Apr. I3-264-P. Kelly, Janitor at Univ. from    Nov. 25,
184I, 4 months.........................     40.00
Apr. I3-265-Jos. Whiting, salary Prof. Univ. term.ending Apr. 9, 1842........................    I66.67
Apr. I6-266-E. R. Haskell, painting, glazing, etc. for
mineral  cases  at  Univ...................  16.89
Apr. I6-267-D. H-oughton, cash paid by him for labor,
cartage, etc., about Mineralogical Cabinet
at Univ................................     53.64
May 4-268-D. Houghton, cases for minerals furnished
U niv...................................   200.00
May 24-269-M. Meigs, salary Principal Detroit Branch
to May 4, 1842.........................     I25.00
May 28-270-S. Newberry, salary Prin. White Pigeon
Branch from Apr. 9 to May 14, I842....      48.40
May 30-27 State Treasurer, interest on Univ. Bonds
due Jan., I842, interest on coupons, premium, on draft and commissions.........   3,II5.00
June 2-272-Geo. P. Williams, cash paid by him       for
buckets, etc., for well at Univ.............   9.30
June  2-273-Jas. WV. Thomas, carpenter work, etc., for
Univ. Buildings........................     I8.27
June  2-274-D'. Houghton, for freight, cartage, lumber,
etc., for  cases  at Univ...................  26.90
June  6-275-D. S. Hickox, fixtures, etc., about Univ.
Buildings...............................    I8 74
June 6-276-Jas. W. Thomas, labor, etc., about Univ.
Bldgs...................................     3472
July 5 277-M. Horrigan, cleaning of well at Univ.....      II.00
July  5-278-P. Kelly, Janitor from Mar. 25 to June 25       30.00
July  8-279-Chas. Billings, for work, teaming in Sept.
1841....................................   3.00
July  8-280-Geo. McCollum, for pumps at Univ........       27.37
July  9-282-Andrew Harvie, salary Principal Tecumseh
Branch, term ending Aug. 6, 1842.........   I66.66
July  9-28I-Expenses of member of Board of Reg. attending meeting at Ann Arbor in Oct.,
184I....................................     4.00




DECEilIBEIR     2MEETING, I842                 25I
Aug.   283-M. Meigs, salary Principal Detroit Branch
~, year commencing May 7, 1842.2........   125.00
Aug. 15-284-WVm. Dutton, salary Principal Kalamazoo
Branch, term ending Aug. 6, 1842........    I66.66
Aug. 30 285-Expenses of members Board of Regents
attending meeting at Ann Arbor in Oct.,
I84I................................     8.oo
Aug. 30-286-Geo. P. Williams, salary Prof. in Univ.,
term ending in Aug. 6, I842..............   I66.66
Aug. 30-287-Jos. Whiting, salary, Professor in Univ.
term ending Aug. 6, 1842................   I66.66
Sept. 28-288-D. Houghton, paid expenses of arranging
Cabinet, planting trees at University.....  36.29
Sept. 28-289-Jas. W. Thomas, services as carpenter and
joiner, and lumber for Univ. Bldgs.......   II6.26
Sept. 28-290-J. H. & E. R. Haskell, painting for Cabinet
at  Univ.................................    55.39
Sept. 28-291-DeGraff & Townlsend, Hardware for Cabinet...................................       9.70
Oct. 7-292-State    Treasurer, interest due on Univ.
Bonds, July I, 1842, and charges........  3,045.00
'Oct. 7-293-A. Ten Eyck, bal. salary as Sec., due Oct.
5, 1842............5...................      53.50
Oct. 7-294-A. H. Sibley, salary as Treasurer, 6 mo.
to  Oct. 5,  1842..........................  50.00
Oct. 24-295-D. Houghton, clearing, etc., grounds about
Univ., per order of Board..............      22.21
Oct. 24-296-J. H. & E. R. Haskell, painting, etc., at
Univ. per order of Board...............      2.45
Oct. 24-297-Jas. W. Thomas, joiner work at Univ. per
order of Board.........................      11.25
Oct. 29-298-Geo. P. Williams, salary Professor at Univ.
I/3 term commencing Sept. 25, 1842......    66.66
Nov.   I-299 H. H. Mather, crown, glass, etc., used at
Univ. Buildings........................      96.92
Nov. I6-300 Jos. Whiting, salary as Prof. from   Aug.
23, to  Oct.  13,  1842......................  l00.00
Nov. I6-30 P. Kelly, services as Janitor from June 25
to Oct. 25, 4 months....................    40.00
Nov. 21-302-H. W. Goodrich & Co. for stoves, stove
pipe, etc., furnished  Univ................  I25.95
$Io,I42.96
University of Michigan in account with A. H. Sibley, Treasurer,
as per account of Treasurer.
1842
Dec. 9-Receipts per Treasurer's account current...............................  $12,179.38
Dec. 9-Add Treasurer's balance............      734.66
$I2,914.04
I842
Dec. 9-Payments per Treasurer's account...              $12,914.04
$12,914.04




252           DECEMBER MEETING, I842
Note: The balance in the Treasury of the University consists
of the following description of funds, viz.
Bills of Bank of Michigan (Uncurrent)........$  550.00
State  Scrip..................................  4.00
Cash........................................   262.57
816.57
Balance per statement of Finance Committee..    816.57
Balance per statement of A. H. Sibley, Treasurer...............................  734.66
81.9I
Difference thus accounted for:
Payments by Treasurer included in former report of Finance Committee......... $2,813.58
Deduct cash received by Treasurer charged by
Finance Committee in former report   2,000.50
184I
Nov. 30-Balance in hand of Treasurer per last
report.............................  813.08
1842
Nov. 30-Add payments by the State Treasurer
as per his account herewith........ I, 146.45
I0,959.53
Nov. 30-Deduct amount of warrants of the
Regents on their Treasurer since
Nov.  30, 1841......................  I, 142.96
Nov. 30-Balance per account of Finance Committee.............................  816.57
Nov. 30-Balance per account of Treasurer....    734.66
Difference  thus  caused:..................          81.91
Add amount charged as paid in the account of
Treasurer, not included in statement
(Nov. 30, 1842) of Committee.......   66.66
Auditor's warrant paid Sept. 30, 1842, omitted
Trcasurer's account...............    45.99
$112.65
Deduct warrants of the Regents credited in the
statement of Finance Committee but
not paid or included in account of
Treasurer.........................    30.74
Difference as above...........................           $81.91
Respectfully submitted,
J. KEARSL~Y,
Z. PITCHER,
RANDOLPH MANNING,
Detroit, December I, 1842.           Finance Committee.




DECEMBER;MIEETI\NG, 1842                  253
Mr. Duffield, from the Committee appointed at the last
meeting to prepare the Annual Report of the Board to the
Superintendent of Public Instruction, made the following
report which was adopted:
REPORT OF I'TH1 BOARD OF REGENNTS TO iTH'E SUPERINTENDENT OI
PUBLIC INSTRUCTION.
Sir:The undersigned, agreeably to a resolution of the Board of
Regents, adopted Dec. I2th, 1842, and in their behalf present to you
their Fifth Annual Report.
In their last Report, the Board had the pleasure to announce
the organization of a Faculty and the commencement of the Collegiate Department at Ann Arbor, with the prospect of as large a
share of success as could rightfully have been anticipated during the
first year of a new Institution. That prospect has been fully realized. For several months however after the commencement of the
year just expiring, there seemed to settle around the affairs of the
University a deep and thickening gloom. Although the circumstances of the Board were made known to the gentlemen appointed
as Professors and to the Principals of the several Branches, and.although they had promptly and cheerfully expressed a willingness
to endure privations and hardships as long and as far as there
might be hope of ultimate success in getting the University under
way, yet the money concerns of the Board became much more embarrassing and perplexing than they had anticipated, insomuch that
for a season it seemed as if the entire and absolute cessation of all
instruction in the University proper and in its several Branches must.speedily take place and the gentlemen in the employment of the
Board be advised of the necessity of taking some other sphere for.their useful labors.
The amount of available funds in the Treasury at the time of:the last Report was but $1,72I.9I, in State Scrip nominally equal to
the amount of outstanding warrants. The moneys due, for interest,on lands sold previous to I84I, amounted to $58,210.62, a sum far:more adequate to meet all the necessary and contingent expenses of.the University and of its Branches, to pay the interest on the loan,of $Ioo,ooo, to purchase Philosophical and other apparatus, to commence a Botancial Garden, to erect a Laboratory and additional
buildings now imperiously needed, and to contribute to a Sinking
Fund. Yet the fear was expressed that, judging from the experience of the two-preceding years, there would scarcely be received:sufficient to prevent the suspension of her Branches and the dismission of the Faculty. Still, it was hoped that if we could struggle
through a few months, the Treasury would be so far replenished
as to prevent such a result.
The legislation designed to administer relief to the purchaser:and settlers of the University Lands, postponed the period for the
payment of interest due till March, I842, before which, it was inti-.mated, the Superintendent would not collect and would be unable
-to pay anything to the relief of the Board. It was also thought,doubtful whether even after that date there would be sufficient
collected.amd paid over to the Board to meet the interest on the




254


DECEMfiBER JLEETING, I84p


loan, viz. $3,000. falling due in January last, and the further sum
of $3,000. falling due in July last, besides the necessary current expenses.
Under the influence of such prospects and fears, the Board
earnestly desired that the attention of the Legislature should )e
given to the subject, and that such changes might be made in the
Organic Law as would secure more efficiency and are as indispensable to the permanently successful discharge of the duties devolving upon them and to the management of the interests in education entrusted to them; especially as the subject had been brought
before the Legislature of 1840 and 1841, with hope of more definite
action. The Board are under the necessity of again calling the
attention of the Legislature to the subject and of urging such further legislation as may be necessary to give the requisite powers and
efficiency to the Regents that they may meet the expectations which
the public entertain from them. It is ow'ing to the zeal and measurable success of the Superintendent of Public Instruction, beyond
what was anticipated, that the Instruction has been enabled to continue during the past year.
Of the $58,2I0.62 due and receivable during the past year, there
have been but $9,966.45 received by the Treasurer of the State,
leaving a balance from last year yet due of $48,264.I7, which, in
addition to the amount of $14,000.00 more falling due in 1843, will
make the total sum now due to the University for interest $64,264.I7.
Of the sum of $IO,146.45 received, during the past year by the
Treasurer of the Board there have been paid $6, I50. for interest
and expenses of transmission due on the loan of $Ioo,ooo; $3,992.96
for the necessary and contingent expenses of the University and its
Branches, all of which will appear in the report of the Finance
Committee.
It was a matter of deep regret to the Board that the $3,000. of
interest due in January last was not and could not be paid till May
30th, and the further sum of $3,ooo. due in July last, not till Oct.
7th. From the State Treasurer's account-it will be seen that the
receipts together with the balance previously on hand for the past
year, have amounted to $Io,959.53, and the expenditures to $IO,I42.96, which leaves a balance now in the hands of the Treasurer
of $816.57. The expenses of the Board' for the ensuing year will
be, interest on loan and expenses of transmission, $6,i1o. Expenses
of the University including Professors' salaries, Preparatory Department at Ann Arbor, and estimated contingencies of the University and of its Branches, $2,550'; total, $8,700. The expenses of the
University proper, at present, for the support of Professors, amount
to $I200 per annum. The Board have felt themselves constrained
to add $Ioo each to the Professors of Languages and of Mathematics, being satisfied that the salary of the last year was not adequate to their comfortable support.
Soon after the commencement of the last year, Doctor Gray,
who had been elected several years ago Professor of Botany and
Zoo1logy and whose services, except in the manner of obtainlilng a
Library, had not been called into requisition, tendered his resignation, having received' an eligible situation as Professor in Harvard
College, whose resignation the Board were constrained to accept,
and he receiving no salary while not actually engaged in the business
of instruction. The labor imposed upon Dr. Houghton in opening




DECEMBER        MlEETING, 1842                 255
and arranging the Mineralogical Cabinet, rendered it desirable that
some aid should be furnished to him in his work, and to make arrangements at as early a period as practicable to commence instruction in the classes in the Department of Natural History.     The
Board consider themselves fortunate in having been able to secure
the services of Dr. Abram Sager, who was appointed Professor of
Botany and Zoology in place of Dr. Gray, resigned, and who, while
he will render important aid in the opening and arranging of the
Mineralogical Cabinet and of the Geological' Collection, will not
expect to receive any salary until his services shall be demanded in
the actual instruction of the classes.
A small Chemical and Philosophical Apparatus sufficient for
immediate demands has been secured at a very moderate rate and
been forwarded to Ann Arbor, under the direction of Dr. Houghton, which the Board are desirous as soon as possible to enlarge,
as well as to erect and furnish a suitable building for a Chemical
Laboratory.
From the report of the Faculty it appears that there are now
in the University twenty-five students, fifteen in the Freshman
and ten in the Sophomore Classies,' besides twenty-seven in the Preparatory Department, in all, fifty-two. The Course of Studies pursued and other important information are furnished in the same.
From  the report of the Executive Committee, it will be seen
that the subject of appointing another Professor to take charge of
the classes in the Department of Belles-lettres and of the' Moral
Sciences, is now under the consideration of the Board. The appointment of such a Professor will become necessary in the course
of the ensuing year for a more efficient prosecution of the great
interests of education.
1The Report of the Faculty here referred to has been preserved in the
Report of the Board of Regents to the Superintendent of Public Instruction,
printed in his Report for 1842, and contains the list of these twenty-five
students, as follows:
SOPHOMORE CLASS.
Judson D. Collins,                           Iyndon.
Thomas B. Cumming,                        Ann Arbor.
Merchant H. Goodrich,                     Ann Arbor.
Edwin Lawrence,                              Monroe.
Fletcher Marsh,                           Kalamazoo.
L. Decatur Norris,. Ypsilanti
George E. Parmelee,                       Ann Arbor.
George W'. Pray,                            Superior.
Charles T. Southworth,                       Monroe.
Platt S. Titus,                         '    Jackson    o10
FRESHMAN CLASS.
George P. Androus,                        Ann Arbor.
Joseph -Wr. Collins,                        Pittsfield.
Samuel J. Drew,                            Mackinac.
William Gartwood,                            Monroe.
WVilliam P. Glover,                       Ann Arbor.
Henry D. Goodrich,                        Ann Arbor.
Giles Heath,                                   Niles.
Satterlee Hoffman,                             Niles.
Charles J. HuLnt,                          Waterford.
Julius S.. Kingsley,                       Plymouth.
H-Ienry Lawrence,                            Monroe.
William W. Perry,                         Ann Arbor.
Willianm \. Phelps,                          Pontiac.
Hiomer F. Schoff,                           Portland.
Savillon S. Schoff,                         Portland.    I5
Total, 25




256           DECEMBER M/IEETING, I842
By the report of the Committee on Branches, it will be seen
that there are but four in operation. The Board has been constrained to reduce the appropriation to the sum of $200 per annum.
It is believed that this sum, with the tuition fees, will be sufficient
to enable the Branches to support themselves. It is an object particularly had in view by the Board to extend as far as possible the
Branches throughout the State. The embarrassed and uncertain
state of the finances have thus far prevented any action in refer-,ence to the extension of the system beyond those actually in operation. Should the finances of the Board admit of it, it would give
them great pleasure to hold out inducements for the organization
of a Branch in each County where the population might need or
desire it. But in the present percarious and uncertain condition of
the revenue, the Board have been deterred from any definite action
on the subject beyond what has just been stated.
It is sincerely hoped that the attention and wisdom of the
Legislature will be given to the subject of the resources of the
Board and the powers necessary to a permanent and successful
prosecution of the interests of education. Of so large a sum as
$64,246.I7* now due, it is impossible to conjecture what amount
will be paid during the ensuing year. Uncertainty attendant on the
collection of the revenue, postponement of the times for the payment of interest, liquidation of claims, and any other measures which
might excite a hope of successful delay of payment on the part of
debtors, it is obvious cannot fail to prove disastrous to any Institution dependant on its annual income. The Board of Regents do not
impeach the wisdom or motives which have influenced the legislation for several years relative to the sale of University Lands and
the collection of the proceeds thence arising. Having the immediate responsibility for the welfare and success of the University,
however, devolved on them, they feel it due to themselves, to the
Legislature, and to the community at large, whose interests are to be
subserved by the faithful discharge of their duties, when making
their annual report, once more, under circumstances embarrassing
and perplexing, and while soliciting such legislation as may be necessary to give efficiency to the Board, to present the following brief
historical statement of the legislative enactments on the subject.
ISt. An Act to provide for the Organization and Government
of the University of Michigan. Approved March I8th, I837.
2nd. An Act to locate the University of Michigan. Approved
March 20, I837.
* Since this report was prepared, the Board have received information that this sum is much greater than what actually falls
due to the University, in consequence of forfeitures and of the reverting of lands by the failure of purchasers to meet their obligations. The number of acres of University Lands now remaining
unsold, is 34,871 acres, leaving the avails of I3,129 acres, giving
$I32,576 as the amount of principal bearing interest at seven per
cent, and making the annual sum of $9,280.32, instead of $I4,000,
which would have fallen due for this, according to the sales formerly reported and contemplated in the above statement.   The
Board are unable to ascertain, until further and more specific information is in their possession, what amount of back interest due
has been forfeited, or whether any portion of the same will eventually be received.




DECEMBER MIrEETING, IS42


257


3rd. An Act to provide for the disposition of the University
and Primary School Lands. Approved March 2Ist, 1837.
4th. An Act to amend an Act entitled, "An Act to provide for
the Organization and Government of the University of Michigan."
Approved June 22st, I837.
5th. An Act to amend an Act entitled, "An Act to provide for
the disposition of the University and Primary School Lands." Approved June 22nd, I837.
6th. An Act releasing to the United States fourteen sections
in the Niles and sections twenty-five and twenty-six in the Nottawassippi Reserves, upon certain conditions. Approved March 20th,
1838.
7th..An Act to extend the time of payment of the University
and School Moneys. Approved April 6th, 1838.
8th. An Act to authorize a loan of a certain sum of money
to the University of Michigan. Approved April 6th, I838.
9th. An Act to provide for the payment of the expenses of the
Regents of the University in certain cases. Approved February I4th,
1839.
ioth. An Act to extend the time of payment of the University
and School Moneys. Approved.March 4th, I839.
IIth. An Act to provide for the sale of certain lands to settlers thereon. Approved March 25th, 1840.
I2th. An Act to amend an Act to extend the time of payment
-for the University and School Lands. Approved: March 30th, 1840.
I3th. An Act to reduce the price of University and School
Lands, and for other purposes. Approved April I3th, I84I.
I4th. An Act to reduce the price of University and School
Lands. Approved April I5th, 1842.
I5th. An Act to provide for the sale of certain lands to the
persons therein named. Approved February 9th, 1842.
Besides these Acts, two joint resolutions have been adopted by
the Legislature relative to the University, one relating to public
documents, and the other requiring the Board of Regents to report
to the Legislature convened in 1841, "What changes are necessary
to be made in the Organic Law relative to said University, in order
-to secure more effectually the objects of the same."
By the Act of March 2Ist, I837, the Superintendent of Public
Instruction was authorized to sell at public auction so much of the
University Lands as shall amount to the sum of $5o0,ooo, at the
minimum price of $20 per acre, one-fourth of the purchase money
to be paid down, the remainder in annual installments of five per
cent, commencing in five years from the sale, and at an interest of
seven per cent. to be paid annually. In June of that year this Act
was so amended as to require only one-tenth of the purchase money
to be paid at the time of sale and one-tenth annually 'thereafter,
with interest on the amount unpaid, and when, in the opinion of the
Superintendent of! Public Instruction, one-tenth of the purchase
money did not secure the interest of the State, he was authorized
to require additional security of the purchaser.
The Act of March 20, 1838, was never carried into effect the
person named therein as the executor of the law declining, for obvious reasons, to perform the duties required of him.
From the report of the Rev. J. D. Pierce, Superintendent of
Public Instruction, it appears that there were University Lands




258


DECEMBER M1EETING, 1842


sold in 1837 amounting to $I50,447.90, at the average price of $22.855 per acre; subsequently sales were reported to have been made
amounting in all to upwards of $200,000. In April (the sixth) of
I838, the time of payment of the Univeristy and School Moneys
was extended to December next ensuing, upon conditions to be, in
the opinion of the Superintendent, not prejudicial to the said funds
respectively.
By the Act of March 4, 1839, all delinquencies were cured
which took place in December, I838, if the delinquent made payment by the first day of May, I839. All further payments were
extended to the first day of December, 1839, "at which time on payment of all interest then due and enough of the principal to make
twenty per cent. with what shall have been paid theretofore, the
said Superintendent may suspend further payment one year from
that time, at which he may receive the interest and five per cent.
of the principal to be paid by the first day of December, 1840."
Up to this period in the history of the University its resources
had not been diminished. Embarrassments had been experienced
growing out of the delay in the payment of the interest due on the
University Fund, upon the regular receipt of which, obviously, the
success of the University depends. Under the Act of March 25th,
I840, which, provides for the sale of certain lands to the settlers
thereon, 4,743.12 acres of appraised University Lands were sold at
the average price of $6.2I an acre. In the year 184I, 367.66 acres
of University Lands were sold at an average price of $1I7 per acre.
During- the same year, as appears from the report of F. Sawyer, Jr., Esq., Superintendent of Public Instruction, there were
sold 60o acres of appraised University Lands at $8 per acre, and of
the forfeited lands, resold 1i68.28 acres at an average price of'
$19.52 per acre.
The agent appointed by the Legislature to relocate sixteen sections o f University Lands in lieu of those proposed to be relinquished to the United States by the Act of March 20th, 1838, found
the faithful execution of his trust to be impracticable because there
were no lands unlocated as valuable as those already selected. The
average price of lands sold in I84o, was $I7; that of appraised lands
sold the same year, was $6.2I, and in I84I, $8 per acre. Forfeited
lands were resold in 184I at $I9.52 per acre.
In March, I840, the time of payment for University and School
Lands was extended. In 184I, the minimum price of Universitv
Lands was reduced to $I5 per acre, and, in 1842, to $12 per acre.
In review, therefore, the Board of Regents, on whom the actual and ostensible responsibility for the successful establishment
of the University and for the distribution of its Branches rests,
respectfully submit to the consideration of the Superintendent of'
Public Instruction, to the Legislature and their fellow citizens, the
embarrassments attendant on their efforts which must shortly prove
disastrous and ruinous to the interests of education in the State,
unless some permanent and stable measures can be adopted for the
management and collection of the revenue of the University. The
Board do not wish to shrink from responsibility. They are ardently
devoted to 'the trust which has been devolved upon them, and ambitious to prosecute and discharge it in such way as to render the
munificent appropriation of the United States for the purpose of
the University, most efficient and diffusive, and so as to accomplish.




JANUUARY MJIEETING,, 1843


259


the intent of the donors, do credit to their munificence, and to
render it a blessing to the State and be conspicuous for its advantages and facilities for education. All they desire is the necessary
power to accomplish their trust, and measures to render the revenue
of the University regularly and permanently available.
Ggo. DuffILnD,
Z. PITCHER,
J. KEARSIEY,
December I2, 1842.                   Committee.
On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to procure Ioo extra
copies of the above report when printed, for the use of the Board.
Adjourned till the Quarterly Meeting in January next.
FIRST QUARTERLY MEETING FOR 1843.
Detroit, January 3rd, I843.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present:   Governor Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Richardson, Messrs. Ransom, Fletcher, Crane, Felch, Kearsley,
Owen, and Draper.
The Proceedings of last meeting were read and approved.
Mr. Crane proposed the following preamble and resolution, which, on his motion, were adopted:
VWHiRC.AS, A resolution was adopted on the 28th day of May,
1842, appropriating the annual sum of $200 to the Principals of each
of the Branches then in operation, and,
WHERrAS, A resolution adopted on the Igth of February, I842,
suspended all appropriations to the Principal of the Branch at Detroit after the 6th day of August, I842, therefore:
Resolved, That the said resolution of the 28th of May was not
intended to extend an annual 'appropriation of $200 or of any other
sum to the Principal of said Branch at Detroit.
Mr. Kearsley offered the following preamble and resolution, which, on his motion, were adopted:
WHEREAS, Great inconvenience is experienced by the members
of the Board of Regents residing in different parts of the State in
attending the meetings of the Board, and,
WHEREAS, Such attendance is attended with no little expense to
the members of the Board residing out of the City of Detroit,
where the meetings of the Board are held, and,
WHEREAS, It is desirable and expedient that the members of the
Board should be selected from different portions of the State. and,




260             APRIL i/lEETIAG, 1843
WHrEREAS, The Act of this State entitled, "An Act to provide
for the payment of the expenses of the Regents of the University
in certain cases," approved February I4th, 1839, has expired by its
own limitation, leaving the Board without any authority to pay its
members, therefore:
Resolved, That the President of the Board be requested to
communicate with the Legislature of this State, and request from
them, on behalf of the Board of Regents, the passage of an Act
granting to the Board of Regents of this State, authority to appropriate and pay the members of said Board such sum or sums of
money as will pay them their necessary and ordinary expenses in
attending the meetings of said Board, under such regulations as the
said Board may prescribe.
On motion of Mr. Kearsley
Resolved, That the Committee on the Library be instructed to
prepare and submit to the Board at its next meeting a set of rules
and regulations for the Government of the Library of the University.
On motion, adjourned till the Ist Tuesday of April next.
SECOND QUARTERLY MEETING FOR 1843.
Detroit, April 4th, I843.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher,
Felch, Owen, and General Lewis Cass and Rev. Marvin
Allen, newly appointed members of the Board.
The Proceedings of last meeting were read and approved.
On motion of Mr. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Auditing Committee be instructed to audit
and allow to members of the Board such sum as shall be necessary
to meet their unavoidable expenses in attending meetings of said
Board.
On motion, the foregoing resolution was referred to the
Finance Committee with instructions to request the advice
of the Auditor General as to the power of the Board of Regents to appropriate as contemplated by said resolution.
Dr. Pitcher presented a proposition from N. T. Ludden
in reference to a settlement of the mortgage held oy the
Board against him; and, on his motion, it was referred to




APRIL I/ EETING, 1843


26I


the Finance Committee, with directions to them to settle
with Mr. Ludden according as they shall deem for the best
interest of the Board.
A petition from  Mr. John Kilgore, for the purchase of
the land mortgaged by Amos Walters, was received and
read, and, on motion of Mr. Kearsley, the petition was laid
on the table, and the Secretary was instructed to correspond with Mr. Kilgore, and obtain a more definite proposition and ascertain the amount, etc., due on the mortgage.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Select Committee, to whom it
was referred to settle with the Bank of Michigan, made the
following report, which was adopted:
'o the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan.:
The Special Committee appointed with power "to make such
settlement with the assignees of the Bank of Michigan as to them
should seem just and proper," respectfully report herewith a statement of the sum claimed by them in behalf of the Board of Regents,
amounting to $9,204.70. In payment of this debt they have taken a
lease of the Seminary Grounds and Buildings on Griswold Street
for the period of nine hundred and ninety-nine years, a PhilOsophical Apparatus, and a lot of land on Jefferson Avenue in the city
of Detroit, at the prices affixed to them severally in the statement
alluded to.
A list of the papers connected with this matter is subjoined.
Very respectfully submitted,
J. KEARSLEY,
ZINA PITCHER,
Detroit, April 4th, 1843.                  Committee.
Dr. Pitcher, from  the Committee on the Library, who
were instructed to report a set of Rules and Regulations
relative to the Library, made the following report, which
was adopted:
RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THIl: LIBRARY.
I. The Professors shall furnish the Librarian with a Catalogue
of such books of the Library as they shall deem suitable and proper
to be loaned to the students, and none but the books of such
catalogue shall be loaned to the students.
2. When the Library is opened for the students, they shall
not enter the room, nor have access to the books otherwise than
by the Librarian handing to them such books as they may call for,
the lowler part of the door being closed by a table put across
it for that purpose.
3. The Professors shall have access to the Library at all times
and shall enter in a book, kept in the Library by the Librarian for
that purpose, the titles of all books taken out by them, the time
when taken out, and the time when returned.
4. All books taken out of the Library by any one shall be




262


2APRIL iMlIEETING, 1843


returned at the close of each term, and the Librarian shall, at the
close of each term, report to the Faculty and also to the Board of
Regents, any books that may be missing, or not returned.
Maj. Iearsley presented a communication from Matthew
Meigs proposing to sell his Classical Library.
Maj. Kearsley moved to refer said communication to the
Committee on the Library, with instructions to purchase the
books if they deem the same expedient, pending which motion, the Board adjourned till tomorrow  morning at 9
o'clock.
April 5th, 1843.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: as yesterday, and Mr. Crane.
The motion pending when the Board adjourned yesterday was taken up and the same was adopted.
Maj. Kearsley presented a communication from Professor Nutting, which was referred to the Committee on
Branches.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley; a seal with the following
device and legend was submitted, viz.-Minerva pointing a
youth to the Temple of Wisdom, surrounded with the inscription, "University of Michigan," and "MINEBRVA M'ONSTRAT ITER QUAQUE OSTE:NDIT SlF DEXTRA SEQUAMUR. 
Wherefore, on motion of J. Kearsley, the same was
adopted as the seal of the Board of Regents.
On motion of General Cass,
Resolved, That all conveyances to be executed by this Board,
shall be made in its corporate name sealed with its seal, signed by
the President, and attested by the Secretary.
On motion of Mr. Crane, Messrs. M. A. Patterson, S. C.
LeBaron and the Reverends M. Jennings, M. Kelly, and H.
Moore, were appointed a Board of Visitors for the Tecumseh Branch for the ensuing year.
Dr. Pitcher presented the report of the Principal of the
Tecumseh Branch, showing the condition of said Branch
for the term ending 24th of March, 1843; ordered on file.
Dr. Pitcher laid before the Board the account of Rev. M.
Meigs for services as Principal of the Detroit Branch, and
moved that the Auditing Committee be instructed to audit
the claim of M. Meigs up to the 3rd day of January, I843.
Adopted.




APRIL MEETING, 1843


263


The Finance Committee, to whom was referred the resolution relative to compensation to, be paid to members of the
Board, reported the same back with the following opinion:
Elon FarnszCorth, Esq.: 
Question: Have the Board of Regents power or authority to
direct payment to be made to the members of the Board under the
laws relative to the University?
(Signed) A. TEN EYCK,
Secy. Board of Regents.
Detroit, April 4th, I843.
The above enquiry is general, and to define the extent and limits
of the power of the Board upon the subject embraced in the question would require a more extended reply than time would permit.
But understanding that the object of the present inquiry is to
ascertain my views upon the authority of the Board to allow the
expenses actually incurred by its members in attending its sessions,
the reply may be limited to that point.
The Legislature did not contemplate that the.members of the
Board should receive pay for their services. But if it becomes
necessary in order to procure the attendance of the members of the
Board and insure a proper administration and execution of the trust
that the expenses actually incurred and paid by members in attending its sessions should be allowed them, I think under the general
powers granted, it would be competent to adopt a rule or by-law of
general application, authorizing such actual expenditures to be paid.
The exercise of similar powers, without special authority, by
Boards of Trustees has not been unusual and when done in a fair
and proper manner, I am not aware that the right to do so has ever
been questioned.
E. FARNSWORTH.
The resolution was, thereupon, adopted.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, the President was authorized
to execute a quitclaim deed to Jos. Lester of a lot in Utica,
Maacomb Co., heretofore deeded to this Board by said Lester.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That Messrs. Pitcher, Owen, and Kearsley be appointed a Committee with full power and authority to provied pay-ment by borrowing money or otherwise, for the amount due to the
Professors and Janitor of the University at Ann Arbor.
An account of W. Isham was presented for advertising a
notice relative to University Terms, amounting to $Io. Laid
on the table.
\Mr. Crane laid upon the table the following resolution:
Resolved, That the longest vacation in the University commence
-in the month of November in each year.




264


APRIL ILMEETING, 1843


The petition of the undergraduates of the University
relative to the Library was referred to the Library Committee.
Messrs. Felch and Crane were appointed members of the
Committee on the Lib;rary to fill vacancies.
Messrs. Cass and Allen were appointed members of the
Executive Committee, to fill vacancies.
Mr. Cass was added to the Committee on Branches to
fill a vacancy.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the Treasurer was instructed to pay the Professors of the University the amount for
which warrants are now, drawn in their favor, out of the
first moneys coming into his hands.
The Committee on the Library to whom        was referred
the petition of the undergraduates of the University, reported that no action of the Board was necessary under the
amended rules of the Library.
Dr. Pitcher offered the following preamble and resolutions, which were adopted:
WHER;AS, Intelligence has been received in this city since the
last session of the Board, of the death of Stevens T. Mason, late
Governor, and ex-officio, President of this Board, it is therefore,
Resolved, That in view of this afflictive visitation of an overruling Providence by which the ties that bound him to life have
been sundered forever, this Board will place on its records an
expression of its regret that a career so brilliant as his should so
soon have been closed by the intervening darkness of the tomb, and
of its sympathy with those between whom and himself there subsisted the more endearing relations of consanguinity.
Resolved, That this Board being the constituted guardians of
a Fund bestowed upon the University of Michigan by the Congress
of the United States for the promotion and growth of Science and
Learning as well as its dissemination among the people of the State,
they will ever hold in respectful remembrance the acts of the late
Governor Mason which had for their object the preservation of
this Fund, the early and successful organization of the University
of Michigan, and the perpetuation of its blessings to the latest generations.
Resolved, That as evidence of the feeling with which this
Board cherish the memory of the late Stevens T. Mason, by whom
it was originally organized, the cottage edifice, now in use at Ann
Arbor and known as the "Main Building," shall henceforth be
called "Mason Hall."
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Board of Regents be in'structed to enter the foregoing preamble and resolutions of record
and transmit a copy to the immediate relatives of the late Governor Mason, and publish the same in the city papers.
Adjourned till next Quarterly Meeting.




JULY 1/IEEsTIiG, 1843


265


THIRD QUARTERLY MEETING FOR I843.
Detroit, Tuesday, July 4th, 1843.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Pitcher and Owen.
A quorum not being present, adjourned until tomorrow
evening at 7 o'clock.
Wednesday evening, July 5th, I843.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Owen Allen,
Felch, Chancellor Manning, and Dr. Pitcher.
The Proceedings of the Board at the last meeting were
read and approved.
Maj. Kearsley, from    the Committee on Finance, to
whom was referred the application of N. T. Ludden, with
instructions, etc., made the following report, which was
accepted and ordered on file.
In obedience to the instructions of the Board of Regents, the
Committee on Finance report that N. T. Ludden has paid $300.66 in
warrants on the Internal Improvement Fund, as per within statement, and that said 'Committee have given him a written covenant
in behalf of the Regents that when he shall have performed the
agreements stipulated in his proposition of April 4th, I843, said
Board of Regents will cancel the mortgage which they hold upon a
certain house and lot of ground upon Woodward Avenue, in the
City of Detroit; but should said Ludden fail so to fulfill, said
Auditor's Warrants shall not be taken or considered in part payment of said mortgage.
The Finance Committee further report that the aforesaid warrants (which are all upon interest, and are within particularly
described) have been placed in the hands of Alexander H. Sibley,
Esquire, Treasurer of said Board of Regents.
Detroit, April ioth, 1843.  J. KEARSLEY, Chairman.
Dr. Pitcher, from  the Committee on the Library, to
whom was referred the communication of Mr. M:eigs with
instructions, etc., reported that the books of Mr. MIeigs had
been purchased by the Committee for $250.
Dr. Pitcher, from   the Committee on Branches, presented the resignation of Wim. Dutton as Principal of the
Kalamazoo Branch, to take effect at the end of the present
summer term. Also, presented communications relative to
the qualifications of the Rev. Jas. A. B. Stone, and urging
his appointment as Principal of said Branch in place of Mr.
Dutton.




266


JULY YIMEETING, I843


On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Rev. Jas. A. B. Stone, be and he is hereby
appointed Principal of the Kalamazoo Branch in place of Rev. Wm.
Dutton, resigned, to take effect at the end of the present summer
term of said Branch.
The Executive Committee to whom        it was referred to
correspond with the Rev. Edward Thomson, relative to his
appointment as a Professor in the University of Michigatn,
reported, that they had had correspondence with him, and
that he would accept such appointment and recommended
the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Rev. Edward Thomson, of Newark, Ohio,
be and he is hereby appointed a Professor of Philosophy of the
Human Mind and Moral Philosophy in the University of Michigan
with permission to him to enter upon his duties at any time he may.elect within twelve months from the expiration of the present collegiate term, which report and resolution were adopted.'
On motion of the President, the Executive Committee
were instructed to inform  Mr. Thomson of his appointment.as such Professor.
On motion of the President, the Executive Committee
were authorized to employ a Tutor in the University of
Michigan, if they find the services of such Tutor necessary,
for such length of time as they may think advisable.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, presented
a report from the Principal of the Kalamazoo Branch for
the term  ending March 17th, 1843, which was ordered on
file.
On motion of Miaj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That no person be permitted to occupy the Professors' houses, belonging to the University at Ann Arbor, without
the special order of this Board.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be instructed to procure lightning-rods for the Main University Building at Ann Arbor.
Dr. Pitcher presented the account of Jas. W. Thomas for
$I9.30, and, on motion, the Auditing Committee were instructed to, audit said account.
1 It does not appear that Mr. Thomson ever took up his duties at the
University. His name does not appear in the salary lists. August, I844, he
resigned the position to accept the Presidency of Ohio Wesleyan University.
In- I8641 he was made Bishop of the -I. E. Church and died six years later.




AUGUST MIEETINlG, _1843


267


On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Samuel Clark and Nathaniel
A. Balch, were appointed members of the Board of Visitors
of the Kalamazoo Branch in place of Messrs. Foote and
Hall, who have left the State.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That when this Board adjourn, it will adjourn to
meet at 2 o'clock P. M. on the 8th of August at the Main University Building, in Ann Arbor.
The communication of Mr. Comstock in behalf of M. A.
Jefferson, relative to the land in Kalamazoo. Co., mortgaged
to the Board, was referred to the Committee on Finance.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at Ann Arbor
on the 8th of August, I843.
AUGUST MEETING, I843.
Ann Arbor, August 8th, 1843.
Board met agreeably to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Cass, Allen, Felch, Crane, Walker,
Richardson, Whipple, Draper, and Owen.
Gen'l Cass was appointed President, and J. Owen, Secretary pro temnlpore.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches to whom
was referred the application of certain persons for a Brancl
of the University at Romeo, reported in favor of said aJppli-:cation, excepting so far as regards the expense connected
with it.
Mr. Walker offered the following resolution,
Resolved, That the sum of $200 be appropriated for the support
of the Branch of the State University heretofore located at the
village of Romeo, in Macomb County, for the year commencing
from and after the fifteenth day of August instant.
The resolution was lost.
On motion of Judge Whipple,
Resolved, That the Honorable Alpheus Felch, a member exofficio, of this Board, be authorized to occupy one of the buildings
intended for the residence of the Professors and now vacant, such
occupation to continue during the pleasure of the Board.
Resolved, That the rent of said building be fixed at such sum
-as the Rev. Mr. Allen, a member of the Board may deem reasonable.




268


A UGUST MlIEETING, I8-43


On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to publish a Catalogue of the Faculty and Students of the University with
the prerequisites to admission, together with the Course of Studies
pursued therein, in pamphlet form.1
Resolved, That the Auditing Committee composed of the members resident at Ann Arbor be authorized to lease the University
Grounds at Ann Arbor for one or more years as may be by them
found necessary, on condition that the lessee shall be required to
leave the grounds level, well sodded, and make such other improvements as shall be required by the Committee, and agreed to by said
lessee.
On motion of Mr. WValker,
Resolved, That the state of the University Fund does not
authorize this Board to continue the appropriations heretofore
made for the support of the Branches, and that after the time for
which appropriations for that purpose have been' made, has expired,
no further appropriations will be made, until an alteration in the
condition of said Fund will warrant it.
The motion was laid on the table.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Committee heretofore authorized to erect a
lightning rod upon the Main University Building at Ann Arbor, are
hereby authorized to have lightning rods put upon the houses
occupied by the Professors.
On motion of Judge Whipple,
Resolved, That the Bond and mortgage assigned by the Michigan State Bank to the Board, and executed by William Blackington, be referred to the Finance Committee with instructions to
make such an arrangement with the said Blackington touching the
same as may best comport with the interest of the University
Fund.
Dr. Pitcher offered the acceptance of the Rev. E. Thomson, as Professor in the University. Ordered on file.
Reports of the Branches from     Tecumseh and Kalamnazoo were received and ordered on file.
On motion of Judge Whipple,
Resolved, That the Finance Committee be authorized to lease
the house and grounds heretofore used as a Female Seminary in
Detroit upon such terms and for such time as they may deem expedient.
Adjourned to meet at Detroit, ist Tuesday of October
next, at 7 o'clock, P. M.
1 A copy of this First Annual Catalogue is in the University Library and
is probably unique.




NOVTEMIBER MEETING, 1843


269


Detroit, October 3rd, I843.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Presentt: Governor Barry, Messrs. Manning, Walker,
and Kearsley.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned until 22nd
of November at 6:30 in the evening.
NOVEMBER MEETING, 1843.
Detroit, November 22nd, I843.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Richardson, Messrs. Cass, Walker, Pitcher, Kearsley, Crane, Allen,
Owen, and Manning.
The Proceedings of the 8th of August were read and
approved.
Dr. Pitcher presented the report of the Principal of the
White Pigeon Branch, which was accepted and ordered otn
file.
The resolution offered by Mr. Walker at the meeting of
the Board on the 8th August, relative to a suspension ot
the appropriations to the Branches of the University and
which was laid upon the table at that time was taken up, for
consideration. The question being taken upon the adoption
of said resolution, the same was decided in the negative by
yeas and nays, as follows, viz.
Yeas: Messrs. Crane, Cass, Kearsley, Pitcher, and
Walker. 5.
lTNays: Messrs. Allen, Manning, Owen, Richardson, and
the President. 5.
On motion of Mr. Allen,
Resolved, That the salary heretofore appropriated for the payment of a Librarian be and the same is hereby discontinued.
Mr. Allen, from  the Executive Committee, reported,
that in pursuance of a resolution of the Board, said Committee had employed Mr. Jonathan Beach as a Tutor in the
University at a salary of $300 per year.
Mr. Owen presented a petition from the citizens of




270


NOTVE7EJIBER MilEETING, 1843


Monroe praying the establishment of a Branch of the University at that place, and, on his motion, the same was laid
on the table.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be instructed to inquire
into the expediency of discontinuing the Preparatory Department
of the University at Ann Arbor.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That a Committee of three be appointed to prepare
the Annual Report to the Superintendent of Public Instruction, and
that the several standing Committees report to said Committee
with the least possible delay.
The Chair appointed     Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher, and
Cass as said Committee.
Mr. Walker offered the following,
Resolved, That the same amount as is now appropriated to the
other Branches be and is hereby appropriated for the support of
the Branch of the Michigan State University located by this Board
at the village of Romeo, Macomb County, provided the location
and establishment of said Branch shall be concurred in by the
Superintendent of Public Instruction. Lost by yeas and nays, as
follows, viz.
Yeas: Kearsley, Pitcher, Richardson, Walker, and President. 5.
Nays: Allen, Crane, Cass, Manning, and Owen. 5.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That a warrant be issued in favor of Mr. N. W.
Balch for the amount paid by him for taxes on lands mortgaged to'
the Board, in Kalamazoo County; and that the Finance Committee
be instructed to take immediate steps to foreclose or sell the
mortgage belonging to the Board according to their best discretion.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Finance Committee be authorized to sell
the lot on Jefferson Avenue belonging to the Board', provided they
receive the sum of $800 in cash therefor.
On motion of Mr. Walker, the following preamble and
resolution were adopted by yeas and nays as follows, viz.
Yeas: Messrs. Allen, Crane, Cass, Kearsley, Manning,,
Pitcher, Richardson, and Walker.
Nays: Mr. Owen.
WHRERAS, It was voted by this Board the Isth of April, I84I,.
that a Branch of the University of the State of Michigan, be established at the village of Romeo, Macomb County, therefore,




DECEMBER MlEETING, 1r843


27I


Resolved, That a copy of the resolution aforesaid be presented
to the Superintendent of Public Instruction and his concurrence
therein requested.
Resolved, That (the Superintendent 'of Public Instruction concurring herein) a Branch of the University of the State of Michigan
be and is hereby established at the village of Romeo, Macomb
County.
On motion of Mr. Allen,
Resolved, That Rev. J. J. Fulton, of Tecumseh, be appointed
one of the Board of Visitors for the Tecumseh Branch, in place of
L. H. Moore, removed from the County.
Mr. Owen presented the account of D. Houghton,
amounting to, $10.62; ordered that the Auditing Committee
be instructed to audit said account.
On motion, adjourned to I4th of December at 6:30, P. M.
DECEMBER MEETING, 1843.
Detroit, December I4th, I843.
The Board met pursuant to adjournm1enlt.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Pitcher, Ma-tnning-,
Cass, Walker, Goodwin, Owen, and Kearsley.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and
approved.
The Secretary presented a communication from the Superintendent of Public Instruction, giving his assent to the
location of a Branch at Romeo,, Macomb Co., which was
ordered to be entered upon the Journal of Proceedings of
the Board, and is in the following words:
Ann Arbor, Ist Dec., I84,.
SIR: 
I concur in the resolution of the Board of Regents of the
University of Michigan, in regard to the establishment of a Branch
of the University at Romeo, in the County of Macomb.
Yours very respectfully,
A. TEN EYCK,                     O. C. COMSTOCiK,
Sec. Board of Regents.                Supt. Pub. Inst.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Finance Committee, made a report,
which, on his motion, was recommitted to said Committee with
instructions to make a settlement with the Treasurer of the University, and to receive from him and cancel all warrants or other
vouchers which have been paid by them and now remain in his
hands, and ascertain the actual financial condition of the University



272


DECEL1MBER     l/IJEETING, 1843


Interest Fund, and report the same to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction for publication and also to this Board at their next
meeting.
Dr. Pitcher, from   the Executive Committee, made the
following report:
Report of the Exectlive Co nimn iftce.
The Executive Committee beg leave to submit to the Board a
report from the Faculty of the University at Ann Arbor, which
exhibits the condition and the capacity of that Institution to be
useful, and the Course of Studies pursued by the classes which had
been organized therein prior to the commencement of the present
academic year. Since the last Annual Report was published, the
Board of Regents have deemed it necessary to appoint an additional
Professor at Ann Arbor. The appointment of Professor of Moral
and Mental Philosophy was accordingly conferred on the Reverend
Edward Thomson, who the Committee are assured. will enter upon
the discharge of his duties in the course of the ensuing spring.
In the interim, Mr. J. Beach has been employed to act as Tutor
in order to relieve the Professors of Languages and Mathematics,
so:as to enable them in some measure to perform the duties of
Professor Thomson and those appertaining to the Chair of Natural
Philosophy. The organization of a Junior class and the advancing
condition of the Freshman and Sophomore classes, in the opinion
of your Committee render it absolutely necessary that provision
should be made immediately for a Course of Instruction in the
elements of Chemistry and that a Professor of Natural Philosophy
should be appointed at an early day. A Philosophical Apparatus
and a room for a Chemical Laboratory are much needed at the
present time.
Your Committee feel a just pride in contemplating the present
degree of maturity of a temple devoted' to learning, reared in the
midst of a p'eople who have but recently reclaimed the country
they occupy from a savage state.
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCHER,
Detroit, December Ioth, I843.  Chairman Executive Committee.
Annexed is a Catalogue of the Faculty of the University.
Rev. Joseph Whiting, A.M., Professor of the Greek and Roman
Languages.
George P. Williams, A.M., Professor of Mathematics.
Douglass Houghton, M.D., Professor of Geology and Mineralogy.
Abram Sager, M.D., Professor of Botany and Zoology.
Rev. Edward Thomson, A.M., Professor of Moral and Mental
Philosophy.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, made the
following report:
Report of the Cozmmittee on B3raoiches.
The Committee on Branches comply with a resolution of the
Board of Regents by submitting their Annual Report for the year
ending August 6th, I843.




DECElMBER MIlEETING, 843j


273


At the close of the last academic year there were four Branches,of the University in operation besides the Preparatory Department at Ann Arbor. The annexed table gives the location of each
Branch, the name of its Principal and the number of pupils, in
attendance.
Detroit, Principal, Rev. M. Meigs, No. pupils, males........... 21
Kalamazoo, Principal, Rev. Wm. Dutton, No. pupils, males and
females.................................................  65
White Pigeon, Principal, Rev. S. Newberry, No. pupils, males
and' females.............................................. 35
Tecumseh, Principal, Andrew   Harvie, No. pupils, males and
females.................................................26
Ann Arbor, Preparatory Dept., Professors, No. pupils, males.... 27
Total of pupils in  the  Branches................I74
In the Department of Languages.............. IIo
The resignation of Mr. Newberry and Mr. Harvie to take effect
positively, was reported to the Board last year when it was also:stated that the former would be succeeded by the Rev. J. E. Chaplin
and the latter by Mr. Baxter. Mr. Dutton has since resigned his
appointment as Principal of the Branch at Kalamazoo and been
succeeded by the Rev. J. A. B. Stone. Mr. Meigs has also withdrawn from the Branch at Detroit, to whom no successor has been
appointed, as the appropriation to that Branch has been discon-tinued.
The following schedule shows the number of Branches now
in existence, the number of pupils in attendance on the 6th of
August, I843.*
Kalamazoo, Principal, Rev. J. A. B. Stone. No. of pupils, male
and   female............................................  66
White Pigeon, Principal, Rev. J. E. Chaplin. No. of pupils, male
and  female............................................... 28
Tecumseh, Principal, B. L. Baxter. No. of pupils, male........ 22
Preparatory Department, Professors. No. of pupils, male...... I7
Total of pupils in Branches.................... 33
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCHER,
Chairman Committee on Branches.
Detroit, December Io, I843.
Maj. Kearsley, from    the Committee on Finance, made
-the following' report:
Report of the Finance Conimmtittee of the University.
To the Presidelnt of the Board of Regents.of the Unliversity of Mlichi'galn.
-SIR:The undersigned Committee on Finance have the honor to submit their report for the year ending November 30, I843, with
documents marked, A, B, C, and D.
*Since the date of the above report, the Board of Regents
have organized a Branch at Romeo, in Macomb County, under the,direction of the Rev. Rufus Nutting.




274


DECEMBER JIIEETING, 1843


As intimated in their last Annual Report, the Committee, under
instructions of the Board of Regents, have made final settlement
with the Trustees of the Bank of Michigan and received payment
in full, as follows:
Bank of Michigan, Dr.
The total indebtedness of this Bank, including interest,
was ascertained by your Committee to be........... $9,204.70
Bank of Michigan, Cr.
By conveyance of Female Seminary Lot (so
called) in the city of Detroit, and buildings. $8,094.97
By lot on Jefferson Avenue, No. 8, being part
of lot No. 13 in section one as per plat
of said city................................,000.00
By Philosophical Apparatus on appraisement of
Dr. Houghton.............................  109.73
In  full  as  above....................................... $9,204.70
The bond and mortgage of N. T. Ludden, transferred to the
Board of Regents by the Michigan State Bank, in part payment
of deposits in that institution at the time of its failure, has been
paid by Mr. Ludden under instructions of the Regents and the.
mortgage cancelled, viz.
In warrants of Auditor General on Internal Improvement
Fund, which are bearing interest, and now in the
Treasury.................................... $2,553.27
By reference to the statement of the Secretary herewith
(marked No. 3) it will be seen that the appropriations to the University and Branches, incidental
expenses, etc., have amounted for the past fiscal year
to...................................................  2,681.76
The warrants drawn on our Treasurer, which have been
paid by him during the same period is................,516.34
Michigan Bank bills paid by him   on settlement -with
said Bank, as above stated...........................  550.00
The amount of warrants drawn on our Treasurer which
are  outstanding  and' unpaid,  is......................$I,I29.50
To which must be added the amount of an over payment
due  to  the  State  Treasury,  of........................  112.23
To  meet this  present indebtedness  of.....................$I,241.73
the Board have in their Treasury, viz. Cash..  9.14
Auditor's warrants on Internal Improvement
Fund.................................... $2,553.27  $2,562.4I
But as these warrants are at present unavailable, it will be
perceived the Board have recognized an indebtedness beyond their
present means of payment, of $1,231.59.
Respectfully submitted,
J. KEARSLEY,
ZINA PITCHER,
RANDOLPH MANNING,
Detroit, December I4th, I843.           Committee.




DECEMIBER MEETIAYG, I843


275


S'tatemeilt of Secretary of Board of Regents of Expenlditures etc.,
for year ecding ANovetber 30oth, 1843:
Since the 3oth November, 1842, the following warrants have
been issued by the authority of the Board of Regents upon the
Treasurer of the University, and for the purposes expressed in said
warrants.


Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.
Dec.


Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
July
July
July
July


1842.
I Warrant No. 303, in favor of B. L. Baxter, salary
one term, Principal Tecumseh Branch......$
12 No. 304, in favor of H. Colclazer, salary as
Librarian to 3oth Nov., and for blank book..
17 No. 305, in favor of G. P. Williams, balance
salary for one term as Professor in Univ.....
19 No. 306, in favor of S. Newberry, services as
Principal White Pigeon Branch............
21  No. 307, in favor of William   Dutton, salary
one term Kalamazoo Branch...............
21 No. 308, in favor of J. E. Chaplin, salary one
term White Pigeon Branch.................
27 No. 309, favor of Joseph Whiting, two and onehalf months' salary, Professor in University.
I843.
14 No. 310, favor of William R. Noyes for stoves..
4  No. 311, favor of S. Shepard for stoves & pipe..
6 No. 312, favor of J. Owen & Co. for press paper
6 No. 313, favor of John Hurlburt for trees......
16 No. 314, favor of J. West for lumber.........
4 No. 315, favor of H-I. Colclazer, 3 months salary
Librarian...........
30 No. 316, favor of H. W. Goodrich & Co., for
ventilators,  pipe,  etc........................
3 No. 317, favor of B. L. Baxter, salary for one
term, Principal Tecumseh Branch..........
4 No. 318, favor of Wm. Dutton, salary one term
Principal Kalamazoo Branch..............
4 No. 319, favor of G. P. Williams, salary one term
Professor in University....................
4 No. 320, favor of P. Kelly, 5 months services
as  Janitor...........
4 No. 321, favor of Joseph Whiting, three and a
half months' salary, Professor in University
5 No. 322, favor of A. M. Fitch, expenses as member  Board  of  Regents......................
5 No. 3123,,favor of M. Allen, expenses as mreember
Board   of  Regents..........................
5 No. 324, favor of E. Crane, expenses as member
Board   of  Regents..........................
I No. 325, favor of P. Kelly, three months, as
Jan ito r...................................
i No. 326, favor of Joseph Whiting, salary one
term, Professor in University..............
i No. 327, favor of G. P. Williams, salary one
term, Professor in  University...............
5 No. 328, favor of James W. Thomas, lumber,
labor,  etc.................................


66.66
59. 08
133.34
62.00
66.66
66.67
125.00


42.19
20.57
6.o8
12.50
12.00
25.00
66. i
66.66
66.66
200.00
50. 00
175.00
9.75
3.25
30.00
30.00
200.00
200.00
28.81




276           DECE/1IBER     EIL/JETING, I843
July   5 No. 329, favor of M. Meigs, for books for Library, payable 12 months from 2ISt May, 1843  250.00
July   5 No. 330, favor of M. Meigs, balance in full for
salary as Principal Detroit Branch........  83.33
Aug.   3 No. 331, favor of W. Dutton, salary one term,
Principal Kalamazoo Branch...............   66.66
Aug. 21   No. 332, favor of B. L. Baxter, salary one term,
Tecumseh Branch.................   66.66
Oct. 12 No. 333, favor of G. P. Williams, salary two
months, Professor University..............  oo00.00
Oct. I2 No. 334, favor of Joseph Whiting, salary two
months Professor University...............  oo00.00
Oct. 12 No. 335, favor of P. Kelly, three months services
as  janitor.................................  30.00
Nov. 28 No. 336, favor of Jonathan Beach, two months
salary, Tutor in University.................  50.00
Nov. 28 No. 337, favor of D. Houghton, cash paid for
lum ber,  etc................................  10.62
Nov. 28 No. 338, favor of A. Ten Eyck, one year salary
as  Secretary  and  postage...................  I00.50
$2,681.76
A. H. Sibley, Esq., Treasurer University                 Dr.
1843.
April 4 To amount Auditor General's warrants per receipt $300.66
July 28 To amount Auditor General's warrants per receipt 2,252.61
$2,553.27
1842.
June 6 Warrant No. 275 in favor of D. S. Hickox for
fixtures, etc., at University, Buildings........ $ I8.74
Maj. Kearsley presented a communication from         M. A.
Jefferson, making a proposition for the purchase of the land
in Kalamazoo County mortgaged to the Board, and on his
motion, the same was referred to the Committee on Finance.
MIaj. Kearsley, from   the Select Committee appointed to
prepare the Annual Report to the Superintendent of Public
Instruction, made the following Annual Report, which was
adopted.
Sixth Annual Report of the Board of Regents.
The undersigned, in compliance with a resolution of the Board
of Regents of the 22ndc ultimo, submit for their approbation, the
following report:
To the Superintentdent of Public Instruction:
In their last Annual Report, dated December I2th, 1842, the
Board gave a detailed review of the legislative enactments relative
to the University, the financial condition thereof, present and prospective, and the anticipated embarrassments in sustaining the University and Branches.




DECEMBER lIEETING, 1843


277


The Board deem a repetition of these embarrassments superflous, referring to that report for their causes. Sufficient to say
they now exist with increased effect.
From the last Report it will be seen that the University proper
has been organized,-that four Professors were then appointed, two
only of whom are in the receipt of salaries. Owing to the increase
of students and their progress increasing the number of classes
yearly, it has been found necessary to appoint a Professor of Mental
and Moral Philosophy, who is expected to enter upon his duties
the ensuing spring. A Tutor has been, in the interim, employed to
meet the exigencies of the present term. It is, however, questionable
whether the services of the Tutor can be discontinued even when
three Professors are fully employed.
There are at this time three Branches, to the Principals of
which an annual salary of $200 each is appropriated, in addition to
the tuition fees, and there is at least one other Branch now in prosperous operation, to which similar appropriation should in justice
be extended.
The unavoidable expenses for the next fiscal year may be
estimated as follows:
For two Professors at the annual salary of $600 each....$I,200.00
One  Professor, salary  for six  months.....................  300.00
One  Tutor  at  salary  of  $300..............................  300.00
Four Principals of Branches at an annual salary of $200
each................................................  800.oo
Incidental expenses, including salary of Secretary, insurance, and expenses of Regents for travelling to and
from  the  meetings of the  Board......................  500.00
Interest on $Ioo,ooo loan at 6 per cent payable (semiannually, $3,000)  in  New  York....................... 6,ooo.oo
$9,Ioo.oo
Deduct:
Estimating the receipt of Interest Fund the same with
that of the past year, as per report of the Commissioner of the  State  Land  Office.......................$7,409.05
The estimated expenditures will exceed the receipts.......$I,690.95
To which should be added outstanding warrants, etc.,per
report of Finance Committee......................... $I,231.59
$2,922.54
The Regents also feel it due to the cause of education, and
the high and important trusts committed to them to express the
opinion that to afford to the students of the University the opportunity of a proper course of thorough instruction expected at such
an Institution, the services of at least one of the Professors heretofore appointed will be required during the next year to whom
no salary has been heretofore paid. This will adid to the estimated
expenditure $600.
All admit the practical importance of Mineralogy, Geology,
Chemistry, and other branches of Natural Science, and those the
least acquainted with a collegiate course know that the study of
the Sciences should be commenced during the Sophomore year.




278


DECEIMBER VIIEETING, 1843


Should the appropriate duties, therefore, of the Professors to whom
salaries are now paid, be found incompatible with their labors in
other branches, the expediency of extending a salary to another will
be apparent.
A further cause for the existing pecuniary embarrassments of
the University is that which was in common with our entire State
and Country. The failure of the Michigan State Bank found the
University Interest Fund its depository to the amount of about
$6,ooo and! the Bank of Michigan more than $9,ooo. To liquidate
these debts, the Board have been obliged to take real estate or
mortgages thereon.' These are to the Board as yet unproductive,
although it is believed the property may ultimately realize to a considerable extent, the sums for which it has been taken.
The deficit of revenue agreeably to the above estimates, must
be provided for. The important question, In what manner? must
be decided. Several expedients have claimed the consideration of
the Regents. Shall the parent Institution be closed? The Board
answer, No. This measure must not be thought of. The University is in a condition both as to reputation with our fellow citizens
and numbers of students within its walls, exceeding the expectations of the most sanguine, and it is now confidently believed will
afford the means of a most thorough education to the sons of our
own and other States who may appreciate its advantages. If once
closed, even for the shortest period, years would elapse before it
could regain the confidence and prosperity it now possesses. A
reduction of the number of Professors is shown to be impracticable,
and an increase of at least one, highly expedient, if not necessary.
Shall all appropriations to the Branches be suspended? The
Board would adopt this measure with the greatest reluctance, and
only under a conviction of its imperious necessity. The manifest
intention, however, of the original grant of two townships of land
(the basis of the University Fund) and the ultimate advantages
to be attained, indicate to the Regents that should necessity compel
the adoption of one or other of these measures, the Branches must
be the sacrifice. The Board yet cherish the hope that such legislative aid may be extended to this Institution as will meet the demands upon its Treasury agreeably to the foregoing estimates.
To effect this object, the Regents reocmmend such alteration
in the Organic Law as shall provide for the assessment of such
tuition fees to be paid by the students individually as the Board
may deem reasonable.
Following the previous practice of the Superintendent of Public
Instruction, the Commissioner of the Land Office has received in
payment of principal for University Lands, State Treasury Notes.
The amount of State Scrip thus received, agreeably to information
received from the State Treasurer, is $6,5I3.5I. This evidence of
State debt cannot be re-issued or placed on loan by the State 'reasurer; consequently the Regents are deprived of the annual interest,
amounting to $455.94, which they would receive had payment been
required of the purchasers of University Lands in cash and this
loaned, upon interest.
The State having thus, in effect, become the borrowers, justice
would seem to require 'that the interest thereon should be deducted
semi-annually from the interest for which the University Interest
Fund is holden to the State upon the $Ioo,ooo loan. There is also




DECEM4BER M/EETING, 1843


279


on hand in the Treasury of the University the sum of $2,553.27 in
warrants of the Auditor General, drawn against the Internal Inprovement Fund which are bearing interest and for the payment of
this interest, and for the payment of this interest it is hoped the
Legislature will make like provision amounting annually to $178.73.
The passage of a law complying with the above suggestion is therefore earnestly recommended.
For detailed information relative to the action of the Regents
in performance of the trust confided to them reference may be had
to the reports of the respective Committees of the Board, herewith presented, marked 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
Respectfully submitted,
J. KrARSLIY,
LEwIS CASS,
Z. PITCHER,
Detroit, December I4th, I843.      Committee.
A communication was read from       the Common Council
of the City of Detroit, relative to an exchange of land upon
the Seminary Lot, so called, which on motion of Dr. Pitcher,
was referred to the Finance Committee.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the several standing Committees of this Board
make their Annual Reports to the Committee appointed to prepare
the Annual Report to the Superintendent of Public Instruction on
or before the 5th day of December in. each and every year and that
the Secretary give reasonable notice to the Chairmen of such standing Committees the said 5th of December.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, presented
the report of the Principal of the White Pigeon Branch for
the 3d term of I843. Ordered on; file.
Mr. WValker presented the following resolution,
Resolved, That the Rev. Rufus Nutting be and is hereby appointed Principal of the Branch.of the University of the State of
Michigan established at the village of Romeo, Macomb County, with
the same salary as is now allowed to the Principals of the other
Branches and that the same amount is hereby appropriated for the.support of said Branch as is now appropriated for the annual support of the other Branches.
Mr. Owen moved to amend said resolution by striking.out all that portion which relates to the appropriation to
said Branch, which motion was decided in the negative.
Said resolution being under consideration, the same was
decided in the affirmative by yeas and nays as follows, viz.
Yeas: Messrs. Cass, Kearsley, Pitcher, Walker, President. 5.
Naya!s: Messrs. Manning and Owen. 2.




28o


J24AN UARYI MIEETING, 1844


MNaj. Kearsley submitted the following resolution, whicl
was decided in the negative by yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Cass, Kearsley, and Pitcher.     3.
Nays: Messrs. Goodwin, Manning, Owen, Walker, and
the President. 5.
Resolved, That in view of the Finances of this Board as exhibited by their Annual Report adopted at their present meeting all
appropriations to 'the Principals of Branches be discontinued after
the expiration of the present academic year, which will terminate
on the 5th day of August, 1844.
On motion of General Cass, adjourned to the 2nd day
of January next.
JANUARY MEETING, 1844.
Detroit, January 2nd, I844.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Richardson, Messrs. Kearsley, Owen, Fitch, and Cass, Justices
Ransom, Whipple, Goodwin, and Felch.
Maj. Kearsley, from    the Finance Committee, to whom
was recommitted the report of said Committee, made at the
last meeting of the Board, with instructions, made tlhe following report:
Treasurer inl account with Board of Regents for year e;zdinlg Nov..
30th, I843.
University of Michigan                Cr.
Dec. I, 1842  Bal. on hand per report....................$ 734.66
Dec. 24, 1842 Rec. of State Treasurer...................  II4.83
May 3I, 1843 Rec. of State Treasurer....................  55o.oo
Nov. 30, 1843 Rec. of State Treasurer..................  630.00
Nov. 30, 1843  Rec. from  State Treasurer, Sept. 30, 1842,
omitted in my statement of last year, 1842  45.99
Apr. 4, I843 Auditor's Warrants recd. of J. Kearsley,
Chairman,  etc.........................  300.66
Auditor's Warrants reed. of N. T. Ludden 2,252.61
$4,628.75
Dr.
Amount of Warrants paid by A. H. Sibley, Treasurer since
N ov.  30th   1842.....................................$,5 6.34
Requisition of Pres. of Board for Mich. notes............  550.00
Balance on hand-Cash........................     9.I4
Auditor's Warrants............................ 2,553.27  2,562.4I
$4,628.75


Detroit, Nov. 30th, I843.


A. H. SIBLEY,
Treasurer of University..




JANUARY MlEETING, 1844                           281
Schedule of University Warrants paid by A. H. Sibley, Treasurer, to the 30th November, 1843, inclusive:
No.       To Whom    Payable                                Amount
203  Samuel   Centre...................................     $433.33
229  Samuel Centre...................................         433-33
233  S.  N ewberry..................................250.00
236  J,  W hiting.......................................      66.66
245  H. Lum..........................................      413.00
246  G.  P.  W illiam s...................................   I25.00
247  P. J.  Desnoyers...................79.18
248  G.  P. W illiams.................................     I25.00
249  Andrew    Harvie..................................       I66.66,
250  P.  Kelly.........................................       20.00
25I  A. Ten Eyck.....................................          75.oo
252  Dawson & Bates..................................          28.75
253  Matthew Meigs..................................         250.00
254  Committee on Branches..........................           20.27
255  Louis  Schleicher................................5.63
256  H. Colclazer.....................................        110.20
258  A.  Ten   Eyck.....................................     00Ioo.
259  A. H.  Sibley.................................................... 75.00
260  W. Dutton.......................................     333.33
26I  E. R. Haskell.....................................        3.00
262  A. Harvie........................................        I66.67
263  G. P. Williams....................................        83.34
264  P. Kelly..........................................      40.00
265  J.  W hiting.......................................     I66.67
266  E.  R.  Haskell....................................     I6.89
267  D. Houghton....................................       53.04
268  D. Houghton.....................................     200.00
269  M. Meigs....................................         I25.00
270  S.  N ewberry....................................        48.4c
271  J. J. Adam, Treas..................................     3,5.00
272  G. P. Williams....................................         9.30
273  J. W. Thomas....................................          18.27
274  D. Houghton.....................................          26.90
276  J.  W. Thom as....................................      34.72
277  W.  H ingan.......................................     II.oo
278  P.  K elly..........................................     30.00
282  A.  Harvie........................................      I66.66
283  M. Meigs........................................     125.00
286  G. P. Williams...................................         66.66
287  J.  W hiting.......................................     I66.66
288  D. Houghton.....................................     36.29
291  DeGraff & Townsend.............................            9.70
292  J. S. Barry.......................................     3,045.00
293  A. Ten Eyck.....................................      53.50
294  A. H. Sibley......................................       50.00
279  Chas. Billings....................................         3.00
280  Geo. W. M cCollum...............................       27.37
284  W. Dutton.......................................         I66.66
289  J.  W. Thomas....................................      I16.20
'290  J. H. &  E.  R.  H askell............................  55.39
295  D. Houghton............................      22.21
296  J. H. & E. R. Haskell.............................         2.45
297  J. W.  Thomas....................................       IT.2 




282            JAAilUARY MlEETING, 1844
298  G. P. Williams...................................     66.66
299  H. H. Mather...................................   96.92
300  J.  W hiting......................................  100.00
301  P.  Kelly..........................................  40.00
302  H. W. Goodrich  &  Co.............................  125.95
303  B. Baxter........................................    66.66
304  H.  Colclazer.....................................   59.08
305  G. P. Williams...................................   133.34
285 J. Kearsley and C. Duffield.......................      8.oo
306  S.  Newberry.....................................   62.00
308  J.  E. Chaplin....................................   66.67
281  Geo. Morell......................................     4.00
323  M. Allen.........................................      3.25
309 J. Whiting.......................................      15.ou
319  G. P. Williams...................................    200.00
320  P.  K elly..........................................  50.00
32   J.  W hiting.......................................  I75.00
325  P. Kelly.......................................     30.00
326 J. Whiting.......................................     200.00
327  G. P. Williams...................................    200.00
333  G. P. Williams...................................    100.00
334  J. Whiting..................................00.00
Apr. 8th, 1843, Pres. Board's requisition for Mich.
notes........................................    55o.oo
N ov.  30th,  1843........................................  $I4,225.92
A. H. SIBLEY,
Treas., U. of M.
Detroit, Dec. I7th, I843.
I certify that agreeably to resolution of the Board of Regents,
in behalf of the Finance Committee, I have examined and cancelled
the warrants and requisitions of said Board upon their Treasurer
as per the within list and have filed the same, thus cancelled, with
the Secretary of said Board.
J. KErARSLE;Y, Chairman.
Appendix- to Report of Finance Comlminttee of Board of Regents of
the University, Nov. 30th, 1843.
Amount and description of warrants drawn upon the Treasurer
of the University which are unpaid and outstanding, Nov. 30th,
1843.
No.    Date.    In Whose Favor Granted and              Amount
for What Object.
1842
275  June   6-..........................................    I8.74
307  Dec. 2-TW. Dutton, salary one term..............  66.66
I843
310 Jan. I4-William R. Noyes, for stoves............       42.I9
311  Feb. 4-T. Shepherd, for stoves and pipe......       20.57
312 Feb. 6-J. Owen & Co., for press paper...........         6.o8
313  Feb. 6-John Hurlburt, for trees................       12.50
314  Feb. i6-J. West, for lumber.......................     12.00.
315  Mar. 4-H. Colclazer, 3 mo. salary as Librarian...     25.00
316  Mar. 30-H. W. Goodrich & Co., for ventilators,
pipe,  etc..............................  66.II




JANUARY MlEETING, I844


283


317 Apr. 3-B. L. Baxter, salary one term   Tecumseh
Branch...............................   66.66
318 Apr. 4-William Dutton, salary I term Kalamazoo
Branch...............................  66.66
322 Apr. 5-A. M. Fitch, traveling expenses as Regent      9.75
324 Apr. 5-E. Crane, traveling expenses as Regent....    30.00
328 July 5-. W. Thomas, lumber...................       28.8
329 July 5-M. Meigs, books, 12 mo. 3Ist May, 1842....  250.00
330 July 5-M. Meigs, salary, 5/12 year, Detroit Branch   83.33
331 Aug. 3-W. Dutton, Salary, Kalamazoo Branch...       66.66
332 Aug. 21-B. L. Baxter, Tecumseh Branch.........      66.66
335 Oct. 12-P. Kelly, services janitor.................  30.00
336 Nov. 28-Jonathan Beach, Tutor..................     50.00
337 Nov. 28-D. Houghton, lumber, etc................    10.62
338-Nov. 28 A. Ten Eyck, Secretary Board, and postage  100.50
Total amt. of unpaid warrants.............. $I,I29.50
J. KEARSLEY,
Detroit, Nov. 30th, 1843.  Chairman Finance Committee.
Maj. Kearsley, from   same Committee to whom was referred the proposition of M. A. Jefferson for the purchase
of the land in Kalamazoo County, mortgaged to the Board,
reported that they had had correspondence with N. A.
Balch, Esquire, relative thereto.
On motion of General Cass,
Resolved, That the thanks of this Board be tendered to Alexandre de Vattinear for his present of an ancient Runic Book to
the University of Michigan and that his Excellency the President
be requested to forward to Mr. de Vattinear a copy of this resolution of the Board.
Resolved, That the said book be deposited in the Library of the
University.
On motion of Mr. Owen, the petition of the citizens of
/Monroe, relative to the Branch at that place, was taken up
for consideration.
Resolved, That at the request of the citizens of the City of
Monroe, Mr. Ira Mayhew, of said city, be and he is hereby appointed Principal of the Monroe Branch, provided however that
said appointment shall not involve any pecuniary responsibility upon
the Board of Regents.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Finance Committee be instructed to memorialize the Legislature of this State on the subject of leasing the
Female Seminary Lot, so-called, at a sum not less than that at
which the same was received by this Board.
On motion, of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be instructed to ascertain what moneys have been paid by the students in the University as




284


2APRIL MlEETING, I844


instruction fees since its organization; also, what sums have been
assessed annually for room-rent, or other contingent expenses; to
whom said moneys have been paid, and in what manner the same
have been disposed of, or accounted for, and that said Committee
make report to the Regents at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion, adjourned till first Wednesday of February
next.
FEBRUARY MEETING, 1844.
Detroit, Wednesday, February 7th, I844.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Manning,
Ransom, Whipple, and Goodwin.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned till the
next Quarterly Meeting, the 2nd April next.
APRIL MEETING, 1844.
Detroit, Tuesday, April 2nd, T844.
The Board met pursuant to adjournmcl.t.
Present: Governor Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Richardson, Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher, Crane, Allen, Felch,
Manning, Whipple, and Rev. R. R. Kellogg and Geo. Duffield, newly appointed members.
Dr. Pitcher presented the application of the Board of
Education of the City of Detroit, praying the use of the
building in said City, now under the control of this Board,
to be occupied under the direction of said Board of Education for the use of the Free Schools of said City.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the prayer of said petition be granted on condition that the said Board of Education in the Classical Department
of said school use the text-books now prescribed to be used in the
University of Michigan, and that the teacher or teachers employed
by said Board in said Department shall be such as the Committee
on Branches of this Board shall be satisfied with; and conditioned
further, that said Board of Education shall keep said building and
fences in good repair and' shall quit possession of the same whenever required by this Board.
The Secretary presented the communication of E. C.
Seaman, Esquire, respecting the appointment of Benjamin S.




APRIL MEETIiNG, IS844


285


Cooper, Esquire, as a Professor of Law in the University.
Referred to Committee on Professorships.
Maj. Kearsley presented a communication of M. A. Jefferson respecting the purchase of the mortgage upon the
lands in Kalamazoo County, in which he offers $2Ioo in
State Warrants.
On motion of Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Committee on Finance be instructed to accept the terms proposed by Mr. Jefferson.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Executive Committee, who were
instructed to enquire into the expediency of discontinuing
the Preparatory Department at Ann Arbor, made the following report. The report was adopted.
The Executive Committee, to whom the foregoing resolution
was referred would respectfully recommend the discontinuance of
the Preparatory Department of the University, to take effect at the
commencement of the next collegiate year, the discontinuance of
the office of Tutor whenever the foregoing recommendation shall
take effect, if adopted, and the addition of $To0 a year to the salary
of each of the Professors actually employed in the discharge of their
duty at the University.
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCHER
M. ALIEN
Executive Committee.
Detroit, April 2nd, I844.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, presented
the reports from the Branches at Romeo, Tecumseh, Kalamazoo, White Pigeon, and Monroe, which were accepted
and ordered on file.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Dr. H. Graham, Abner Morton, E. Adams, H. H. Smith, and Carlos Colton were appointed the Board of Visitors for the Monroe Branch.
On motion of Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That the President of the Board execute the necessary conveyance of the right, title, and interest of the Regents of
the University in and to the Female Seminary, so-called, in the
City of Detroit, to the State of Michigan, in accordance with the
Act of the Legislature passed at its late session.
Judge Whipple laid upon the table the following,.resolutions:
Resolved, That the Board will proceed at the termination of
the present collegiate year to elect a Chancellor, who shall discharge
the duties of Professor of.......... in addition to those appertaining to the office of Chancellor.




286. UGUST 1MEETING, 1844


Rcsolved, That at the expiration of the present collegiate year,
the Board will make no further appropriation for the support of
the Branches but will direct the funds under their control towards
the support of the Parent Institution.
On motion of Mr. Richardson,
Resolved, That Rev. R. R. Kellogg, Rev. Mr. Fox, D. C. Walker, Nathan Dickinson, and Minot T. Lane, Esquires, be and they
are hereby appointed the Board of Visitors for the Romeo Branch.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That when this Board adjourn it adjourn to meet at
Ann Arbor on Monday the I2th August next during the examination at the University.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Committee on Library be instructed to examine into the condition of the Library and report at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That the resignation of A. H. Sibley as Treasurer of
the University of Michigan be and the same is hereby accepted, and
that John J. Adam be and he is hereby appointed Treasurer of said
University.
The Chair announced E. Mundy as one of the Executive
Committee in place of General Cass resigned; also, Rev.
Geo. Duffield as one of the Committee on Branches; also,
Mr. Owen reappointed on Auditing Committee; also Messrs.
Duffield, Goodwin, and Allen, as the Committee on the appointment of Professors, etc.
The Committees as now constituted are as follows:
Committee on Library: Messrs. Pitcher, Felch, and Crane.
Executive Committee: Messrs. Pitcher, Mundy, and Allen.
Committee on Branches: Messrs. Pitcher, Kearsley, and Duffield.
Auditing Committee: Messrs. Pitcher and Owen.
Finance Committee: Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher, and Manning.
Committee on Professors, etc.: Duffield, Goodwin, and Allen.
On motion, the Board adjourned.
AUGUST MiEETING, I844.
Ann Arbor, August t2th, 1844.
The Board of Regents met agreeably to adjournment.
Present: Lieutenant-Governor Richardson, Messrs. Duffield, Allen, Kellogg, Pitcher, Mundv, Kearsley. and Owen.




.4 UGUST 3JEETING, _r844


287


On motion of Mr. Allen, Governor Richardson w+as appointed President pro tempore, and on motion, J. Owen was
appointed Secretary pro temp ore.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and appi-oved.
Resolution No. 2, offered by Justice Whipple at tile last
meeting of the Board and then laid upon the table, was
taken up, and on motion of Mr. Mundy was again laid upon
the table.
Resolution No. 3, laid upon the table at the last meeting
of the Board was taken up, and, on motion of Mr. Duffield,
was again laid upon the table.
A communication was presented by Dr. Pitcher from
the Rev. E. Thomson tendering his resignation as Professor
of the Philosophy of the Human Mind and Moral Philosophy. The resignation was accepted, and the communication referred to the Committee on Professorships for the
purpose of conferring with the Faculty of the University in
regard to the necessity of filling the vacancy.
On motion of Major Kearsley, the Finance Committee
were authorized to lease or sell the lot belonging to the
Board situated on Jefferson Avenue in the City of Detroit.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, the Committee on Professorships were directed to report upon the practicability of employing some person to discharge the duties of Professor of
Chemistry during the temporary absence of Dr. Houghton,
and that they have power to employ some person if in their
judgment it is advisable.
On motion of Mr. Allen, supported by Major Kearsley,
the Committee on the Library were authorized, if in their
opinion they should deem it proper, to purchase for the use
of the Library, Smith's Map of the United States.
A communication was presented from S. MI. Green, Esquire, Commissioner to revise the Laws of the State of
Michigan in regard to reporting a change in the Laws organizing the University of Michigan, which was referred
to a select Committee consisting of Messrs. Duffield, Kearsley, alid Pitcher, to take the matter into consideration and
to report to the Board at their next meeting.
On motion of Mr. Allen, the Executive Committee were
authorized to take into consideration and report upon the.




:288


AUGUST MIEETING, 1844


expediency of altering the By-Laws which fix the time of
commencement and close of the terms of the University.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at 8 o'clock in
the evening.
8 o'clock P. M.
The Board met as per adjournment.       Members present
as in the afternoon; also, Mr. Fletcher.
On motion of Major Kearsley, the Executive Committee were requested to make a full inquiry in regard to the
compensation received by the Janitor of the University,
what services are performed by him and how he is paid.
The Committee on Professorships reported that they had
conferred with the Faculty, and found that the interests of
the University required that the vacancy occasioned by the
resignation of Dr. Thomson should be filled as early as the
commencement of the next term.
On motion of Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Committee on Professorships be requested
to nominate as soon as practicable a person to fill the Professorship
of Moral and Intellectual Philosophy, and also a Tutor to fill the
vacancy occasioned by the expiration of the time for which Mr. J.
Beach had been employed; the Professor to receive such salary as
is to be paid the Professors now in the employ of the Board, and
-the Tutor the same salary as heretofore paid.
On motion of M\ajor Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Preparatory Department in connection with
the University be continued under the direction and control of the
Faculty, provided the University Buildings shall not be employed for
the use of the school, and that it shall not involve the Board of
Regents in any pecuniary responsibility for its support.
The Executive Committee, to whom was referred the matters
connected with the employment of the Janitor, reported that he was.engaged in and about the University in such employment as the making of fires, ringing the bell, and sweeping the rooms, for which he
received from the Board ten dollars a month, and that he received
the same amount in addition, which is assessed upon and collected
among the students for the use of the rooms. The Committee further reported that Messrs. Whiting and Williams had received from
the students for initiation fees, $440 (as per schedule presented).
On motion,
Resolved, That the sum of $5 per term shall be assessed for the
use of each room occupied by the students in the University Building, which shall be paid in advance, provided that a sum not exceeding $2.50 a term shall be assessed upon any one scholar.




SEPTElMBER MlEETING, 1844


289


On motion,
Resolved, That hereafter the Janitor shall be paid $20 per
month, for which sum it shall be his duty to devote his whole time
in the discharge of such duties as the Faculty may require him to
perform; and he shall further be required to collect the room-rent
from the students and make a full report to the Board of Regents
at the close of each term, at which time he shall pay over to the
Treasurer of the Board the amount so collected, after paying his
own salary and such other accounts for incidental expenses as may
be authorized and approved of by the Faculty.
On motion,
Resolved, That the Faculty be instructed to collect in advance
the entrance fee of $io as required.to be paid by the Organic Law,
and that they be required to pay the same to the Treasurer of the
Board, for which they shall take his receipt and file it with the Secretary of the Board.
On motion of Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That Professors Whiting and Williams be required
to pay the sum of $440, being the amount heretofore received by
them as entrance fees from the students, to the Treasurer of the
University in sums of $25 annually from each of them.
On motion, time was granted to the Executive Committee to whom was referred the matter of altering the time for
the commencement and ending of the terms of the University, to report at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion,
Resolved, That a loan of $200 be made to Professor Whiting to
be repaid by deducting the same from his salary, as follows: $Ioo
at the close of this term and $Ioo at the close of the second term
of the ensuing collegiate year.
The Librarian submitted a report showing the condition
of the Library, which was referred to the Committee on the
Library.
The Board then adjourned to meet at the office of the
Secretary in Detroit on the I2th day of September next at
7 o'clock P. M.
SEPTEMBER        MEETING, 1844.
Detroit, September I2th, I844.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present:   Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Allen,
Fitch, Kellogg, Crane, Owen, Pitcher, Manning, Richardson, and D'uffield.




,290


SEPTEIBER MEETI\;G, T 1G844


The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and ap 
proved.
Mr. Owen moved a reconsideration of the resolution
adopted at the last meeting of the Board relative to requiring Messrs. Whiting and Williams to pay the sum of $440
to the Treasurer of the Board, in sums of $25 per annum
from each of them, which was decided in the affirmative by
yeas and nays as follows:
Yeas: Messrs. Allen, Crane, Duffield, Fitch, Kellogg. Manning.
Owen, Richardson, and the President. 9.
Nays: Messrs. Kearsley and Pitcher. 2.
The resolution being then under consideration, on motion
of Mr. Manning, the same was amended by striking out the
word "annually," where it occurs and inserting in lieu thereof the words "per term." The resolution, as amended, was
then adopted.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the resolution No. 3 of
Judge Whipple heretofore laid upon the table, was taken
up, and on like motion, the same was indefinitely postponed.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Committee on Branches, presented
the report of the Principals of the Tecumseh, WAhite Pigeon,
and Kalamazoo Branches, for the term ending July, 1844.
which were ordered on file.
On motion of Mr. Duffield, IMr. Manning was added to
the special Committee to whom was referred the communication of S. M. Green, ETsquire, Reviser of the Laws of the
State.
Mr. Duffield, from  the Committee on Professorships,
who were requested. to nominate a Professor of the Philosophy of the Human Mind and Moral Philosophy, etc., in the
University, reported the names of several applicants for such
Professorship and on motion of Mr. Richardson it was,
Resolved, That the appointment of Tutors in the University be
made by the Board on the nomination of the Faculty of the University.
On motion of Mr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That in the present instance the Committee on Professorships be authorized to appoint a Tutor upon the nomination of
the Faculty of the University.
On motion of Mr. Duffield, the names of several applicants for the Professorship of the Philosophy of the Hu



SEPTEMlBER l'fEETING, 1844


291


man Mind and Moral Philosophy were referred to a select
Committee consisting of Messrs. Owen, Crane, Allen, and
Manning.
The Committee, after short absence, reported that they
could not unite in recommending any one person for the
office of such Professorship.
On motion of Mr. Allen, an informal ballot was taken
for such Professorship, which resulted in eight ballots for
the Rev. Andrew Ten Brook, and three for the Rev. Schuyler Seager.
Mr. Richardson moved, that the Reverend Andrew Ten
Brook be appointed to the Professorship above stated to till
the vacancy occasioned by the resignation of the Reverend
Dr. Thomson, which motion was decided in the affirmative
by yeas and nays as follows:
1Yeas: Messrs. Allen, Kearsley, Kelloggo  Manning, Richardson,
and Barry, 6.
N\ays: Messrs. Crane, Fitch, and Owen. 3.
On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Committee on Branches be instructed to
communicate to the Principal of the Romeo Branch this Board's
decided disapprobation of the admission in public academical exhibitions of speeches to be delivered by the young men, having a bearing on private character, or local circumstances, or party political
interests, and also to adopt such. measures and make such publications as will afford security to the community that nothing of this
kind shall ever hereafter occur.
On motion of Mr. Crane,
Resolved, That the salary formerly paid to the Librarian of
the University be restored.
Resolved, That the Librarian of the University be paid the
same salary he received previous to the suspension thereof, during
the.time of such suspension.
Resolved, That the Committee on the Library be authorized to
make such further rules regulating the Library as they may deem
advisable.
On motion, adjourned till 9 A. M. tomorrow morning.
Friday morning, Sept. I3th, I844.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Allen, Duffield, Kellogg, Kearsley, Pitcher, Manning.




292


SEPTEMl[BER MEETING, i844


On motion of Mr. Crane,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to obtain insurance upon the University Buildings at Ann Arbor, and
to erect such temporary barns, sheds, and other fixtures in and
about the Professors' houses as they shall deem just and expedient,
at the expense of this Board, and report thereon to this Board.'
Dr. Pitcher submitted the following, resolution, and
moved its adoption, supported by Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That the appointment of Professor of Moral Philosophy and of the Philosophy of History and Logic be conferred upon
the Rev. Andrew Ten Brook to take effect from the passage of this
resolution.
Resolved, That the Rev. Schuyler Seager be appointed Professor of Philosophy of the Human Mind and of Rhetoric and Oratory,
and that he shall enter upon the duties of said Professorship at such
period as the Regents may hereafter determine.
Resolved, That the duties of the last named Professor be discharged by the Reverend Andrew Ten Brook, until otherwise directed by this Board.
On motion of Mr. Manning, the resolutions were laid
upon the table to be taken up and acted upon at the next
meeting of the Board.
On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Committee on Professorships be requested
to apprise the Faculty of the University of the intention of the
Board to appoint an additional Professor and to make further distribution of the duties of Professorships.
On motion of Mr. Allen, a Committee of three was appointed to prepare the Annual Report of the Board to the
Superintendent of Public Instruction. The Chair announced
Messrs. Duffield, Allen, and Kearsley as such Committee.
The Committee on Professorshipsj on motion, were requested to inform the Rev. Mr. Ten Brook of his appointment as a Professor in the University.
On motion of Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That when this Board adjourn it adjourn to meet at
6:30 o'clock P. M. on Thursday next, succeeding the first Monday
of January next.
On motion of Major Kearsley,
Resolved, That such sum as may be deemed necessary by the
Professor of Geology, etc., not exceeding $I50 be and is hereby
appropriated for the use of the Chemical Department of the University.




JAAtUARY L1 MEE$TING, 1845


293


On like motion,
The said Professor was authorized to appoint an Assistant provided it should be of no expense to the Board.
Adjourned.
JANUARY MEETING, 1845.
Detroit, January 9th, I845.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Lieutenant-Governor Richardson, Messrs. Ransom, Whipple, Goodwin, Mundy, Crane,
Allen, Duffield, Kearsley, Pitcher.
Dr. Pitcher presented the report of the Principals of the
Tecumseh, Kalamazoo, and White Pigeon Branches, which
were ordered on file.
The application of the Principal of the White Pigeon
Branch for an alteration of the fall term of I845, was referred to the Committee on Branches with power to make
such arrangement with such Principal as they may deem advisable.
Mr. Duffield, from  the Committee on Branches, who
were instructed to communicate with the Principal of the
Romeo Branch, reported that they had corresponded with
such Principal, and the Committee were thereupon discharged from any further action on that subject.
Major Kearsley, from the Select Committee, appointed
to prepare 'the Annual Report to the Superintendent of
Public Instruction, made the following report, which was
adopted:
Sevenlth A1ntual Report of the Board of Regenlts.
In pursuance of the direction of the Board of Regents, the undersigned present the following as their report:
To the Superintendenit of Public IJlstruction:
It affords the Board the greatest pleasure to express the deep
and grateful sense of obligation under which they feel themselves
placed by the very efficient and opportune aid extended to them by
the last Legislature. For the two previous years it has been their
painful task and duty to set forth the embarrassments already experienced and yet further anticipated in sustaining the University
and its Branches. Happily, all ground of fear and cause of complaint have been removed by the Legislative Enactments during the




294


fJA4i UiARY MlEETING, 1845


last session of the Legislature, which have enabled the Board of
Regents to reduce their permanent debt, nearly $40,000, and their
floating incidental debt one-half. Nor is it the least gratifying circumstance that the arrangement by which this has been effected has
operated as propitiously to the interests of the State as to the
Board, by putting the former in possession of a valuable lot and
building adjacent to the railroad depot, which, while it furnishes
convenient offices for the various functionaries of the Government,
affords peculiar advantages from its location to citizens from the
interior of the State who have business to transact with them.
The fears once entertained have given place to sanguine hope,
and the Board take special satisfaction in the assurance thus given
by the Legislature that they feel a deep interest in the success and
prosperity of the University and are determined to render it what
its ample resources are abundantly capable of making it, an ornament as well as a blessing to the State.
The number of students in the University has increased during
the past year so much as to bring into requisition the whole of the
dormitories in the large and commodious building erected for their
use, which now is insufficient for the accommodation of all. An
extension of their edifices for this purpose, and the erection of a
Chemical Laboratory will very shortly become necessary.
The entire classes commonly organized in Collegiate Institutions are now formed and making progress in their studies in the
University. During the coming year the first class will be graduated, which, from past examination, may be confidently anticipated
will prove the first fruits and pledge of yet greater numbers of the
youth of our State to be introduced to the different Professors
through the instrumentality of the University.
The services of a gentleman have been secured for a season
without expense to the Board in the Professorship of Chemistry,
so as to meet the reasonable expectations and demands of the class
to be graduated and leave the Professorship open for the appointment of a permanent Professor when the funds of the Institution
will justify it and the number of the students render it necessary.
The report of the Committee with its appended documents
shows the amount by which the permanent debt has been reduced
to be $39,2I2.48. The disbursements of the Board during the past
year will be seen in the documents of the Finance Committee hereto appended, to have been less than the receipts and to have extinguished about one-half of the incidental debt of last year, thus
affording hope that at the expiration of the present year the Board
will be able to meet all its outstanding liabilities after paying the
current expenses.
The reports of the several standing Committees charged with
specific duties are appended in which the general condition and interests of the University are given in such detail as to render nothing further necessary from the Board.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
GEo. DUFFIELD,
J. KEARSLEY,
M. ALLEN.




JiANUA RY MIEETIANGj 1845


Seven, th Aniinal Report of the Fillnace Committee of the
University.
The undersigned 'Committee on Finance submit:-the followwiig'
report for the year ending November. 30th, I844, with the 'dDoCUments marked, B, C,' D, E.
Agreeably to statements herewith of the. Treasurer and Secretary of the Board of Regents, the receipts and disbursements for;
the year past are as follows:
1843                                           Dr.
Nov. 30 To amount of warrants outstanding.,..                      


1844
\Nov. 30


and unpaid per last report....... 
To amount due State Treasurer being an overdraft per last report...
To amount of warrant (duplicate No.
333) omitted as outstanding in report of Secretary for last year....
To amount of warrants drawn on
Treasurer of University since last
report per statement of Secretary
herew ith........................
To amount overdrawn and paid by
State  Treasurer.................


By amount of warrants paid by
Treasurer of University since last
report.............................
By over-draft per last report since
paid.............................
By balance carried to debit of next
account, viz.
Warrants unpaid outstanding $541.64
Cash overdrawn and paid by
State Treasurer........... 172.34


~I,I29.50
112.23




I33.33
2,976.23
172.34 $4,523.63
Cr.
$3,697.42
112.23
713.98 $4,523..63


As part of the University Interest Fund received during
the last year accrued during the year or two previous,
but the payment of which was deferred, the receipt of
interest for the year 1845 including the sales for internal improvement warrants bearing interest is estimated  at not  exceeding................o..............  $8,oo0.o
Deduct interest at 6 per cent and premium being payable in New York on $60,787.52, the
unpaid balance of the $Ioo,ooo loan....... $3,692.84
Deduct also unpaid outstanding warrants and
overdrafts  of last year...................  73.98   $4,406.82


Leaves the balance to meet the disbursements
of the Board of Regents for the year I845
Respectfully submitted,
J. KEARSLEY
RANDOLPH MANNING
Z. PITCHER
Detroit, December I6th, 1844.       Finance


$3,893.18


Committee.




296


JANUARY MEETING, I845


(B)
Warrants on Treasurer of University since Nov. 30th, 1843, to
Nov. 30th, 1844:
TInto


Sept. I Warrant No. 333, in favor of Rev. J. E. Chaplin, services Principal White Pigeon Branch
to Aug. 1843..............................
Dec. 13 Warrant No. 339, in favor of Rev. H. Colclazer,
salary as Librarian from  Ist March to Ist
June,   1843................................
Warrant No. 340, in favor of H. Colclazer, salary Librarian from  ist June to 22nd Nov.,
1843 (and postage, $).....................
Dec. I6 Warrant No. 341, in favor of Rev. J. E. Chaplin, salary Princ. White Pigeon Branch, term
ending Dec., 1843.........................
Dec. 23 Warrant No. 342 in favor of Jonathan Beach,
salary Tutor in Univ. from Nov. 8 to Dec. 23,
I843.....................................
1844.
Jan.  5 Warrant No. 343, in favor of Rev. A. M. Fitch
(Regent)   expenses  attending  meeting  of
Board.....................................
Warrant No. 344, in favor of Rev. A. M. Fitch
(Regent)   expenses  attending  meeting  of
B oard.....................................
Jan. 6 Warrant No. 345, in favor of B. L. Baxter, salary Principal Tecumseh Branch, term ending
Nov. 1843.................................
Jan. I9 Warrant No, 346, in favor of G. P. Williams,
salary Prof. in Univ. term ending Dec., 1843
Warrant No. 347, in favor of Booth for binding
catalogues.............................
Warrant No. 348 in favor of 0. Arnold for
painting   cottages..........................
Jan. 24 Warrant No. 349, in favor of N. A. Balch tor
taxes paid on lands in Kalamazoo County..
Warrant No. 350, in favor of Board of Regents
for purchase of right of Kilgore in Kalamazoo lands.................................
Jan. 31  Warrant No. 351, in favor of J. Whiting, salary
Prof. in Univ. from Oct. Ist, 1843, to Feb.
Ist,  1844............................
Feb. 3 Warrant No. 352, in favor H. W. Goodrich &
Co., for stoves, pipe, etc....................
Feb. I6 'Warrant No. 353, in favor of State Treasurer
for taxes on lands in Kalamazoo Co. for 1840
and I842..............................
Warrafit No. 354, in favor of Jas. A. B. Stone,
salary Prin. Kalamazoo Branch to Dec. 1843
Mar. 8 Warrant No. 355, in favor of D. C. Walker
(Regent) expenses attending several meetings  of  Board............................
Mar. 29  Warrant No. 356, in favor of B. L. Baxter salary, Principal Tecumseh Branch, term- ending
M arch,  1843...............................


$I33.33
25.00
49.3'
66.66
50.00
5.oo
3.00
66.66
IOQ.OO
5.0oo
i6.55
I2.34
25.00
I50.00
59.30
38.51
66.66
41.50


66.66




JANUARY M1/EETIrNG, I845


297


Apr. 2 Warrant No. 357, in favor of G. P. Williams,
salary, Prof. in Univ. bal. to Apr. 8, I844....  200.00
Warrant No. 358, in favor of R. Nutting, salary
Principal Romeo Branch from ist Dec. to
date.......................................66
Warrant No. 359, in favor of M. Allen (Regent) expenses attending meeting of Board..      7.50
Warrant No. 360, in favor of Jas. A. B. Stone,
salary Principal Kalamazoo Branch term ending  M arch,  1844...........................  66.66
Warrant No. 361, in favor of Jonathan Beach,
salary Tutor Univ. to Apr. 8, 844..........   00oo.oo
Apr. 4 Warrant No. 362, in favor of Rev. J. E. Chaplin,
salary Principal White Pigeon Branch term
ending  April,  1844.........................  66.66
May 21   Warrant No. 363, in favor of P. Kelly, services
Janitor in Univ. from Sept. 25, 1843, to May
25,  1844...................................  8o.oo
June  7 Warrant No. 364, in favor of Joseph Whiting,
salary Prof. in Univ. from Ist Feb. to Ist
June,  844.....................................   200.00
June 20 Warrant No. 365, in favor of A. S. Williams for
advertising  sale  of  lot......................  4.00
July ii Wararnt No. 366, in favor of Rev. A. M. Fitch
(Regent) expenses attending meeting of
Board.....................................  5.00
July I8 Warrant No. 367, in favor of B. L. Baxter, salary Principal, Tecumseh Branch, term ending
July,  1844.................................  66.66
Aug. 14 Warrant No. 368, in favor of G. P. Williams,
salary Prof. in Univ. to term ending this date  200.00
Warrant No. 369, in favor of Rev. J. E. Chaplin,
Principal, White Pigeon Branch term ending
July,  i844.................................  66.66
Warrant No. 370, in favor of Jonathan Beach,
salary Tutor in Univ. from May to Aug. 13,
1844........................................  I00.00
Warrant No. 37I, in favor of R. Nutting, salary
Principal Romeo Branch, term ending July,
I844......................................   66.66
Aug. 20 Warrant No. 372, in favor of Joseph Whiting,
salary, Prof. in Univ. from June ist to Aug.
15,  I844...................................  I25.00
Warrant No. 373, in favor of Joseph Whiting
for part advance and warrant on salary for
next  two  terms...........................   200.00
Sept. I2 Warrant No. 374, in favor of E. Crane (Regent) for expenses attending meeting of
B oard.....................................    9.00
Warrant No. 375, in favor of P. Kelly, Janitor
in Univ. to Aug. 25, I844, three months....     30.00
Sept. I6 Warrant No. 376, in favor of Rev. H. Colclazer
for services as Librarian' from 22 Nov., I843,
to  i6th  Sept., i844.............             82.56
Sept. 24 Warrant No. 377, in favor of A. Ten Eyck,
salary Sec. Board, one year and services as
Solicitor and Com'r. foreclosing mortgage...   I54.40




298,JA4NUAARY lMEETING, 1845


Warrant No. 378, in favor of Jas. A. B. Stone,
salary Principal Kalamazoo Branch, term
ending  July,  I844...................    66.66
Oct. 12 Warrant No. 379, in favor of 0. G. Moulton,
purchase of maps and Gazetteer of United
States....................................    15.00
Nov. ii Warrant No. 380, in favor of D. Houghton for
Zoological Department of University........  150.00
$2,976.23
Also Warrant No. 333 omitted in last year's
report.................................   33.00
~3,Io9.56
By your report of last year dated Dec. 14, I843, it appears that
the amount of outstanding warrants unpaid was $I,I29.50, "To
which must be added the amount of an over payment due to the
State Treasurer," of $112.23. (This does not include the warrant
first on this list, No. 333, for $I33.33. By accident this was omitted
last year in the list furnished you. It should have come in in
your last report, as you will see-by its date;)
MAJ. J. KEARSLEY,
Chairman, Finance Committee.
(C)
University Interest Fund in account with State Treasurer,
Dec. Ist, I843, to Nov. 30th, 1844.
Dr.
To balance overdrawn last year........................ $ 112.23
To this amount to pay interest on the $Ioo,ooo loan, including premium in- New York, etc.................  6,075.I
To paid Treasurer University.........................  3,688.48
$9,875.86
Cr.
By  Cash..............................................  $8,270.72
By transfers from Sinking Fund under Act 83, 1844.....  1,432.80
By  amount  overdrawn..................................   172.34
$9,875.86
State Treasurer's Office,
Detroit, Dec. 30th, 1844.
I certify the above to be a correct abstract of the account with
the University Interest Fund from the books of this office.
The balance to the credit of the principal of the University
Fund on the 30th ult. was $39,212.48, being for Treasury Notes
and Warrants received on account of principal of University Lands
sold for purchase money of the building in this city bought of the
Regents and for other warrants paid in by the Regents under the
provisions of the Act entitled, "An Act for the relief of the University of Michigan," approved March    i th, I844.  On the above
amount and on whatever further amount may be paid in to the
credit of the University Fund during the present fiscal year, the
University Fund will be entitled to a credit for interest quarterly
under the provisions of the above mentioned Act, and the University will therefore be relieved to that extent from meeting the inter



JAlNU4ARY iMEE7TIAG, 1845


299


est for the next year on the $Ioo,ooo loan. Under authority of
another Act of the Legislature at their last session, some temporary advances were made on the salaries of the Professors in
the University until last summer, when they were repaid, but it will
be seen that the University Interest Fund is again overdrawn nearly
$200.
MAJ. J. KRARSLEY,                    JOHN J. ADAM,
Chairman, Committee on Finance,        State Treasurer.
Board of Regents.


(D)
University of Michigan in account with John J. Adan
urer.
1844


June II


To paid warrant No. 307......................
To  paid  warrant  No. 31......................
To  paid  warrant No. 314.....................
To  paid  warrant  No. 315......................
To  paid  warrant  No. 317......................
To  paid  warrant  No. 318......................
To  paid  warrant No. 322......................
To paid warrant No. 328......................
To paid warrant No. 329......................
To paid warrant No. 330......................
To paid warrant No. 33......................
To paid warrant No. 332.....................
To paid warrant No. 333......................
To paid warrant No. 336......................
To paid warrant No. 338......................
To paid warrant No. 341......................
To  paid  warrant  No. 342......................
To  paid  warrant  No. 345......................
To  paid  warrant No. 346......................
To paid warrant No. 347......................
To  paid  warrant No. 348......................
To paid warrant No. 349......................
To  naid  warrant No. 350......................
To  paid  warrant  No. 351......................
To  paid  warrant No. 353......................
To  paid  warrant No. 354......................
To paid warrant No. 355.....................
To paid warrant No. 356......................
To  paid  warrant No. 357......................
To  paid  warrant  No. 358......................
To naid warrant No. 360......................
'To paid warrant No. 361......................
To paid warrant No. 362......................
To  paid  Warrant No. 363......................
Paid State Treasurer in internal imp. warrants
an d   in t....................................
To  paid  warrant  No. 311......................
To  paid  warrant No. 312......................
'To  paid  warrant No. 313......................
To  paid  warrant No. 316......................
To  paid  warrant  No. 335......................
To  paid  warrant No. 337......................
To  paid  warrant No. 339......................




n, TreasDr.
$  66.66
42.19
12.00
25.00
66.60
66.66
9.75
28.81
250.00
83.33
66.66
66.66
133.33
50.00
100.50
66.66
50.00
66.66
I00.00
5.oo
5.00
i6.55
12.34
25.00
150.00
38.5I
66.66
41.50
66.66
200.00
66.66
66.66
100.00
66.66
80.00
$2,553.27
20.57
6.o8
12.50
66. I
30.00
10.62
25.00




300


JANUARY MlEETING, 1845


To paid
To paid
To paid
To paid
To paid
Sept. I6 To paid
To paid
To paid
To paid
To paid
To paid
Nov. 30 To paid
To paid
To paid
To paid
To paid


warrant  No.  340......................
warrant  No.  343......................
warrant  No.  344......................
warrant No. 352......................
warrant  No.  359......................
warrant  No. 364.....................
warrant  No.  365......................
warrant  No.  366......................
warrant  No.  368......................
warrant  No.  370......................
warrant  No.  372......................
warrant No. 275......................
warrant  No.  374......................
warrant  No.  376......................
warrant  No.  377......................
warrant No. 380......................


49.31
5.oo
3.00
59.30
7.50
200.00
4.00
5.oo
200.00
I00.00
125.00
18.74
9.oo
82.56
154.40
150.0o
$6,250.69
Cr.
$2,353.73
2,553.27
8.94
920.05
414.70
$6,250.69
$6,250.69


1844
June II
Sept. 16
June II
June II
Nov. 30


By cash from State Treasurer.................
Int. imp. warrants and int. recd. of A. H. Sibley,
late   T reas................................
By  cash   from   do..............................
By cash from   State Treasury.................
By cash from  State Treasury.................
Brought   forward............................


The amount of University warrants outstanding on the
30th Nov., 1843, as per report of Committee of
Finance  last  year  was..............................  $I,29.50
Add for warrant 333, omitted in register of Sec. Board
R egents.......................................     33.33
Warrants drawn Dec. I, 18J3, to Nov. 30, I844, Nos. 339 to
380   inclusive.....................................  2,976.23
$4,239.06
Deduct warrants paid Dec. i, 1843, to Nov. 30, 1844...... 3,697.42
Leaves outstanding Nov. 30, 1844....................... $ 541.64
(E)
University Warrants outstanding, November 30, 1844.
No.   Date                 In Whose Favor               Amount
1843
324 Apr.   5 ]. Crane, expenses as member Board of
Regents..............................    30.00
1844
367 July I8   B. L. Baxter, Principal Tecumseh Branch..    66.66
369 Aug. 12 J. E. Chaplin, Principal White Pigeon
B ranch................................  66.66
37I Aug. 12 R. Nutting, Principal Romeo Branch........     66.66
373  Aug. 20 J. Whiting, for term ending May, 1845, Prolessor.................................  200.00




JAUiA4RY MEETING, 1843


301


375 Sept. 12 P. Kelly, services as Janitor...............  3n.oo
378 Sept. 24 J. A. B. Stone, Principal Kalamazoo Branch  66.66
379  Oct.  I2  0. G. Moulton  for map, etc.................  I5.00
$541.64
Detroit, November 30th, I844..MAJ. J. KEARSLEY, Chairman,         JOHN J. ADAM,
Committee on Finance,                Treasurer, University.
Board Regents.
Annual Report of the Executive Co,01littee.
For a detailed statement of the Course of Study pursued during the past year by the several classes now organized at the University, the Committee ask leave to refer to the report of the Faculty
hereto annexed. The Committee take pleasure in presenting this
Report of the Faculty to the Board of Regents as it contains gratifying evidence of the fidelity of the Professors and of the progress
of the pupils in those pursuits which tend to elevate themr in the
scale of intelligence which at the same 'time they are taught to
keep in mind their relation to Him "Who in his strength setteth
fast the mountains," and hath said, "Verily there is a reward for the
righteous, doubtless there is a God that judgeth the earth."  Since
the date of the last Annual Report of the Committee to the
Board and at a time he was expected to enter upon the discharge,of his duties, the Reverend Edward Thomson, Professor of Moral
and Mental Philosophy, found it necessary under the paramount
claims for his services from the religious body with which he is
connected to resign his appointment. At a special meeting of the
Board of Regents held soon after, the Reverend Andrew Ten
Brook was appointed to the Chair vacated by the resignation of
Dr. Thomson, who entered upon the discharge of his duties at the
beginning of the present collegiate year. The discontinuance of
the Preparatory Department which was established under the per-.sonal superintendence of the Professors coetaneously with the University, also suspended the appointment of Tutor held by Mr.
Beach. On the formation of a Senior Class in the University, it
was found that the aid of a Tutor to the Professor of Languages
was indispensable. Such an appointment was accordingly conferred,on Burritt A. Smith, A.B. Silas H. Douglass, M.D., has also been
appointed an Assistant to the Professor of Geology and Mineralogy
with special reference to the performance of duties appertaining to
the Chair of Chemistry.
The following is a Catalogue of the Faculty resident at the
University.
Rev. Joseph Whiting, A.M., Professor of Latin and Greek.
Rev. G. P. Williams, A.M., Professor of Mathematics, etc.
Rev. Andrew   Ten Brook, A.M., Professor of Mental and
Moral Philosophy.
Silas H. Douglass, M.D., Assistant to Professor of Geology, etc.
Burritt A. Smith, A.B., Tutor.
Professors Houghton and Sager being non-residents and not,engaged in the business of instruction are not included in the foregoing schedule.
Your Committee would earnestly call the attention of the Board




302


JXJANUA,/RY M/EETING, 1845


to the necessity which still exists of making arrangements for the
purchase of the more essential articles of a Philosophical Apparatus
and the construction of a Chemical Laboratory.
Respectfully submitted in behalf of the Committee.
ZINA PITCHER, Chairman.
Detroit, December Ioth, I844.
ANNUAL REPORT OF THVE FACULTY.
To the Chairnmalna, of the Executive Colzmmnittee of the Board (o
Regents of the Unliversity of 1lMichiganz:
There are now in the University four classes and an aggregate
of fifty-two stude:nts. The Catalogue will soon be published and
forwarded to the Committee..
During the year included in this report, the Senior Class have
read and reviewed as follows:
In the Department of Mathematics and Natural Science, Olnmsted's Natural Philosophy, Vol. 2nd; Kanes' Chemistry, 5oo pages;
and Olmsted's Astronomy with the calculations of four eclipses for
the year I845.
In the Department of Literature, Sophocles' Oedipus Tyrannus
and extracts from Greek Anthology; also exercises in Forensic
Disputations and English Composition.
In the Department of Moral and Mental Science, Paley's Natural Theology, Stuart's Philosophy of the Human Mind, and Cousin's
Psychology. On all the principal subjects treated in the last two
works, essays have been written by the class.
The Junior Class have read and reviewed as follows:
In the Department of Mathematics and Natural Science, Davies'
Descriptive Geometry, 144 pages; Davies' Analytical Geometry, 200
pages; Bridge's Conic Sections; and Olmsted's Natural Philosophy,
Vol. I st.
In the Department of Literature, Homer's Iliad, two books;
extracts from  Sophocles, Demosthenes, and' Plato, 70 pages. Soo
Cicero de Officiis, de Oratore, de Senectute, and de Amicitia, Tacitus's Germania, and Vita AgricolT, and Newman's Rhetoric.
The Sophomore Class have read and reviewed as follows:
In Mathematics, Bourdon's Algebra, Ioo pages; Legendre's
Geometry; Application of Algebra to Geometry, 25 problems; and
Plane and Spherical Trigonometry.
In Languages, Homer's Iliad, 4 books; extracts from Xenophon
and Herodotus; Livy, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th Books and all of
Horace except some of the Epistles.
The Freshman Class have read and reviewed as follows:
In Mathematics, Bourdon's Allgebra, 170 pages.
In the Department of Literature, Latin and Greek Grammars:
reviewed Livy, 15 pages; and Xenophon's Cyropedia in the Graeca
Majora, 15 pages. Weekly translations have also been written by
the class.
In addition to the above, all the classes have had a weekly
exercise in Composition and Elocution.
It will be seen by the above that by reporting at the close of'
the first term of the collegiate year, two-thirds of the studlies of each
class, as reported will be those pursued under their former name..




JANUAR Y lIEETINi, G       845            303
For this reason as well as for other reasons, which will naturally
suggest themselves to the Committee, the Faculty have thought
it better that their report should hereafter be given at the end of
the collegiate year and would respectfully recommend the same.
They would further suggest whether it would not be sufficient
for the Faculty to make their Annual Report upon those general
matters relating to the condition of the University which cannot
be embraced in a catalogue, and refer the Committee to the CataIogue for items which it embraces. The Catalogue will be expected
to embrace as correctly as report can, the number of students with
the studies pursued by them, and no more.
The students are required to attend Religious exercises, reading
of the Scriptures, and prayer every morning and to attend on the
Sabbath such place of worship as their-parents or guardians may
wish. Aside from this, the Faculty exercise no control over the
students in the matter of religion; but the students have, as many
of them as are so disposed, a social meeting on some part of the
Sabbath, and on a week day evening entirely subject to their own
direction. The moral influence among the students is as good as at
any place of the kind. Where cases of discipline have been necessary, they have been attended with salutary effect, and there have
been fewer demonstrations of insubordination than in eastern institutions of like character. The moral sense of the students is generally good, and those who have committed improprieties seem never
to have done it for the purpose of arraying themselves against the
exercise of wholesome discipline.
The Faculty would further suggest that the Regents have their
representatives in the form of.a Visiting Committee or some other
form, at all the examinations, as this will prevent the necessity of
repeating an examination upon all the studies of the year at its
close.
Respectfully submitted in behalf of the Faculty,
ANDREW TEN BROOK.
Report of the Cololltittee oni Branches.
The Committee on Branches, in compliance with a resolution
of the Board, submit their Annual Report for the collegiate year
ending August, 1844.
At the date of their last Annual Report the following Branches
were open under the charge of the gentlemen whose names are
annexed:
Kalamazoo-Rev. J. A. B. Stone, No. Pupils.......... 66
White Pigeon-Rev. J. E. Chaplin, No. Pupils.......... 28
Tecumseh-B. L. Baxter, No. Pupils................. 39
T otal....................  133
Since the above was published the academy at Romeo has been.
made a Branch of the University, which is now as heretofore, under
the care of the Rev. Rufus Nutting, and the Branch at Monroe has
been revived under the direction of Mr. Mayhew, but without the
aid of an appropriation.
The following represents the condition of the several Branches
at the close of the year excepting Romeo and Monroe. The last
report from the former bears date, April, I844.




304


JANi UARY 11IEETIN\G, 1845


Kalamazoo-Rev. J. A. B. Stone, Principal, three assistant teachers
and 86 pupils.
White Pigeon-Rev. J. Chaplin, Principal, 32 pupils.
Tecumseh-B. L. Baxter, A.B., Principal, two assistant teachers
and 75 pupils.
Romeo-Rev. Rufus Nutting, Principal, three assistant 'teachers
and Io5 pupils.
Monroe-Ira Mayhew, Principal.
Whole number of pupils in the several Branches from which reports
have  been  received.................................  298
Fem ale................................................   72
M ale..................................................  226  298
Classical.............................................. 
Of the latter, 47 were at Romeo, 21 at Tecumseh, 32 at Kalamazoo, and ii at White Pigeon.
Respectfully submitted,
Detroit, December Io, I844.       Z. PITCHER, Chairman.
Maj. Kearsley, from the special Committee to whom was
referred the communication of the Reviser of the Laws of
this State made a report which on motion was laid upon the
table, with instructions to prepare a Bill in accordance with
the report.
Dr. Pitcher presented a petition from the citizens' of
St. Clair for the establishment of a Branch at that place,
which was referred to the Committee on Branches.
Dr. Pitcher from the Committee on the Library, made
the following report:
The Library Comm1ittee Report:
That under the authority conferred by a resolution of the
Board of Regents dated August I2th, 1844, they have purchased
Smith's Map of the United States with the Gazetteer, at the subscription price.
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCCHER, Chairman.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Executive Committee to whom the
matter was referred made the following report which was
adopted:
The Executive Committee to whom the subject was referred
ask leave to report the following resolution in relation to vacations:
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCHER,
M. ALLEN,
B. MUNDY,
Committee.
Resolved, That the vacations allowed at the University be
'arranged as follows: from Commencement, the first Wednesday of
August, six weeks; from the Wednesday preceding the 25th December, two weeks; from the third Wednesday in April, four weeks.




JANUARY MVEETING, 1845


305


Dr. Pitcher, from  the Executive Committee, made the
following report:
The Executive Committee who were instructed by the Board
of Regents to effect Insurance on the University Buildings and
their contents, respectfully report:
That they have been unable to comply with the directions of
the Board in consequence of the extra hazard occasioned by the
Chemical Laboratory, which is in the same buiding with the Library and Mineral Cabinet. The Executive Committee would therefore recommend that the Committee on Finance be requested to
consider and report upon the expediency and practicability of erecting either a temporary and cheap building expressly for a Laboratory or of commencing the edifice known in the plan of the University as the "Chapel," and so ordering the arrangement of the interior
as to furnish a room for the Laboratory, a lecture room and Chapel,
all under the same roof.
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCH ER,
M. ALLEN,
E. MUNDY,
Detroit, Jan. gth, 1845.           Ex. Committee.
The above report was, on motion of Maj. Kearsley, recommitted to the Committee, with instructions to procure a
suitable room for the Chemical Laboratory of the University.
'The resolutions laid upon the table at the last meeting
of the Board by Dr. Pitcher, were taken up and on leave
of the Board the same were withdrawn and the following
adopted as a substitute:
Resolved, That the Committee on Professorships be requested
to present to this Board the name of some person suitably qualified
to perform the duties of Professor of Logic, Rhetoric, and Philosophy of History, at its next Quarterly or adjourned meeting.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Committee on Professorships, etc., be requested to report at the next meeting of this Board, a form of
Diploma.
Resolved, That the Committee on Professorships, etc., be requested to report the channel through which evidence of scholarship will be required by this Board previous to conferring degrees.
Resolved, That the Committee on Professorships, etc., be re-quested to report the form and by whom degrees shall be conferred.
On motion of Maj. 'Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Faculty be authorized to cause such repairs
to be made upon the University Buildings from time to time as,cannot be delayed without injury to the buildings, and that the:amount thereof be paid from the fund designed for that object.




306  SECOND JANUARY MEETING, 1845


On motion of Mr. Mundy, the vote recommitting the
report of the Executive Committee in relation to insurance,
etc., with instructions, was reconsidered and the report laid
upon the table.
On motion of Mr. Allen,
Resolved, That the Committee on the Branches be instructed to
inquire into the propriety of dividing the amount -appropriated to
the support of the Branches in proportion to the number of students
taught, having regard! to the studies pursued by each student, and
report to this Board.
On motion of Mr. Whipple, the account of Dr. Ioughton presented this evening, was referred to the Auditing
Committee with instructions to audit the same.
The account of the Internal Improvement Office for a
bell, etc., was, on motion of Mr. Whipple, referred to the
Finance Committee.
On motion, the Board adjourned till 6:30 P. MX., tomorrow.
Jan, ioth, 1845.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Pitcher, Kearsley,
Felch, and Whipple.
A quorum not appearing, the Board adjourned till Tuesday evening, the I4th instant.
ADJOURNED JANUARY MEETING, 1845.
Detroit, January 14th, 1845.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Ransom, Felch, aWhipple, Pitcher, Kearsley, Goodwin, and Duffield.
The Proceedings of last meeting were read and approved.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Finance Committee, to whom
was referred the account of the Internal Improvement
Office for a bell, etc., made the following report, which was
accepted:
The Committee on Finance to whom was referred the account
of the State Board of Internal Improvement for a bell and hangings belonging to the Central Rail Road and now in possession of




SECOND JANUARY Jl/EETING, 1845


307


the Regents and used at the University Buildings at Ann Arbor,
report, that believing said bell to be too small for the permanent
purpose of the University, your Committee deem   the purchase
thereof inexpedient. The Chairman of said Committee has therefore borrowed said bell and hangings and given his receipt therefor,
covenanting to return the same on demand.
January I4th, I845-. J. EARSLVY, Chairman.
Maj. Kearsley, from    the Committee on Branches, to
whom was referred a petition of citizens of St. Clair for
the location of a Branch of the University at that place,
made the following report, which was accepted and the
resolution of the Committee was adopted:
The Committee on Branches, to whom the matter of the petition
of the inhabitants of St. Clair County and others for the location
of a Branch of the University at Palmer (now called St. Clair)
village, in said county, report:
The following appears upon the record of the Board of Regents
to have been the action of said Board:
On the I4th Nov., 1837, the Committee on Branches made a
report submitting therewith the report of Dr. Gibson (an agent
appointed by the Board of Regents) in which a location of a Branch
at the village of Palmer is recommended, Jan. 6th, 1838. So much
of the report of Dr. Gibson as recommends the establishment of a
Branch at Palmer was agreed to Sept. I7th, 1838. The Secretary of
the Board was directed to furnish the Superintendent of Public
Instruction with a list of Branches established for his approval.
January Ioth, I845, the approval of Superintendent of Public Instruction was filed. Your Committee therefore submit the following resolution:
Resolved, That as a Branch of the University has been heretofore established at the village of Palmer (now called St. Clair)
subject to the conditions required by the Board, which conditions
do not appear to have been complied with, and it being incompatible
with the financial condition of the Board to make any appropriation
in aid of said Branch, further action relative thereto is not
required.
Maj. Kearsley, from the same Committee, who were instructed to inquire into the propriety of dividing' the amount
appropriated to the support of the Branches, etc., made the
following report, which, on motion of Maj. Kearsley, was
laid upon the table.
The Committee on Branches, to whom was referred the following resolution:
That the Committee on Branches be instructed to inquire into
the propriety of dividing the amount appropriated to the support
of the Branches in proportion to the number of students taught,
having regard to the studies pursuedl by each student and report
to this Board, beg leave to report:
The Committee have given that consideration to this resolution
lwhich its importance demands.




3o8   SECONtD JANAUARY MEETIVNG, 1845


The primary object, in the opinion of your Committee, with
the Board of Regents should be to adopt such measures as shall
receive the greatest number of students properly qualified for admission to the parent Institution.
The condition of the finances of the Board renders it inexpedient to increase the annual amout at present appropriated to
Branches, and for this reason, complaints are indulged that the
Regents make appropriations annually to some Branches andl not to
6thers; also, that many institutions of learning within this State
have been neglected.
Therefore, to obviate all just cause -for dissatisfaction and
to incite in all instructors of youth a laudable emulation to advance
the interests of the University, your Committee recommend the
adoption of the following:
Resolved, That from and after the commencement of the next
academic year, which will be in September, I845, the aggregate sum
of $8o0 annually be appropriated for sustaining and encouraging
the instruction of pupils in such Course of Studies as shall qualify
them for admission to the Freshman, or other more advanced classes
in the University, and that said aggregate appropriation shall be
divided and distributed to the several Principals of Branches and
Principals of all the Institutions in this State in proportion to
the number of students that may be admitted within the year to the
University, as aforesaid, prepared by said respective Institutions,
and all Institutions of Learning within this State not heretofore
recognized as Branches that shall furnish students as aforesaid
shall be considered Branches of the University. Provided, however,
that no sum exceeding $20 shall be allowed or paid for any one
scholar admitted to the University, as aforesaid. Provided, also,
that no such recognition of Branches shall conflict with the Organic
Law relating to this subject. Which report was laid upon the
table.
The report of the special Committee to whom     was referred the communication of the Reviser of the Laws and
which report was laid upon the ta'ble at the meeting of the
9th instant with instruction, etc., was taken up for consideration.  The question being upon the adoption of the first
amendment proposed by the Committee, the same was disagreed upon, when, on motion of Maj. Kearsley, said report
was committed to the Judges of the Supreme Court with
instructions to make such suggestions to the Reviser of the
Laws in reference to the Organic Law of the University as
to them may seem meet and proper.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the vote was taken upon
the passage of the resolution of the 9th instant requiring
Professors Whiting and Williams to pay over the sum of
$440, was reconsidered and on like motion the following
was adopted as a substitute.




APRIL MEETING, G1845


3c9


Resolved, That the sum of $440, heretofore required to be paid
by Professors Whiting and Williams, be remitted and that the payment of such sum be assumed by this Board.
On motion of Justice Whipple,
Resolved, That the Finance Committee, in conjunction with
Professor Houghton, be authorized to effect an insurance upon the
buildings belonging to the University at Ann Arbor.
On motion of Justice Whipple,
Resolved, That the Committee on Professorships be directed to
report some plan at the next Quarterly Meeting by which to prevent
the recurrence of frequent meetings of the Board of Regents.
On motion of Justice;Whipple, the Board adjourned till
ist Tuesday of April next, at 7 o'clock, P. iM.
APRIL MEETING, 1845.
Detroit, April ist, 1845.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher,
Manning, Allen, and Duffield.
A  quorum    not being present, on motion, the Board
adjourned to I7th instant at 7 o'clock, P. M.
Detroit, April I7th, 1845.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Governor Barry, Messrs. Kearsley, Lane, Pitcher, Allen, Wing, Owen, Manning', Crane, Goodwin, \Mundy.
Major Kearsley, from  the Finance Committee, reported that
the Insurance authorized to be effected January last on the University Buildings and Cabinets at Ann Arbor to the amount of $40,000
had been perfected and the policies of insurance were deposited
with the Treasurer of this Board for safe keeping.
The Committee on Professorships, to whom was referred
the resolution to prevent frequent recurrence of meetings
of the Board, etc., made a report which being amended was
ordered to be filed.
Report of the Com71'ittee onl Professorships,1 etc.
The Committee on Professorships present the following report
to the Board of Regents on the several topics referred to their
attention:
1 In the MS. this Report stands at the end of the Ainutes of this meeting.




210


1  APRIL AJIlEETING, T1845


The Committee are not aware that there is any diversity of
sentiment among the members of the Board on the subjects submitted to their attention. Believing themselves, therefore, to have
been appointed merely to embody and present in some compact
and systematic form, the views which are generally entertained by
the Regents, they present the following series of resolutions for
the consideration of the Board:
ist. A plan to prevent frequent meetings of the Board of
Regents.
Resolved, ist. The Board will hold but one general meeting
during the year, which shall be held annually on the day before the
Commencement, in the room occupied by the Library of the University at Ann Arbor, and shall be called the "Annual Meeting."
2nd. The sessions of the Board shall be continued from day
to day at the Annual Meeting, until all the business requiring the
attention of the Board shall have been dispatched.
3rd. The business to be brought before the meeting shall be
as follows, and in the following order:
(I.) The reading of the Minutes of the last session from
the volume in which they shall have been recorded by the
Secretary.
(2.) The amendment of the same, if judged necessary.
(3.) The presentation of pecuniary claims which have
not been provided for, and which no standing Committee has
been clothed with authority to adjust and settle.
(4;) The presentation of memorials and petitions, if there
shall be any.
(5.) The presentation and consideration of reports from
standing Committees and the Faculty, as hereinafter provided
for.
(6.) Resolutions of inquiry, or business that may be
introduced by members.
(7.) Adjournment.
4th. There shall, be the following standing Committees appointed at each Annual Meeting before the adjournment, viz.
(I.) The Committee on Branches, to consist of three members
to whom shall pertain all the business of the Branches under the
direction of the Board, and whose doings shall be reported to the
Board at their Annual Meeting; in which report shall be embodied
a full and accurate statement of the statistics and other information
necessary, relative to the history and actual condition of each
Branch; who shall audit the accounts for salaries of the Principals
of the Branches.
(2.) The Executive Committee, which shall consist of not
less than five members, who shall be authorized and required to
appoint a Tutor and Janitor, or Inspector of the College Building
and premises, whenever either of these offices shall become vacant
at any other time than at the meeting of the Board; who shall order
such repairs of the buildings of the University as they shall judge
necessary for the preservation and protection of the property; who
shall co-operate with the Faculty in all matters in which their
advice and assistance may be desired by the Faculty; who shall audit
the accounts of the Faculty and Janitor, who shall have charge of
all expenditures authorized by the Board of Regents, and give orders
on the Treasurer for the payment of the salaries of Professors and




APRIL MI1EETI\NG, 184.5


31 I


Tutors, and other authorized expenses, who shall examine and
adjust all accounts which persons may have with the University, and
if for services or claims not authorized and acknowledged by the
Board, to prepare the same for presentation at the Annual Meeting;
who shall have power to institute or cause to be instituted suits in
the name of the Board of Regents for the recovery or preservation
of the College Property and interest, whenever it shall be necessary;
who shall do and manage all other matters and things which shall
be from time to time authorized or required by the Board, and who:shall annually make a full and exact report of their doings at the
Annual Meeting to the Board of Regents. The meetings of this
Committee shall be called by its Chairman from time to time. A
faithful record of the Proceedings shall be kept, which shall be
submitted annually'to the inspection of the Board. A major part of
the Committee shall have power to act, and, when any other members of the Board shall be present at the meetings of the Committee,
they shall have the same power of acting with the members of the
Committee, in appointing Tutor, Librarian, etc., and in all other
matters in which their advice and assistance shall be desired by
the Committee. In case of the death of a Professor, the Executive
Committee shall meet at the University and make, in co-operation
with the Faculty, such regulations, and give such orders and directions, as they may judge necessary, which shall be observed till
there shall be a meeting of the Board and which meeting the Committee shall call as speedily as convenient.
The appointment of a Tutor shall be always understood to
be for two years, unless he shall be permitted to resign by the
Committee sooner. Where a Tutor shall resign, or enter on his
office at any other time than the Commencement, his part of the
salary for the year ending at the next Commencement, shall be
apportioned to the time of his instruction, exclusive or vacations.
The Faculty, at Commencement during the meeting of the Board,
shall annually designate one of their members as the Presiding Officer.
(3.) The Committee of Finance shall consist of three members
of the Board who shall make to the Board, at their Annual Meeting, a statement and report of the expenditures of the College, the
state of the Treasury, the revenues and funds of the University,:and probable receipts for the ensuing year.
(4.) The Examining Committee, to consist of five members,
whose duty it shall be to attend the examinations of the students
by the Faculty, at the close of the second and third terms, and
make report of the same to the Board.
The Board may, from time to time, appoint special Committees
whose powers shall be confined to.the specific matters referred to
them.
The Commencement shall take place the first Wednesday in
August in each year; the exercises of the students on which occasion having been arranged by the Faculty, shall be conducted in the
presence of the Board, and such of the citizens of the State as may
see fit to attend.
2nd. The channel through which evidence of scholarship is
required by the Board for conferring degrees:
(I.)  No student shall be admitted to the first degree of Bachelor of Arts who has not attended and performed the Course of
Academical Exercises, as appointed by Law, for the space of four




3I 2


APRIL A 4EETAING, 1845


years, except such as have been regularly admitted to an advanced
standing, nor unless, on the examination to be held at the close of
the studies of the Senior Year, or a subsequent special examination appointed by the Faculty, he shall have been approved as a
candidate for the same, and have produced a certificate from the
Chairman of the Executive Committee that he has paid all- that is
due from him to the University.
(2.) All candidates for either degree shall be personally present, unless the Faculty shall judge it proper to' confer the honor
of a degree on an absent candidate.
(3.) No candidate for the second degree of Master of Arts
shall receive this honor, unless he has preserved a good moral
character, and previously to the Commencement, have signified his
desire of the same to the Faculty.
(4.) There shall be, at the expiration of every College Term.
an examination of all the classes on the studies in which they have
been engaged during that term. The week preceding the Commencement, the Senior Class shall be examined, not only on the
subjects studied during that term, but also in a general examination
embracing the entire range of collegiate studies. In this last examination, there shall not be the same particularity of detail or exactness required as in others, but sufficient to enable the Faculty and
Examining Committee to ascertain that they have retained the
general principles and outlines of collegiate studies.
(5.) The Faculty, shall, on the first day of the Annual Meeting, transmit a report to the Board of Regents with the endorsements of a majority of the Examining Committee who may have
attended embracing the name in full of each student to be admitted,
and recommend them severally to the first degree of Bachelor of
Arts, and also the name of their several places of residence, whereupon, the Board shall, in their discretion pass a resolution to confer
the same, and make record of the fact, inserting in full on their
Minutes the report of the Faculty.
(6.) The report of the Faculty shall also be made to the
Board stating the names and places of residence of those Alumni
of the University whom they recommend for the second degree of
Master of Arts, in relation to whom a similar resolution as above
shall in like manner be adopted by the Board.
(7.)  Copies of these acts of the Board shall be drawn out
in full by the Secretary and transmitted forthwith to the Faculty,
as their warrant for holding the Commencement for conferring
degrees.
3rd. The manner of procedure in conferring degrees, and the
form to be used on the occasion:
(I.) The conferring of degrees shall be by the presiding officer of the Faculty, with the concurrence of his fellow  officers:
present, in the name and by the authority of the Board of Regents.
(2.) The certificate or diploma shall be made out at the expense of the Board and delivered to each graduate, free of charge.
(3.) It' shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Board to
procure a sufficient number of diplomas, and, having inserted the
name of each graduate, procure the signatures of such members of
the Board as are present at the Annual Meeting and also of the
Faculty; and himself having certified to the registration of the order'
of the Board for issuing the same, affix to each the seal of the'
Corporation.




iAPRIL    MLTEETITNG, I845


313


(4.) The candidates for degrees shall attend such public
procession on Commencement Day as the Faculty 'may direct, and
perform such public exercises as may have been previously appointed them. No public exhibition or exercise shall be allowed without
the approval of the Faculty. A failure in either respect on the part
of a student, shall be considered a warrant for the Presiding Officer
of the Faculty to withhold his degree.
(5.) The business or public exercises of the Day slall commence and close with prayer, and be conducted agreeably to the
order prescribed by the Faculty.   The Presiding Officer shall
deliver a charge to the class immediately after the delivering of
the diplomas.
(6.)  There shall be no military parade, bands of professional
musicians, illuminations, or fireworks, balls, parties, for feasting
hy the students on the occasion of the Commencement.
(7.) There shall be a convenient stage erected at the expense
of the graduating class, under the direction of the Faculty, for
the accommodation of the students of the Senior Class, the Faculty,
and the Board of Regents, during the Commencement Exercises.
(8.) The Secretary of the Board shall deliver to the Presiding
Officer of the Faculty, the diplomas duly prepared and signed previously to his conferring the same.
(9.) The Presiding Officer of the Faculty shall read the resolution of the Board of Regents, an engrossed and fairly written
copy of which shall have been transmitted to him by the Secretary
of the Board immediately after its adoption. Having read the same,
he shall thereupon announce to the assembly that as the organ of
the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan, he proceeds to
deliver to the graduating class their diplomas and to admit them
to the degree of Bachelor of Arts. He shall call the name of each
distinctly and gathering them around or before him, in groups of
three, four, or five together, deliver the diplomas, addressing them
as follows:
"Auctoritate Procuratorum hujus Universitatis mihi data, ad
primum gradum Artium Liberalium, vos, adolescentes admitto.
In testimonium, cujus, has literas, ab iis decretas, vobis trado
donoque."
(io.) When the alumnus or honorary degree of Master of
Arts, or any other honorary degrees are conferred, the names shall
be publicly pronounced by the Presiding Officer, and annunciation
of the same be made to the assembly, and copies of the resolutions
of the Board relative to the conferring of the same shall be transmittedh by the Secretary of the Board to the different persons
on whom honorary degrees may thus have been conferred.
(II.) The following shall be the form of diploma, which shall
be inscribed from a copper plate procured at the expense of the
Board of Regents on parchment, and signed by the Regents who
may be in attendance at Commencement, or any others of the
Board, attested by the Faculty and countersigned by the Secretary,
with the seal of the University attached:




314


3APRIL 3EEETING, 1845


PROCURATORES1
Universitatis Reipublicwe Michiganensium,
Omnibus has literas perlecturis,
Salutem.
Sciatis  quod.................................. Juvenem
ingenuum et probum, post varia philosophiae et literarum
bonarum  peritiae tentarina, Professoribus Academicis et
nobis data Titulo Graduque Artium   liberalium  BACCALAUREI adornavimus: et ei fruenda dedimus omnia Jura.
Privilegia, Immunitates, Dignitates, Honores, et Insignia,
qua, hic aut uspiam gentium, ad eundem gradum BACCALAUREALEM evectis, concedi solent.
In cujus testimonium Literis hisce publicum Universitatis Sigillum et nostra Chirographa apposuimus.
Datum  ex Tedibus Universitatis die........Augusti Anno
Salutis  millesimo  octingentesimo.........................
annoque Universitatis et Reipublice Michiganensium.
Professores........            Procurators........
In tabulas relata.........................Praeses.
Die.......................  Secretarius.
On motion,
Resolved, That the report above referred to be adopted and
continued in force until the next Commencement Day and that in
che meantime the Secretary procure the same to be printed and a,copy thereof transmitted to each member of the Board, provided
that the above shall not affect the present organization of Commnittees.
MIr. Allen presented the petition of G. W. Smith upon
which Dr. Pitcher moved the following, which was adopted:
Resolved, That this Board regard any departure from the prescribed Course of Study in the University as subversive to the true
interests of the Institution and that therefore the petitioner.have
leave to withdraw his petition.
Dr. Pitcher presented the folloling resolution relating
to the above report of the Committee on Professorships:
Resolved, That the several Committees contemplated in the
preceding regulations be appointed by the President of the Board.
The President appointed Messrs. Duffield, Wing, Kearsley, Allen, and Pitcher, as the Examiniing Committee at the
next annual examination of the University.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be instructed to collect the rent of the Professor's Building occupied by Justice Felch
and pay over the same to the Treasurer of the University.
t The MAs. text has been corrected slightly here, from the Diploma issued
to a member of the class of I847, and now placed in Mlemorial Hall by his
daughter.




APRICL M1 EETING, 1845


3i5


On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That Professor Sager be requested to devote as much
time during the first tw'o months of the next term as may be necessary to give an elementary course of instruction in the Department
of Botany and Zoology and that the selection of text books on
those subjects be left to the Faculty and that he be paid pro rata
for the time engaged.
Dr. Pitcher presented the following resolution, which
was referred to the Executive Committee:
Resolved, That all students of the University who at the close,of the Junior Year shall have attained a grade of scholarship hereafter to be established by this Board, may become candidates for
honors to be conferred by the Governor of the State as provided
for in the following resolution.
Resolved, That every such student of the University as shall
under the foregoing provisions have become a candidate for the
prizes or honors to be conferred by the State Executive and has
accomplished the Course of Study hereafter to be prescribed, shall
be entitled to receive from the Governor such marks of distinction
as this Board shall by its subsequent Proceedings designate.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Auditing Committee audit the account of
George R. Marsh, with interest thereon.
Mr. Allen moved that the Report of the Committee on
Branches, laid upon the table the 14th January last, be
taken from the table, which motion was lost.
Dr. Pitcher moved a reconsideration and on motion of
same, the report and resolution were recommitted to the
Committee on Branches.
On motion of Mr. Allen,
Resolved, That the Finance Committee make a report of the
financial affairs of the Board at the next meeting of the Board.
On motion of Mr. Crane,
Resolved, That in the event of the resignation of the present
Secretary of this Board, the Committee on Branches appoint a
Secretary pro temp ore.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That it be referred to a Committee of this Board to
propose the form of a Diploma to be used by the University and that
said Committee procure a copper plate engraving of the same at.the expense of the Board.




31i6           iUGUST MlEETI G, 185,Messrs. Kearsley, Duffield, and   the President were
appointed said Committee.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at Ann Arbor
on the 5th August following.
AUGUST MEETING, 1845.
Ann Arbor, August 5th, I845.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Kearsley, Goodwin, Felch, Duffield,
Wing, Lane, Allen, Crane, Fletcher, Mundy, and Fitch.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, Justice Goodwin was called
to the Chair.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
Maj. Kearsley presented several accounts for repairs,
etc., which were referred to a Special Committee consisting of Messrs. Duffield, Crane, and Wing, with instructions,
to report at the present meeting.
Mr. Duffield presented the report of the Faculty as follows, which was read and ordered to be entered:
University of Michigan,
August 2nd, I845.
The Faculty present to the Board of Regents the following
members of the Senior Class of the present year as worthy candidates for the degree of Bachelor of Arts, and recommend their
admission to the same, to wit:
Charles Alexander Clark, of Monroe, Mich.
Judson Dwight Collins, of Lyndon, Washtenaw Co., Mich.
Thomas Barnes Cumming, of Grand Rapids, Mich.
Edmund Fish, of Bloomfield, Oakland Co., Mich.
Merchant Huxford Goodrich, of Ann Arbor, Mich.
Edwin Apollo Lawrence, of Monroe, Mich.
John MacKay, of Calais, Maine.
Fletcher Osceola Marsh, of Kalamazoo, Mich.
George Edgar Parmelee, of Ann Arbor, Mich.
George Washington Pray, of Superior, Washtenaw Co., Mich,
Paul Wideman Huntington Rawles, of Kalamazoo, Mich.
(Signed) G1o. P. WILLIAMS,
Prof. of Mathematics.
ANDREW TEN BROOK,
Prof. of Int. and Moral PhiI.
BURRITT A. SMITH, Tutor'.
Mr. Duffield offered the following resolution, viz.
Resolved, That the Faculty of the University of Michigan be'
and hereby are authorized and required to adimt to the first degree
of Bachelor of Arts the young gentlemen who are recommended for



-4 UGUCIST MEETING, 1845


3I7


the same in the above report of the Faculty, and to deliver to them
each and severally a diploma certifying the facts, and that the
Secretary be directed to issue and forward to the Faculty the mandamus of the Board to that effect.
On motion of the same, it was laid on the table until the
accounts of the candidates for degrees should be examined
by the Executive Committee.
Governor Barry appeared and took the Chair.
Maj. Kearsley presented reports from    the Branches
which were read and ordered to be filed.
The resignation of B. L. Baxter1 as Principal of the
Branch at Tecumseh was read and accepted.
On motion of Mr. Allen, the subject of filling the vacancy caused by the resignation of Mr. Baxter was referred
to the Committee on Branches, with instructions to report
at this meeting.
Maj. Kearsley presented the application of Charles A.
Clark to be Principal of the Branch at Monroe, and Edmund
Fish for the Branch at Pontiac, which were referred to the
same Committee, with like instructions.
Maj. Kearsley, from the Committee on Diplomas, presented the claim of William F. Wilson, which was allowed
at $5; also, a communication from C. W. Fitch, relative to
an error in the printed report of the Board of Visitors,
which was read and ordered to be filed.
Mr. Duffield, from  the Committee on Professorships,
presented certain letters and recommendations of Daniel D.
AW\hedon and H. J. Clark, as candidates for the Professorship of Logic, Rhetoric, and the Philosophy of History. A
letter from Jonathan Lamb on the same subject was read.
On motion of Mr. Wing, they were laid on the table.
The Executive Committee, by Mr. Allen, reported that
the Senior Class had paid all their dues, whereupon Mr. Duffield called up the resolution relative to conferring degrees
upon them, which was carried.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the following preamble
and resolution wvere adopted:
WHEREAS, Information has been given to this Board that the
Board of Education of the City of Detroit have not fullv complied
with the conditions on which the Branch University Building was
placed at their disposal, therefore,
1Afterwards Regent of the University, I858-I864.




318


A IUGLUST iIIJEETING, 1845


Resolved, That the control of the building be and hereby is
given to the Committee on Branches, with a view to the promotion
of the interests of Education, and their doings to be reported to
this Board.
Maj, Kearsley presented a communication       from   Dr.
Douglass, Assistant Professor of Chemistry, recommendingthe purchase of Chemical Apparatus, etc., and the obtaining
of a galvanic battery..
On motion, the sum    of $30 was appropriated for the
purchase of Chemical Apparatus, etc., by the Executive
Committee.
On motion,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to procure a galvanic battery for the use of the University.
Maj. Kearsley offered the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the family of the late Professor Whiting be
authorized to occupy the building in which they now reside, until
the commencement of the third term now next ensuing, free from
rent or other charges.
Maj. Kearsley called the attention of the Board to the
following subjects:
I. A provision authorizing the Faculty to put three students
in one room.   Referred to Executive Committee, with instructions to report at this meeting.
2. A provision relative to examinations of the Senior Class.
Laid on the table.
3. A provision relative to obtaining a burying ground for
the University. Referred to Messrs. Felch, Mundy, and Allen, with
power.
4. A provision relative to the Library and the charge of it.
Referred to the Committee on Library, to report at this meeting.
5. Appointment of Principals of Branches. Referred to Committee on Branches with like instructions.
6. An expression of the Board relative to the decease of Professor Whiting. Referred to Committee on Professorships.
7. An appropriation to procure a suitable monument to the
late Professor Whiting. Referred to the Executive Committee to
be appointed under the new rules, with power.
Mr. Duffield, on behalf of the Special Committee to
examine certain accounts, reported back the same and moved
that those relative to repairs in the University Building be
referred to the Executive Committee. Adopted.
Those relative to the buildings, etc., of Professor Whiting were laid on the table.




AUGUST;MlEETING, 1845


3r'9


An account for room-rent of a monitor which had been
paid by the Janitor, was allowed with the proviso that the
same should not be considered a precedent, the Board considering that such services if performed should be merely
honorary.
Mr. Allen moved to take up the printed report of the
Committee on Professorships. On motion of Mr. Duffield,
the consideration of it was made the order of this evening.
Maj. Kearsley moved that the announcement of a Valedictory Address at Commencement is regarded as an infringement of the rules. On motion of Mr. Duffield it was
referred to a Special Committee consisting of Messrs. Duffield, Kearsley, and Felch to communicate with the Faculty
on the subject.
The Board then took a recess until 7:30 o'clock, P. M.
August 5th, I845, 7:30 o'clock, P. IM.
The Board met pursuant to adjournment.
The Special Committee on a Valedictory presented a report through Mr. Duffield recommending that the Board
take -no action toward changing the order of Commencenent Exercises.
Mr. Wing moved to take up the appointment of a Professor of Logic, etc., but made way for Mr. Allen who made
the following report on behalf of the Executive Committee:
The Executive Committee report to the Board of Regents that
they have to communicate the sad intelligence that the Professorship of the Greek and Latin Languages has become vacant by the
death of Professor J. Whiting. His place has been filled by the
joint labors of the other members of the Faculty during the remaining part of the term. The Committee did not think it expedient to
call a special meeting of the Board in view of the proximity of the
present meeting. The matter is herein referred to the Board for
their action.
M. ALLEN, Chairman pro teoip/orc.
Ann Arbor, Aug. 5th, I845.
Mr. Wing then renewed his motion which was carried.
AMr. Duffield presented a report from the Committee on
Professorships recommending Rev. Daniel D. Whedon as
Professor of Logic, Rhetoric, and the Philosophy of History.




320.4 UGUST' AIMEETIN;G, I845


On motion of Mr. Wing,
Resolved, That Daniel D. Whedon be and he is hereby appointed Professor of Logic, Rhetoric, and the Philosophy of History in the University of Michigan.
Maj. Kearsley, from    the Committee on Branches, presented the following report:
The Committee on Branches to whom were referred the applications of Daniel B. Green, Fletcher 0. Marsh, iCharles A.
Clark, and Edmund Fish, for appointments as Principals of
Branches, report, that having considered the several applications
they recommend that the following appointments be made by the
Board:
Edmund Fish, as Principal of the Branch at Pontiac.
Charles A. Clark, as Principal of the Branch at Monroe.
Fletcher 0. Marsh, as Principal of the Branch at Tecumseh.
Provided, however, that no appropriation of money be implied
in making said appointments, beyond that now authorized.
The report was adopted and the appointments recommended therein were made, subject to said proviso.
On motion,
Resolved, That in making the above appointments the Board
feel that it is proper, when applications are made by graduates of
the University recommended by the Faculty, to give the preference
to those who have incurred the expense and spent the time necessary in pursuing a regular course of collegiate study with us.
The Executive Committee, through Mr. Allen presented
the following report:
The Executive Committee to whom was referred the matter
of authorizing the Faculty to allow three students to occupy one
room, report the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Faculty be instructed to allow three students in each room, beginning with the lowest class and extending
to the higher classes as far as the necessity of the case may require.
M. ALLEN, Chairman pro temp orC.
The resolution as reported was adopted.
Major Kearsley read a letter from the Treasurer of the
University in relation to the finances which was ordered to
be filed as a report of the Finance Committee.
Mr. Duffield, from the Committee on Professorships reported the following resolutions, which were adopted:
Resolved, That the Board of Regents are deeply affected by the
recent dispensation of Providence which has removed by death the
Rev. Joseph Whiting, late Professor of Languages in the University of Michigan. This event having occurred on the 20th ultimo.




AUGUST MEETING, 18 45


321


after a few days illness, by a violent attack of disease suddenly depriving us so shortly before the Commencement of his valuable
services, has produced as much sadness in the minds of the Regents as gloom on the part of the Faculty and students. Professor Whiting having been from the very commencement of the labors of this Board associated with us in our enterprise as Principal of a flourishing Branch, and having afterwards been selected
as one of the first who were called to aid in the organization of the
University proper, having participated largely in the cares, anxieties, and labors incident to the first years of the University, having
shown his fidelity and devotion to its interests and his peculiar
qualifications as well for the counsel and government of youth as
for their instruction in Classical Science, and having endeared himself to us individually by his many amiable properties and virtues
as a citizen, a Christian, a minister of religion, and a Professor in
the University, we feel that in his death we have met with a very
great and serious loss. While we mourn for our own loss, and
that of the friends of Literature and Science, and the community
at large, we truly sympathise with his bereaved and afflicted, widow
and family to whom his death has been an irreparable calamity.
Resolved, That the Secretary be directed to transmit a copy of
the above resolution to Mrs. Whiting, and also to the editors of
the papers in this village and in Detroit.
On motion of Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That the Committee appointed to take charge of the
University Grounds be instructed to have their contract with the
Janitor reduced to writing, and their plan arranged before the
ground shall be seeded this fall.
Maj. Kearsley moved that the Board proceed to the
reading and amendment of the Report of the Committee on
Professorships of April 2d, I845. Carried.
The first clause of the Resolution under the first head,
entitled, "A plan to prevent frequent meetings of the Board
of Regents," was amended by adding after the words, "Annual Meeting," the following:
"Special meetings of the Board may be called by the
President, when it shall be thought necessary by the Executive Committee, by giving at least ten days previous notice thereof."
The clause enumerating the duties of the Committee on
Branches was amended by adding at the end thereof the following words:
"And fill any vacancy that may occur in their number
until the next meeting of the Board."
The clause enumerating the powers and duties of the
Executive Committee was amended as follows:
After the words, "appoint a Tutor," insert, "Librarian."




322


34 UG UST fil E.E IYTG, I845


Instead of, "give orders on the Treasurer," insert, "procure warrants on the Treasurer."
At the end of the clause, "and who shall annually make a
full and exact report of their doings, at the Annual Meeting, to the Board of Regents," add, "and also prepare a
report to 'be submitted to the Superintendent of Public Instruction."
A proposition to insert after the provision, "A faithful
record of their proceedings shall be kept," the words, "by
the Secretary of the Board," was carried by yeas and nays
as follows:
Yeas: Barry, Fitch, Crane, Kearsley, Duffield, Wing. 6.
Nays: Felch, Fletcher, Allen, Mundy. Lane. 5.
At the end of the sentence commencing, "In case of the
death of a Professor," strike out all after the words, "a
meeting of the Board," down to and including, "as speedily
as convenient."
The second head was amended as follows:
By striking out the word, "week," in the fourth subdivision and inserting in lieu thereof the words, "fourth Wednesday next."
The third head was amended as follows:
In subdivision three, instead of the words, "having inserted the name of each graduate," read "having caused
the name of each graduate to be inserted."
The Report as amended was then adopted.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, a special Committee, consisting
of Messrs. Duffield, Allen, and Goodwin was appointed to procure
such information and make such nomination and report the same
to the Board at their next meeting, as may enable them to fill the
vacancy caused by the death of Professor Whiting.
On motion,
Resolved, That when this session of the Board is finally adjourned, the Board shall adjourn to meet in the Supreme Court
Room in the City of Detroit on Tuesday, the 30th day of September next at 7 o'clock P. M.
On motion,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee make their Annual
Report at the next meeting of the Board.
The Committee on Library reported that they were not
aware of anything requiring alteration in the Library De



4 UG UST MliEETIN G, 1845


323
"" 2"


partment, except that there was no catalogue and the books
required labelling, and recommended that a catalogue'should
be prepared and the books be numbered and labelled.
On motion of Mr. Wing, the following preamble and
resolutions were adopted:
WHERV;AS, In the opinion of the Board it will best consist with
the convenience of the Institution that the Library should be under
the immediate supervision of one of the Professors, therefore:
Resolved, That henceforth the Library be placed in charge of
the Professor of Natural Philosophy and Mathematics, and that he
be authorized to employ an assistant, to take charge of the Library
and label the books, at a compensation not exceeding $30.
Resolved, That the Secretary furnish the late Librarian and
Professor Williams with copies of the foregoing.
Messrs. Duffield, Goodwin, and Allen were appointed a
Committee to inform Mr. Whedon of his election as a Professor in the University.
The Chairman then announced the following standing
Committees for the ensuing year:
Committee on Branches: Messrs. Mundy, Crane, Wing.
Executive Committee: Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher, Lane, Fitch,
Duffield, Mundy.
Finance Committee: Messrs. Owen, Pitcher. Alien.
Examining Committee:   Messrs. Duffield, Kearsley, Fletcher,
Wing, Allen.
Major Kearsley asked leave to be excused from acting
as Chairman of the Executive Committee, which was refused.
On motion,
Resolved, That inasmuch as the By-Laws in future provide for
the appointment of Tutors for two years, the present Tutor be continued in office until the expiration of two years from the time of
his original appointment, and that he receive for the ensuing year a
salary of $400.
The Board then adjourned to meet tomorrow morning
at 8 o'clock.
Ann Arbor, August 6th, I845.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: as yesterday.
On motion of Major Kearsley, the Executive Committee were instructed to publish the amended report of the
Committee on Professorships.
M/essrs. Duffield and Wing were added to the Committee
on University Grounds.




324


SEPTElMBER MEETING, 1845


On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the Committee on Finance
were ihstructed to report at the next meeting of the Board.
The Executive Committee were authorized in their discretion to procure a well to be dug for the use of the University.
Judson D. Collins was appointed Principal of the Branch
at Niles.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That the Board authorize the payment of the necessary expenses of the Examining and Executive Committees. in attending the examinations and other necessary meetings.
The Board then adjourned to the Presbyterian Church
to attend the Commencement Exercises, at the close of
which the degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on the
several gentlemen recommended for the same by the Faculty, and diplomas granted, signed by the Regents and Faculty and attested by the Secretary under the seal of the
Corporation.
The Board then adjourned to meet in the Supreme Court
Room in the City of Detroit on Tuesday, September 30th,
at 7 P. M.
SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1845.
Supreme Court Room, Detroit,
September 30, I845, 7 P. MI.
Board met pursuant to adjournment.
Present: Messrs. Duffield, Goodwin, Lane, Manning,
Pitcher, Kearsley, Mundy.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Mr. Mundy was called to the
Chair.
The Minutes of the last meeting were read and approved.
A letter was read from the Rev. D. D. Whedon accepting the appointment of Professor in the University.
A letter was read from Sherman & Smith in regard to
engraving diplomas.
MIaj. Kearsley presented a letter from Professor Ten
Brook in relation to certain accounts of the University.
Maj. Kearsley, in behalf of the Executive Committee re



SEPTEMrBER IMEETING, I845


325


ported that it is inexpedient in the opinion of this Committee
that the well authorized to be dug under their direction
should be made: at present. The report was adopted.
Mr. Duffield read a letter from Professor Ten Brook in
relation to the arrangement of the Library and compensation
of the Assistant Librarian. On motion of Chancellor Manning it was referred to the Executive Committee with power to act in their discretion, and to expend a sum not exceeding $50.
The Executive Committee, through Mr. Duffield, presented certain plans for a monument to Professor Whiting.
On motion of Major Kearsley, the following resolution
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be instructed to ascertain the present condition of the Library and if need be to correspond with Rev. iHenry Colclazer, late Librarian, relative thereto.
Mr. Mundy, from the Committee on Cemetery, made the
following report:
The Select Committee to whom was referred the subject of
procuring a piece of ground suitable for a cemetery, report:
That the public burying ground in the vicinity of the University is already so occupied that a piece of ground of sufficient extent cannot be procured there. There is on the west side of this
public burying ground, a private one containing two acres, a quarter of which the proprietors will dispose of to the University for
$250, the purchase money to be expended by them in the erection
of a fence around the whole, or the Board of Regents to expend
that amount in building such a fence as the proprietors propose to
build, the Board undertaking its entire erection.
'The Committee content themselves with this simple statement
of facts, suggesting to the Board for its consideration the propriety
of setting off somewhere upon the University Grounds a spot suitable for this purpose.
Sept. 30th, I845.                  A. FErCH, Chairman.
Mr. Mundy offered the following resolution, which was
adopted:
Resolved, That one hundred and fifty feet square of land midway between a line running north and south, across the University
Grounds between the Professors' Houses and the east side of the
Grounds and midway between the north and south lines of the
Grounds be set apart for a cemetery for the University.
Maj. Kearsley offered the following resolution, which
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to put




326


SEPTEPMlIBER MEETING, 1845


up a monument to Professor Whiting at an expense not to exceed
$Ioo, and with the assent of Mrs. Whiting cause his body to be
removed to the University Burying Ground.
MIr. Duffield, from the Committee on Professorships presented letters recommending several individuals to fill the
vacant Professorship.
On motion of -Mr. Duffield,
Resolved, That Professor John Holmes Agnew be appointed
Professor of the Greek and Latin Languages in the University of
Michigan.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, the same Committee were directed to notify Mr. Agnew of his election.
M/ajor Kearsley presented an account of Professor Sager
of $Ioo for services at the University, which was allowed
and a warrant ordered to be issued for the same.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley, the following resolution
was adopted:
Resolved, That the services of the Professor of Chemistry,
Mineralogy, and Geology be required uninterruptedly for the ensuing year, and that he also for the present perform the duties of the
Professor of Zoology and Botany, and that the Executive Committee be authorized to make such provision as they shall think proper
in case Dr. Houghton shall not be able to discharge the duties of
those Professorships, until the next meeting of the Board.
Maj. Kearsley presented the Annual Report on Finance,
as follows, which was adopted:
Report on Finantce.
Agreeably to the Report of the Finance Committee embracing the period ending Nov. 30th, I844, there were
then unpaid warrants outstanding amounting to.....  $54I.64
Add amount of warrants drawn upon the Treasurer of the
University from Dec. Ist, I844 to August 3Ist, 1845,
inclusive...................................   3,551.30
$4,092.94
Deduct warrants paid by Treasurer during period.......  2,646.67
Leaves amount of warrants outstanding, unpaid.......... $I,446.27
To meet the above indebtedness, the resources are as
follows:
Balance due per report of State Treasurer, marked "A"  $535.88
Add the following items, viz.
Due from State Treasury, Oct. Ist, 1845.................  668.22
Estimated receipts of interest, and 25 per cent forfeiture,
which must be paid prior to Oct. Ist, 1845, by purchasers of University Lands, upon installments.....  2,000.00
From   $3,204.Io
Take above $I,446.27




SEPTEtMBER MEETINGA, 1845


327


1845, Oct. ist. There will be a balance in the Treasury
of the University after payment of all warrants unpaid and outstanding, August 3Ist, 1845............. $1,757.83
Special Contingent Fund, to wit:
The receipts of the Janitor, (under a resolution of the
Board dated August I2th, 1844,) for room-rent from
students amount to..........................   307.50
Payments by Janitor for same period, to wit:
His salary for one year at $20 per month......  $240.00
Add authorized disbursements of Janitor for
wood and repairs on Buildings, etc........  34.30    274.30


Balance in hands of P. Kelly, Janitor.........            33.20
In justice to Mr. Kelly it is proper to remark that there are
items of his account suspended for want of proper vouchers, which
will nearly cover the above balance of $33.20.
August 3Ist, 1845.        J. KxARSLtY, Chairman
Executive Committee.
(A)
University Interest Fund, In account with the Treasurer of the
State of Michigan.
Dr.
1844
Dec.  I    To  balance  account...........................  $172.34
Dec. 31 To Cash.....................................     341.64
I845


Apr. 30
May 31
June 30
Aug. 30


1845
Sept. I
1845
Jan. I
Feb. 28
Mar. 3 
Apr. i
Apr. 30
May   I
June 30
June 30


To  Cash....................................   3,o31.82
To Cash.....................................      1,870.80
To  Cash.....................................    3,o37.57
To Cash.....................................       338.73
Balance......................................      535.78
$9,328.78
To balance account..........................      $535.88
Cr.
By Sinking Fund.............................      $519.90
By Cash.....................................      560.00
By Cash.....................................       973.70
By Sinking Fund..............................   66.oo
By Cash.....................................        201.52
By Cash.....................................      5,I48.13
By Cash.....................................       700.00
By Sinking Fund......6.....................        619.53
$9,328.78
r_ _         _r 


/   T'  a


( Vlde page 334, tor revision ot above report.)
I certify the above to be a copy of the books of the Treasurer
of the State of Michigan, showing all receipts and disbursements
by him to or from the University Interest Fund from    1st Dec..
1844, to August 30th, 1845.
A. T. HALL,
Deputy State Treasurer.




328


SEPTEL1MBER MEETING, 1845


(B)
University-of Michigan in account with John J.
I8AK


Dec. 31


By cash from  State Treasury.........
To University warrants paid  No. 324
To University warrants paid  No. 367
To University warrants paid  No. 369
To University warrants paid  No. 371
To University warrants paid  No. 378
To University warrants paid  No. 379


Adam, Treasurer.
Dr.      Cr.
$341.64
$30.00
66.66
66.66
66.66
66.66
15.00
30.00
3,031.82
540.00
2,49I.82


1845


Apr. 8 To University warrants paid No. 375
Apr. 22  By Cash from    State Treasury.......
To paid interest for Jan., I845, on IS
coupons University Stock..........
To remitted to New York to meet 82
coupons University Stock.........
May   2  By cash from Prof. Williams, entrance
fees $So, catalogues sold $15.50.....
To paid warrant No. 404............
May   6  By cash from State Treasury.........
To paid warrant No. 38I............
To paid warrant No. 382............
To paid warrant No. 383............
To paid, warrant No. 384............
To paid warrant No. 385............
To paid warrant No. 387.........
To paid warrant No. 388............
To paid warrant No. 389............
To paid warrant No. 390............
To paid warrant No. 392............
To paid warrant No. 393............
To warrant paid   No. 397............
To paid warrant No. 400............
To paid warrant No. 401............
To paid warrant No. 402............
May 28 By Cash from State Treasury.........
To paid warrant No. 386............
To paid warrant No. 391............
To paid warrant No. 394............
To paid warrant No. 399............
To paid warrant No. 403..........
By paid warrant No. 405............
June 26  By cash from State Treasury........
To cash remitted to New York to pay
July interest on University Stock..
Aug. 30  By cash from State Treasury........
To paid warrant No. 396............
To paid warrant No. 406............
To paid warrant No. 407............
To paid warrant No. 409............
To paid warrant No. 412............
To paid warrant No. 413............
To paid warrant No. 414............
To paid warrant No. 416............
To paid warrant No. 418............


95.50
66.67
208.33
233.33
I00.00
I33.33
5.90
6.oo
12.00
5.I8
102.50
112.50
I4.50
100.00
I64.83
233.33
66.66
66.67
34.08
5.oo
133.33
66.66


95.50
1,498.40
372.40
3,037.57


3,037.57
338.73
52.17
66.66
75.00
84.40
7.00
3I.oo
8.50
9.oo
5.oo
$8,716.06 $8,7i6.oo




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1845




No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.
No.


University Warrants outstanding Sept. Ist, I845.
373.................................................
395................................................
398...............................................
408................................................
41...............................................
411................................................
415................................................
417................................................
4Io...............................................
420...............................................
421................................................
422................................................
423................................................
424................................................


329
$200.00
83.22
66.66
66.66
66.66
233.33
7.50
66.66
17.00
233.33
I00.00
66.67
5.25
233.33
$I,446.27


(C)
Statement of Secretary of Board of Regents of expenditures,
etc., since November 30th, I844.
Since November 30th, 1844, the following warrants have been
issued on audited accounts upon the Treasurer of the University
for the purposes expressed in said warrants:
I844


Dec. io  Warrant No. 381 in favor of J. E. Chaplin, salary
as Principal of W7hite Pigeon Branch, I term
to  November  2ist,  I844.....................
Dec. 23 Warrant No. 382 in favor of G. P. Williams, salary as Professor in University, term ending
December  24th,  I844........................
Dec. 23  Warrant No. 383 in favor of A. Ten Brook, salary as Professor in University, term ending
December 24th, I844........................
Dec. 23 Warrant No. 384 in favor of B. A. Smith, salary as Tutor, term ending December 24th, 1844
Dec. 28 Warrant No. 385 in favor of Joseph Whiting, salary as Professor in University, Aug. i5th to
Dec. i5th, 1844, deducting advance of $oo00 in
Septem ber,  I844............................
Dec. 30 Warrant No. 386 in favor of B. L. Baxter, salary as Principal of Tecumseh Branch, term
ending December 6th, I844..................
I845
Jan. o0 Warrant No. 387 in favor of H. Chubb for lumber furnished University Buildings..........
Jan. Io  Warrant No. 388 in favor of M. Allen for at

$66.67
233.33
233.33
I00.00
I33.33
66.66
5.90
6.oo
I2.00
5.I8
66.67


Jan.
Jan.
Feb.


tending meetings of Board, $5, and postage,
$I..........................................
W3 Warrant No. 389 in favor of Detroit Iron Co. for
stove  for  University........................
21 Warrant No. 390 in favor of Richard Kearns for
blacksmith work at University..............
I Warrant No. 39I in favor of R. Nutting, salary
as Principal of Romeo Branch, term    ending
Novem ber,  1844............................




0o3


SEPTEMBER MEETING, I845


Feb. I5 Warrant No. 392 in favor of John J. Adam for
premium on insurance paid John Palmer......    I02.50
Feb. I5 Warrant No. 393 in favor of John J. Adam for
premium on insurance paid Mason Palmer....     112.50
Feb. I4 Warrant No. 394 in favor of Harsha & Willcox
for  printing,  etc............................  34.08
Mar. 31  Warrant No. 395 in favor of C. Eberbach $15.28
and D. Houghton, $67.94 as per accounts on
file.......................................  83.22
Apr. 8 Warrant No. 396 in favor of R. Nutting which
with No. 397 is for his salary as Principal of
Romeo Branch to March 29th, I845...........     52.17
Apr. 8 Warrant No. 397 in favor of R. Nutting for balance of salary to March 29th, I845, not paid
by  warrant  No. 396.........................  14.50
Apr. o1    Warrant No. 398 in favor of B. L. Baxter, salary as Principal of Tecumseh Branch to
M arch  28th,  1845...........................  66.66
Apr. 17 Warrant No. 399 in favor of Rev. M. Allen, expenses attending two meetings of University
R egents....................................   5.00
Apr. iS  Warrant No. 400 in favor of B. A. Smith, salary as Tutor to 'April I6th, I845.............  10000
Apr. 21 Warrant No. 401 in favor of G. P. Williams, salary as Professor, term ending April i6th, I845  I64.83
Apr. I8 Warrant No. 402 in favor of A. Ten Brook, salary as Professor, term ending April I6th, 1845  233.33
Apr. 18 Warrant No. 403 in favor of Joseph Whiting, salary as Professor in full for term ending April
i6th, I845, after deducting $I00 advanced in
Sept.  I844................................  133.33
May 2 Warrant No. 404 in favor of G. P. Williams, salary as Professor to April i6th, I845..........  95.50
AMay I0 Warrant No. 405 in favor of James A. B. Stone,
salary as Principal of Kalamazoo Branch to
Nov. 30th, 1844........................       66.66
May Io Warrant No. 406 in favor of J. A. B. Stone, salary as Principal of Kalamazoo Branch to April
i6th,  I845..................................  66.66
June 24 Warrant No. 407 in favor of A. Ten Eyck, salary
*as Secretary of Board to June 24th, I845.....  75.00
July I6 Warrant No. 408 in favor of J. E. Chaplin, salary
as Principal of White Pigeon Branch, term
commencing November 22d, 1844...........       66.66
JulyA 23 Warrant No. 409 in favor of H. Colclazer, salary
as Librarian from  Sept. i2th, I844, to July
I2th,  I845, and  postage......................  84.40
July 25 Warrant No. 410 in favor of James A. B. Stone,
salary as Principal Kalamazoo Branch, term
ending  July  I2th,  1845......................  66.66
July 28 Warrant No. 4II in favor of G. P. Williams,
salary as Professor, term  ending Aug. 6th,
1845........................................  233.33
Aug. 4 Warrant No. 412 in favor of Harsha & Willcox,
for  printing  Report..........................  7.00




SEPTEMlBER MEETING, 845


33I


Aug. 6 Warrant No. 413 in favor of A. M. Fitch for
traveling expenses, etc......................  3I.00
Aug. 6 Warrant No. 414 in favor of E. Crane expenses
in attending meeting of the Board...........  8.50
Aug. 6 Warrant No. 415 in favor of Minot T. Lane,
traveling expenses as Regent................   7.50
Aug. 6 Warrant No. 4I6 in favor of George Duffield
traveling expenses as Regent................  9.0o
Aug. 9 Warrant No. 417 in favor of B. L. Baxter, salary as Principal of Tecumseh Branch, term
ending July I th, 1845......................  66.66
Aug. II Warrant No. 418 in favor of W. F. Wilson for
preparing diploma..........................   5.00
Aug. II Warrant No. 419 in favor of J. Kearsley expenses as Regent, August I844 & 1845........  17.00
Aug. ii Warrant No. 420 in favor of A. Ten Brook, salary as Professor, term ending August 6th, I845  233.33
Aug. II Warrant No. 421 in favor of B. A. Smith, Tutor,
salary for term ending Aug. 6th, I845........  oo.oo
Aug. 1o  Warrant No. 422 in favor of R. Nutting, salary
as Principal of Romeo Branch, term  ending
July   I4th,  1845.............................  66.67
Aug. 29 Warrant No. 423 in favor of James V. Campbell,
expenses and disbursements for Board of Regents  in  August,  1845..................... 5.25
Aug. 29 Warrant No. 424 in favor of Harriet L. Whiting
and H. Becker administrators of J. WVhiting,
deceased, for his 'salary as Professor, term
commencing May i5th, 1845.................  233.33
$3,576.30
From warrant No. 382 should be deducted $25,
the whole amount paid on the same having
been $208.33, the residue after deducting said
amount for dues to the Board by their order   25.00
Leaving  amount  of.............................$3,551.30
JAMIES V. CAMPBELL,
Secretary ad interiom.
On motion of Chancellor Manning,
Resolved, That the house occupied by the late Professor Whiting be assigned to Professor Agnew, and that he be allowed at the
rate per year heretofore paid for the house assigned to the Professor of Geology during the time the same is hereafter occupied by
Mrs. Whiting under the resolution of this Board heretofore passed.
Mr. Duffield submitted the following report:
To the Superilftecldenlt of Public Ilstrulctiout:
The Board of Regents in presenting their Eighth Annual Report, have occasion to congratulate themselves and the friends of
Literature and Science in our State in view of the continued and
increased prosperity of the University whose interests have been by




332


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1845


Law confided to their management. Since the last Annual Report,
the Senior class has graduated and the following young gentlemen
have been admitted to the first degree of Bachelor of Arts, viz.
Charles A. Clark, of Monroe, Mich.
Judson P. Collins, of Lyndon, Washtenaw Co., Mich.
Thomas E. Cumming, of Grand Rapids, Mich.
Edmund Fish, of Bloomfield, Oakland Co., Mich.
Merchant H. Goodrich, of Ann Arbor, Mich.
Edwin A. Lawrence, of Monroe, Mich.
John MacKay, of Calais, Maine.
Fletcher O. Marsh, of Kalamazoo, Mich.
George E. Parmelee, of Ann Arbor, Mich.
George W. Pray, of Superior, Washtenaw Co., Mich.
Paul W. H. Rawles, of Kalamazoo, Mich.
The report of the Examining Committee and the recommendation of the Faculty together with the exercises of the Commencement all bore favorable testimony to their scholarship. From this
specimen of the first fruits we may safely and justly anticipate the
future popularity, usefulness, and prosperity of the University.
The Board deeply regret that a shade of gloom was thrown
over the occasion of the Commencement by the death of the Rev.
Joseph Whiting, Professor of Languages, which occurred but a
short time before. In the death of Professor Whiting, the University has sustained a severe loss. He had been with us from the
beginning, had been thoroughly acquainted with- the history, cares,
interests, and condition of the University, participated with earnest
and zealous effort in the Board's desire to promote the usefulness
of the Institution, and was particularly qualified for his station,
not only by his classical attainments and aptness to teach, but by
his urbanity and gentleness of manners, by his knowledge of character, and other properties which especially fitted him to act the
part of a governor and counsellor of youth. He was taken away
most unexpectedly in the midst of his usefulness and has left a
large family in circumstances and years peculiarly requiring a father's care. The duties of Professor Whiting's Chair were promptly
discharged by the other Professors and Tutor during the short
interval that passed from his death till the Commencement.
There has been a fourth Professor appointed by the Board,
viz. the Rev. D. D. Whedon, who has accepted the appointment and
is now discharging his duties in the University as Professor of
Logic, Rhetoric, and the Philosophy of History.
The vacancy occasioned by the death of Professor Whiting in
the Professorship of the Latin and Greek Languages will be filled
at the meeting of the Board to be held: September 30th, I845.
This Report is brought down to August 3ist, as are also the
accompanying reports of the various standing Committees entrusted
with particular duties. Heretofore the report was brought down
to the latest period in December at which the Board met previously
to the meeting of the Legislature, but the Board have found it convenient and desirable for the purpose of preventing unneccssary
expense to have but one Annual Meeting of the Regents to be held
at the time of Commencement, to which date the standing Committees entrusted with duties to be performed during the adjournment of the Board are instructed to report. This will explain the
reports hereto appended to which reference is made for a full and
detailed view of the condition of the University. From the report




SEPTEMBER        MIEETING, 1845              333
of the Executive Committee on Finance, it appears that the permanent debt of the Board has been reduced during the past year to
the amount of $43,225.86, and that the total amount of receipts during the past year has been.......... and of expenditures..........
leaving  a balance  of...........
The Committees are appointed at the Annual Meeting, and the
names of the gentlemnen composing the several Committees for the
current year are hereto also appended, viz.
Committee on Branches: Messrs. Mundy, Crane, Wing.
Executive Committee: Messrs. Kearsley, Pitcher, Lane, Fitch,
Duffield, Mundy.
Committee on Finances: Messrs. Owen, Pitcher, Allen.
Examining Committee:   Messrs. Duffield, Kearsley, Fletcher,
Wing, Allen.
All which is respectfully submitted.
By order of the Board.
Dr. Pitcher submitted the following:
Report of the Commlittee oni Branches.
No additions have been made to the number of Branches since
the date of our last Annual Report. The number of Branches in
operation at that period and the number of pupils in attendance
upon each were as follows:
Location           Principal                 No. of Pupils
W hite  Pigeon-Rev. J. E. Chaplin.........................32
Kalamazoo-  J. A. B. Stone............................  86
Romeo-Rufus   Nutting................................  105
Tecumseh-B. L. Baxter.............................. 75
Monroe-Ira Mayhew.............................
The Preparatory Department at Ann Arbor is also continued
under the same supervision and Instructors as heretofore.
The reports of the Principals of the several Branches at the
close of the present collegiate year give the following results.
White Pigeon-Rev. J. E. Chaplin..................... 24 Pupils
Kalamazoo-Rev. J. A. B. Stone....................... 92 Pupils
Romeo-Rev. Rufus Nutting........................... 96 Pupils
Tecumseh-B. L. Baxter (resigned).................... 65 Pupils
Monroe-Ira   Mayhew.............................  Pupils
These Institutions continue to be useful auxiliaries to the parent
University.
Respectfully submitted,
Z. PITCHER, Chairman
Ann Arbor, Aug. 6th, I845.      Committee on Branches.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley an appropriation was made of $60.
in addition to one of $30 heretofore made to purchase Chemical
Apparatus and a galvanic Battery.
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That a copy of the Annual Report be transmitted
tb the Superintendent of Public Instruction as heretofore.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to have
two barns erected for the use of the Professors' Buildings at an
expense not exceeding $50o apiece.




334               APRIL MEETING, 1846
On motion of Maj. Kearsley,
Resolved, That three of the Executive Committee shall be a
quorum to transact business.
The Board then adjourned sine die.
The following statement by the State Treasurer is made in
correction of the one recorded as Schedule "A," which contained
some errors, not discovered until after the report was prepared for
publication.
(A)
University Interest Fund in account with the Treasurer of Michigan.
I844                                                     Dr.
Dec.  I  To   balance....................................  $I72.34.
Dec. 3r  To Cash......................................    341.64
1845
A pr.  30  To  Cash......................................  3,031.82
May 31   To Cash......................................   I,870.80
June 30  To Cash......................................   3,037.57
Aug. 30 To Cash......................................     338.73
Balance  to  new   account........................  503.68
$9,296.58
I845-                                                    Cr.
Jan.  i By Sinking Fund.............................     $5I9.90
Feb.  28  By  Cash.......................................  560.oo
Mar. 31  By Cash.......................................   941.50
Apr. I By Sinking Fund..............................   606.oo
A pr.  30  By  Cash.......................................  201.52
M ay   I  By  Cash......................................  5,I48.I3
June 30  By Cash......................................    70.00
June 30  By Sinking Fund..............................    619.53
$9,296.58
I845
Sept. I By balance of old account....................     503.68
I certify the above to be a copy of the books of the Treasurer
of the State of Michigan as amended by order of D. V. Bell, Commissioner of the State Land Office, an error having occurred in the
credit made by his order, March 31, I845, of $32.40, which accounts
for the difference between the present balance and that of a former
statement furnished the Chairman of the Committee of Finance,
showing all receipts and disbursements by him to or from the University Interest Fund, from  Ist December, 1844, to August 30th,
1845.                               A. T. HALL,
Deputy State Treasurer.
APRIL MEETING, 1846.
Supreme Court Room,
Detroit, Apr. 21st, 1846.
The Board met pursuant to notice at 7:30 o'clock P. 1M.




APRIL 1MEETING, 1846


335
~i*3    r


Governor Alpheus Felch took the Chair and called the
meeting to order.
Present: Messrs. Manning, Kearsley, Duffield, Pitcher,
Farnsworth, Mundy, Austin E. Wing, Lane, Taylor, Allen,
Pilcher, and Owen.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were then read by
the Acting Secretary and approved, and on motion of Maj.
Kearsley, the blanks in the last Annual Report recorded in
this Journal were ordered to be supplied by the Secretary
from the printed report, and the Journal otherwise made to
conform thereto.
Reports were presented from    the Branches at Romeo,
Monroe, Kalamazoo, White Pigeon, read and referred to the
Committee on Branches.
Maj. Kearsley offered the following:
Resolved, That the Secretary be instructed to enroll the names
of Messrs. Charles C. Taylor, Hon. Elon Farnsworth, and Elijah
H. Pilcher, as members of this Board appointed to supply the vacancies occasioned by the expiration of the terms of Messrs. A. M..
Fitch, Elijah Crane, and William A. Fletcher.
Mr. Mundy moved to amend as follows:
That the Secretary make and keep a roll of all the Rlegents
now and hereafter to be appointed and of all officers who may be
appointed by the Board.
The amendment prevailed as a substitute for the resolution of Maj. Kearsley.
The Chairman of the Executive Committee, Maj. Kearslevy then
presented several accounts for repairs, etc., done on the University
Buildings, which had been suspended and moved that they be recommitted to the Executive Committee, who were authorized to allow
and pay them in their discretion.
Also the account of William E. Peters, being a balance of'
$30.48 over the appropriation made for erection of tombstone, etc.
to Professor Whiting. On motion said account was ordered to be
paid.
Also accounts of R. Kearns and others, which on motion of
Mr. Wing were referred to the Executive Committee.
Also the claim of John J. Adam, late Treasurer of the Board,
for compensation as such Treasurer, and moved that the sum of $50
per annum be allowed and paid to Mr. Adam.
Dr. Pitcher moved to amend by inserting $5o for compensation
in full, amendment was accepted by Maj. Kearsley, when, on motion of Mr. Allen, the matter was laid upon the table.
Also the account of S. S. Schoff for printing Catalogue for'
University Library, $59.60 which on motion of Dr. Pitcher. was
allowed and ordered to be paid.




336


APRIL MEETING, 1846


Dr. Pitcher then offered (at the suggestion of the Faculty) the following resolution:
Resolved, That in future the students of the University be required to pay the sum of $i per annum each, and the Professors
the sum of $2 per annum each for the use of the Library. Lost.
Maj. Kearsley also, presented a claim of A. Ten Brook
for stoves furnished by him for his apartments in the University Building.   On motion of Mr. Mundy, it was ordered that the account be audited by the Executive Committee and paid, and that the same allowance be made to the
other Professors if necessary.
The following reports were then submitted: First, by
Mr. Allen, in writing:
Your Committee appointed to lease the vacant Professor's
House and secure the rents arising therefrom would report:
That the house was leased to his Excellency Gov. Felch and
has been occupied by him since the month of October, I843. Your
Committee settled upon rents at $I50 per annum. $300 have been
received in full payment for two years rent expiring October last.
All which is submitted.
Detroit, Apr. 2ist, 1846.        M. ALLEN, Committee.
Maj. Kearsley offered the following resolution:
Resolved, That Professor Whedon be paid the amount of rent
for the house occupied by Gov. Felch which has accrued since Mr.
Whedon's arrival and readiness to assume his post as Professor in
the University. Carried.
On motion of Mr. Allen, the subject was recommitted
with instructions to, collect the amount and pay the same
over to Mr. Whedon.
Mr. Wing, from Committee on Ornamenting University
Grounds, reported verbally, that the Committee had found it impracticable to plant trees last fall, on account of wheat having been
sown on the premises by Mr.Kelly according to previous agreement
with him.
Maj. Kearsley reported the acceptance by J. Holmes Agnew of
his appointment as Professor of Languages and his intention to be
here at the commencement of May Term. Also, on the subject of
the plate for diplomas belonging to the University, and stated that
the same is now in the safe keeping of Rev. George Duffield, Jr.,
of New York. Also on subject of building barns with the proposals submitted and asked instructions. None given.
Mr. Wing asked to be excused from      serving as a member of the Committee on Branches.     On motion he was excused, and Minot T. Lane, Esq., appointed in his place.
Mr. Lane called the attention of the Regents to a va



JPRIL 4IEETIANG, 1846


337


cancy in the Board of Visitors at the Romeo Branch and on
his motion, Mr. John Russell, of Romeo, was appointed to
fill the same.
Dr. Pitcher reminded the Board of a certain claim      of
George P. Marsh for a book furnished the University.
Moved it be referred to, the Executive Committee with instructions to pay the same. So referred.
Maj. Kearsley called the attention of the Board to the
existence of duplicates of certain volumes in the University,
and moved to refer to Messrs. Mundy, Allen, and Taylor.
So referred.
On motion of same also ordered that those gentlemen
correspond with Mr. Colclazer on the subject of certain
books missing from the University.
The following resolutions were then offered by Mr.
Mundy:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be directed to take
charge for the future of the Branch Building at Detroit. Carried.
By Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That so much of the resolution adopted at the last
meeting of the Board concerning the Professorship'of Botany- and
Zoology as relates to Dr. Sager, be rescinded. Carried.
By Mr. -'ilcher,
Resolved, That the appointment of an additional Professor for
the University and the whole subject of Professorships be referred
to a select Committee of three. Carried.
MIessrs. Allen, Duffield, and Pilcher weer appointed such
Committee.
IBy Dr. Pitcher,
Resolved, That a Committee of this Board be authorized to
apply to the Legislature 'for the passage of a law granting to the
Commissioner of the State Land Office power to loan this Board
a sum not exceeding.......... thousand dollars, out of the principal of the Common School'Fund, for the purpose of building another College edifice and Laboratory.
On motion of Mr. Mundy, it was laid upon the table.
By Mr. Farnsworth,
Resolved, That. the Executive Committee be authorized to employ Dr. Sager in the Professorship of Botany and Zoology during
the coming Spring Term.
By Mr. Taylor,
Resolved, That the communication of Maj. Kearsley to' tlie
Senate of Michigan on the subject of University Lands be and the




338


APRIL Ml1EETING, 1846


same is hereby approved as expressive of the sense of the Board
of Regents.
By Maj. Kearsley further,
Resolved, That the President of tile Board transmit a copy of
said resolution to the Presiding Officer of the Senate.
The President stated to the Board that the Senate had
taken some action in relation to certain specimens, whereupon on motion of Mr. Pilcher it was:
Resolved, That the subject be referred to the Executive Committee with power to act as they shall deem expedient.
Mr. Mundy moved to take from the table the resolution
offered by Dr. Pitcher in relation to loan for College Edifice
and Laboratory. Lost.
The following resolution was offered by Dr. Pitcher:
Resolved, That a Committee of three be appointed to confer
with Mrs. Dr. Houghton in relation to certain books. Carried.
Dr. Pitcher, M-aj. Kearsley, and Jno. Owen were appointed such
Committee.
On motion of same, it was,
Resolved, That the Hon. Digby V. Bell, Auditor General of the
State, be and he is hereby appointed Treasurer of the Board.
On motion of M'aj. Kearsley, also,
Resolved, That Eben N. Willcox, now acting Secretary by appointment of the Executive Committee, be and he is hereby appointed Secretary of the Board.
On motion of same,
Resolved, That the Secretary as soon as practicable furnish the
Chairman of each Committee with the names of the members composing the same, and the subjects referred to them.
The President then announced the following appointments, viz.
Hon. Elon Farnsworth to be a member of the Executive
Committee, vice Rev. A. M. Fitch, whose term     as Regent
has expired; Rev. Charles C. Taylor to be a member of the
Examining Committee, vice William, A. Fletcher, term    expired; and Elijah H. Pilcher, vice Elijah Crane, term   expired, to be a member of the Committee on Branches.
On motion of Mr. Farnsworth, the Board adjourned sine
die.
E. N. WILLCOX, Secretary.




A UGUST MlEELTING, 1846


339


ANNUAL MEETING, AUGUST, 1846.
Ann Arbor, Tuesday, August 4th, 1846.
Present: His Excellency Governor F'elch, Justice Whippie, Hon. Edward Mundy, Rev. George Duffield, Rev. Elijah
H. Pilcher, Rev. Charles C. Taylor, Dr. Pitcher, Austin E.
Wing, A. H. Redfield, Rev. Marvin Allen, Mr. Minot T.
Lane.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and alteration ordered in the Committee on Professorships, Mr. Duffield being Chairman instead of Mr. Allen, as recorded.
Ann Arbor, Aug. 4th, 1846.
To the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan.
GENTLEM EN:
The undersigned has been entrusted by Maj. Jonathan Kearsley to present and explain to your Honorable Board a claim for
services rendered as Commissioner to negotiate the sale of the
University Bonds, so called. He therefore respectfully asks that
some time convenient to yourselves may be assigned for the hearing
of said claim when he will appear before you in behalf of Maj.
Kearsley. A short time only will be requisite to put the Board in
possession of all the facts in the case.
Very respectfully,
Your obedient servant,
(Signed) GEo. V. N. LOTHROP.
Mr. Allen moved that it be referred to a Committee of
three.
Messrs. Allen, Duffield, and Whipple were appointed said
Committee.
The following communication from B. A. Smith was
also read:
To the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan.
I am not aware whether or not the term of my Tutorship expires by limitation at the present time. As I do not wish to occupy
the place longer, if the Board consider a resignation necessary they
will please regard this as such.
(Signed) B. A. SMITH.
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, Mr. Smith's resignation was
accepted.
A memorial was presented from the Faculty which the
Secretary was proceeding to read when on motion of Justice




340


A UGUST MEETING, I846


Whipple, it was referred to the Executive Committee to report upon tomorrow.
Dr. Pitcher, from Ithe Special Committee appointed at the last
meeting, reported that owing to the absence of Mrs. Houghton and
H. N. Walker, Esq., nothing had been done on the subject of the
books, minerals, etc., for which the Committee was appointed. He
then moved that it be again referred to the same Committee.' Carried.
Hon. Edward Mundy, Chairman of the Committee on
Branches, then presented the Annual Report of the Committee which was accepted. It will be found with the other
Annual Reports at the conclusion of the Proceedings. (P.
346.)
On motion of Dr. Pitcher, a select Committee of three
was appointed to report upon the expediency of discontinuing the Branches at White Pigeon and Tecumseh. Messrs.
Pitcher, Wing, and Redfield, were appointed such Committee.
On motion of Mr. Wing, they were instructed to report
upon the expediency of discontinuing all the Branches.
The Annual Reports of the Executive and Finance Committees were then read.
Dr. Pitcher moved that all the Annual Reports be referred to the Executive Committee, with instructions to
make up the Annual Report of the Board.
Mr. Duffield, from  the Executive Committee read the
memorial of the Faculty. No action was had thereon.
Mr. Mundy presented the following report of the Faculty and the Rev. Charles Taylor, from the Examining Committee:
Report of the Faculty.
The Faculty of the University of Michigan recommend to the
Board of Regents as proper candidates for admission to the degree of Bachelor of Arts, the following young gentlemen, members of the Senior Class of 1845-6:
George P. Androus, of Ann Arbor.
George L. Becker, of Ann Arbor.
Philander G. Buchanan, of Norwalk, Ohio.
Edwin S. Dunham, of Kalamazoo.
Charles J. Hunt, of Waterford, Mich.
James S. Mitchell, of Greenwich, Ohio.
Anthony Mosher, of Farmington, Mich.
Charles W. Noble, of Monroe, Mich.
William W. Perry, of Ann Arbor.
William W. Phelps, of Pontiac, Mich.
Homer F. Schoff, and,




A UGUST MEETING, 1846


34r


Savillon S. Schoff, of Portland, Mich.
Winfield Smith, of Monroe, Mich.
James M. Walker, of Farmington, Mich.
Adonijah S. Welch, of Chatham, Conn.
Nathaniel West, of Pontiac, Mich.
James 0. Whittemore, of Detroit, Mich.
ANDREW TEN BROOK,
University, Aug. 4th, 1846.   President of the Faculty.
Report of Exalmilning Con mmiittee.
The undersigned, one of the Examining Committee, and the
only one in attendance at the examination of the above named gentlemen, heartily concurs in the above recommendation.
(Signed) CHARLES C. TAYLOR.
On motion of Mr. Duffield, it was,
Resolved, That the Faculty be authorized and requested to confer the degree of Bachelor of Arts upon each and every of the
young gentlemen recommended to receive the same in the report
of the Faculty, and that the Secretary transmit to their President,
a copy of this resolution.
Mr. Mundy presented the following communication:
To the Regents of the University of Michiganl:
We recommend -for appointment to Branches the following
young gentlemen, members of the present Senior Class:
James S. Mitchell, of Greenwich, Ohio.
Anthony Mosher, of Farmington, Mich.
Adonijah S. Welch, of Chatham, Conn.
We also recommend for the same appointment, P. W. H.
Rawles, a graduate of the Institution.
(Signed) Gro. P. WILIrxAIS.
On motion, the communication was referred to the Committee on Branches.
Mr. Duffield, from the Executive Committee, to whom
was referred the memorial of the Faculty, submitted the following, report, which was accepted:
The Executive Committee to whom was referred the petition
and memorial of the Faculty, report that the petition is in accordance with the resolution adopted by this Board at the present meeting requiring the presentation of an Annual Report from the Faculty, and recommend that it be granted. They also present the following resolutions as a rule to be adopted by the Board establishing a channel of Communication by the Faculty with this Board, viz.
Resolved, That the Faculty be and are hereby directed to present a full report at the Annual Meeting of the Board touching the
general condition, interests, and prospects of the University, and
whatever facts may be known to them or which may have transpired
during the year that call in their views for the action of the Board.
Resolved, That the established channel of communication by
the.Faculty with the Board be written documents sanctioned bv a
majority of the Faculty.




342


UG UST MEETIVNG, 1846


Ir. Duffield then moved the adoption of the resolution.
Carried. And the memorial of the Faculty was then read.
Justice Whipple moved it be again referred to the Executive
Committee, which motion prevailed.       Mr. Duffield subsequently stated the wish of the Faculty to withdraw it for
the purpose of presenting a fuller statement of facts and
views, which was acceded to.
Dr. Pitcher presented the Janitor's accounts and moved
their reference to the Executive Committee. So referred.
Mr. Pilcher, from the Committee on Professorships, appointed at the last meeting, submitted the following:
Report of the Committee on Professorships.
The Committee to whom was referred the subject of filling the
Professorship of Chemistry, etc., have had the subject under consideration and beg leave to report, that they have ascertained that
the Professor of Chemistry may be supplied temporarily as it has
been and that a Professor of Geology, etc., may be obtained who
will render all the services which may be required during the Winter Season (he being at liberty for the summer) free of charge.
It would be desirable to make a permanent appointment provided
the state of the finances would justify. But in view of the present
state of funds, your Committee is inclined to recommend the temporary arrangement. Should' the Board' think advisable to fill the
place at this time, we would recommend the combination of Chemistry, Botany, Zoology, and Geology, together for the present. The
following gentlemen have been named to your Committee as suitable to fill that Chair, viz. B. A. Smith, Dr. Douglass, Dr. Sager,
Prof. Shepard, and Prof. A. V. Blaney, of the Medical College of
Chicago. They would recommend the appointment of a Professor
of Modern Languages under the following arrangement, that he be
allowed a compensation for the small portion of the year that his
services may be demanded and that he be free from all responsibility connected with the government of the Institution; or that theappointment be made and he ieceive his salary by a tuition fee
charged upon those who wish to pursue those studies, the maximum
of which will be fixed by the Board. We are inclined to the first
named arrangement. We regard this as a subject well worthy the
attention and action of this Board. Two, gentlemen have been
named to us as suitable to fill that place,-Mr. Fasquelle and Mr.
C. A. Roy,-the former of whom is a man of undoubted qualification.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
E. H. PILCHER, Chairman.
Mr. Taylor moved that the Committee to whom was referred the subject of discontinuing the Branches be also instructed to consider the expediency of establishing a Branch
at Ann Arbor. Carried.
Mr. Allen moved that the Committee on Professorships




A UGUST MEETING, 1846


343


be instructed to enquire into the necessity of appointing a
Tutor in the place of B. A. Smith, resigned.
On motion, the Board adjourned to meet at 8 o'clock
Aug. 5th, at the Library of the University.
Wednesday Morning, Aug. 5th, 1846, 8 o'clock.
Board met pursuant to adjournment in the Library of
the University. Present, same as yesterday, with the addition of Hon. Elon Farnsworth, Chancellor.
The meeting was called to order, and the Regents proceeded to, sign the diplomas prepared for the graduating
class. The Board then adjourned to meet at 8 o'clock P. M.
at the same place.
Wednesday Evening, Aug. 5th, I846, 8 o'clock.
Present: same as in the morning.    Called to order by
the Governor.
M\r. Pilcher moved that the report of the Committee on
Professorships be adopted and the Committee discharged.
Dr. Pitcher offered the following resolution, which was
carried:
Resolved, That the Board do now proceed to the appointment
of a permanent Professor of Chemistry.
Recommendations were presented in favor of several
gentlemen named in the report of the Committee, and were
read by the Secretary, when on motion of Mr. Allen an informal ballot was taken which resulted as follows, viz.
For Dr. Douglass.........8
Prof. Shepard......2
B. A. Smith........ 
On motion of Justice Whipple,
Resolved, That Dr. Silas H. Douglass:be declared duly loppointed Professor of Chemistry in the University of Michigan from
this time.
On motion of Justice Whipple it was further,
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be authorized to devolve, if they shall deem it expedient, the duties of Professor of
Mineralogy and Geology upon the Professor of Chemistry, or in
their discertion to secure the services of Prof. Shepard to deliver
a Course of Lectures on the subjects during the present year.




344


A UGUST illEE TING, 1846


On motion of Justice Whipple, also further,
Resolved, That the Professor of Chemistry receive for his services the salary now paid the other Professors, viz. at the rate of
$700 per annum, for the time actually engaged in the performance of
his duties.
On motion of Chancellor Farnsworth,
Resolved, That the sum of $Ioo be added to the salary of each
of the Professors per annum.
Mr. Pilcher, from Committee, reported in favor of continuing the office of Tutor and moved the appointment of
one forthwith. After some discussion the motion was withdrawn, and the following offered by Justice Whipple was
adopted:
Resolved, That the Executive Committee be instructed not to
make an appointment of Tutor until the further order' of the
Board.
Mr. Redfield, from the Committee raised to consider the
expediency of discontinuing.the Branches, presented the
following report:
To the Honorable, the Board of Regents, of the University of M1ichigan:
Your Committee appointed by resolution of yesterday to inquire into and report upon the propriety of discontinuing the appropriations to any or all of the Branches of the University respectfully report that they have had the subject embraced by the resolution under consideration, but by reason of the brief time allowed
them to collect and arrange the necessary facts, they are enabled
to give but few reasons for the conclusion to which they have arrived.
They would recommend to the Board' the propriety of discontinuing,for the present the annual appropriation heretofore made to
all the Branches.
Your Committee are 'of the opinion lthat the revenue of the
University is not at the present time sufficient to make the University what it 'should be. Additional Professors,are wanted; the
Library and other necessary means of 'instruction should be increasedc.:Exipend!iture is' much' needed to repair and keep in repair
the buildings and grounds and other things connected therewith.
With the whole olf the income of the Funds much Imore could be
done to place:the University on a footing with the higher Institutions of other 'States. We believe that things of this kind unless
well done are better not attempted. T'he Branches in such places
as they are wanted' by the Ipeople we believe will be sustained without
the appropriations, and 'in other places they certainly do not deserve
the appropriations.
The Branclhes are 'but little more than the Common School of
the villages where located and but of little more than local advantage. Besides we can see no good reason why a few village schools
should continue to be favored by appropriations at the expense of




AUGUST MEETING, i846


345


and to the injury of the University, rather than many other towns
and villages, and we certainly are not able to carry out the system
generally, as was no doubt originally contemplated in the system of
sustaining a Branch in each iCounty. Were the funds sufficienteven to sustain a few Branches, still we think it would be better
not to do so until the system could be carried out. If we do preparepupils in a few Branches, yet 'if the University is allowed to languish we; cannot 'hope to Igather them into ilt, much, less call we
hope to attract students from abroad. We believe with a con 
centration and judicious use of all the funds' the 'University can
be made to compete successfully with any Institution 'in the Union.
Tlhe assistance 'of a few villages also does injury by creating jealousies among the towns, and villages of the iState.
We would offer the following resolutions:
I. Resolved, That the appropriation of $200 per annum 'heretofore made for the support of the Branches a't Tecumseh, Wh;lite
Pigeon, Kalamazoo, and Romeo be discontinued.
2. Resolved, That the Preparatory Department at Ann Arbor
'be discontinued, and that a Branch 'be located at that place, wiltlhouthowever, any appropriation. Also,
3. Resolved, T'hat the appointment of Principals to the Branches:
be hereafter discontinued.
Respectfully submitted, by direction of the Committee.
Z. PI'ITCHR, Chairman.
Mr. Redfield also presented' the petition of Edw. Bradley and
others, citizens of Marshall, for the establishment of a Branch at
that place.
On motion, the report of the Committee was accepted.
Justice Whipple moved to, adjourn until 8 o'clock tomorrow. Not seconded.
Chancellor Farnsworth moved that the resolutions reported 'by   the  Committee on     subject of discontinuing
Branches be laid on the table, but afterwards withdrew the
motion. Resolution No. i was then adopted. On motion
of Dr. Pitcher, No. 2 was laid on the table, and No. 3
amended so as to read:
Resolved, IThat the appointment of 'Principals to the Branches
be discontinued for the future.
Mr. Mundy, from the Committee on the subject of books
-missing from  the Library, reported that all but four had
been found.
On motion of Mr. Taylor, the Board proceeded to the
appointment of a Professor of Modern Languages. Letters
of recommendation were read in favor of Mr. C. A. Roy,
when on motion of Chancellor Farnsworth, it was:
Resolved, That Professor Louis Fasquelle, of th-is State, be
and he is hereby appointed Professor of Modern Languages in the
University of Michigan.




346            A UG UST MEETING, 1846
Mr. Pilcher moved that the Executive Committee be
authorized to make such arrangements with M1r. Fasquelle,on the subject of compensation as they shall deem proper.
Carried.
Mr. Allen moved that Mr. Lothrop be notified that the
Board will now hear him in behalf of Major Kearsley. Carried. And Mr. Lothrop appeared and addressed the Board.
No; action, however, was taken on the subject.
Mr. Wing moved that the special Committee on Ornamenting the College Grounds be discharged. Carried. And
on motion of Dr. Pitcher, it was:
Resolved. That the Executive Committee be authorized to appoint some suitable person to superintend the college grounds.
The Secretary was instructed to send copies of all resolutions in relation to the Faculty and College to the President of the Faculty.
Adjourned sine die.
E. N. WiLLcosx, Secretary.
ANNUAL REPORT
Report of Committee on Branches.
The Committee on Branches make the following report:
Since the last Annual Meeting of the Board, reports have tbeen
received from the White Pigeon, Romeo, Kalamazoo, and Tecumseh
Branches. T'he report from t'he W;hite Pigeon Branch, of the ioth
of April, 1846, (the last received), shows Ithe whole number of students to hbe thirty-nine, of whom twenty-ninte are males and ten
females, and of wlhom there are in the Classical Department, twelve.
The report from the Romeo Branch of the date of 'Marchb, I846,
(the last received), show's the w'hole numtber of 'students to be 115,
of whom 6I are males and 54 are females, and of whom 52 belong
to the Classical' Department. But it is reported by the Principal
that the "Classical Department embraces those pursuing the French
Language, as well as thle Latin and Greek."
The report from nthe Kalamazoo Branch dated July ii, I846,
shows the w'hole number of students to be go, of!whom 48 are males
and 42 females, and of whom 34 belong to the Classical' Department.
Recapitulation.
Branch        Whole No.   Maales    Females     Classical
White Pigeon          39         29         Io         I2
Romeo                I'5         6I         54         52
iKalamazoo            90         48         42         34
Tecumseh              43         23         24         I4
287        i6i        126        1i2




, UG UST MllEETING, I846


347


No report has been received from  either the Pontiac, Niles,
or Monroe Branches.
E. MUNDY,
Ann Arbor, Aug. 4th, I846.     COhairman o'f Committee.
Report of Ex.ecutive Colimnlittce.
This report embraces only the period from the last meeting of
the Board, Apr. 2ist, I846, to the present time. From  the last
Annual Meeting to the last special meeting referred! to ithe labors
of the Committee were confined to the ordinary duties of auditing
accounts of the.Officers. of the University and keeping the buildiings
in repair, a statement of which has been made by ithe Secretary and
forms a part of the report of the Committee on Finance.
At the meeting of the Board in April, a large number of
accounts, some!of them of several years standing, w'hiclh the Committee had not felt authorized to allow,, were laid before the Board
by the IChairman, Maj. Kearsley. 'These accounts were most of
them again referred to the Committee with authority to allow. and'
pay them in their discretion, and have since been passed upon and
such as were deemed. just, allowed. Most of t;he warrants stated, by
the Secretary as drawn on the 2d of May, I846, are for their payment.
The resolution authorizing the employment iof Dr. Sager in tlhe
Professorship of B'otany and' Zoology, during the Sprinlg Term has
not been carried into effect. The Committee upon consultation with
Dr. Sager, found that gentleman unwilling to leave his professional
business at Jackson 'for the short period proposed, deeming the compensation offered too 'inadequate to warrant it. As the IComrmittee
did 'not consider the subject of sufficient importance, no other gentleman was' engaged.
Soon after the last meeting of the Board, arrangements were
made by the Commititee with!Dr. Douglass for the completion of
the Course of Lectures on Chemistry, Mineralogy, etc., for the
academic year.
A resolution having passed" the Legislature o'f the 'State in
relation to t'h'e Cabinet of Mineralogical Specimens at the University, the Board referred the subject to, this Committee 'wit:h power
to act "as they should deem  expedient." As the resolution was
thought to be not sufficiently favorable to the interests of the Universit-, the Committee after some effort 'succeeded in procuring
the passage of an Act by the Legislature entitled, "An Act relative
to the Department of Natural History in the University of Michigan," approved May Ilth, I846. This is a modification of the resolution and is much more liberal in its provisions. At a meeting of
the Committee after its passage, Dr. Pitcher and Acting Professor
Douglass were appointed and authorized to carry it into effect.
Z. PITCHER, for Committee.
Report of Commnnittee o1n Finance.
The Committee on Finance would respectfully submit the following report for the year ending July 3Ist, I846:
Amount of Warrants outstanding and unpaid
Aug.  3Ist,  1845..........................  $1,446.27
Amount issued Ifrom  Aug. 31st, I845 Ito July
3Ist, 1846, as per schedule marked "A".....  5,I77.76  6,624.03




348              A UG UST MEE TING, 1846
Warrants paid by the Treasurer during the
same period, viz., by Joihn J. Adam, as per
his report, marked "B"..................   3,074.79
By D. V. Bell, as per ihis report marked "C"....  2,029.44  5,104.23
Leaving outstanding and unipaid, July 31st, I846.        $I,5I9.8o
iThe resources of the Board are as follows:
Balance in Treasury of Board;................  $46.63
Balance in the State Treasury..............    3,646.50
Showing a 'Cash Ibalance of......... $3,793.I3
Deduct amount of outstanding warrants................,59.80
Whiich leaves a balance after the payment of all outstanding warrants to. the credit of the Board of...........  2,273.32
To wihich. may be added' Cash now in the 'handis of the
Commissioner of the Land, Office, but not yet reported
to  'the  State  Treasurer.............................  654.89
The aggregate receipts of the University Fund from' Sept.
Ist, I845, to July 31st, 1846, as per schedule markedc
"D", 'have been         including a balance on:hand
Sept. 1845, of $503.18................................  4,458.52
Of this amount there has been received from the 'Sinking Fund                                              3,400.85
And from w'hich source the further sum of.............    I,oo.o
will be receivedl on the Ist olf October next.
In noticing 'the rapid' increase of revenue from  this source,
your Committee have no doubt but that sufficient will hereafter be
annually received to meet the interest upon the University loan.
J. OwNVN, Chairman,,Detroit, July 3Ist, I846.            Finance Commtittee.
Schedulze "A"
Referred to in Report of Finance Committee.
Statement.
iOf the Secretary of the B'oard of Regents of expenditures, etc.,
since the 3Ist of August, I845..
The following warrants have been authorized and issued upon
the Treasurer of the Universi'ty since Aug. 3Ist, 1845, viz.
1845
S'eplt. 12 Warrant No. 425' in favor of J'ohn J. Adam for
trees on Jefferson Ave. Lot in Detroit........    8.27
'Sept. I5, Warrant No. 426 in favor of J. B. Cihaplin, sal'ary
'as Principal o:f White Pigeon Branch, for term
commencing April Ist, I845.................      66.67
Sept. 20 VWarrant No. 427 in favor of C      Whas. W'illcox for
printing report of Committee on Professorships  and  dliplomas.........................  5.00
Oct.   3 IWarrant No. 428 inl favor olf Abram Sager for
services as Professor as allowed 'by Board
Sept. 3oth,  I841 5  ~.......................   Ioo.oo
Oct.   3 Warrant 'No. 429 in favor of A. IE. Hathon for
Nautical Almanac...........................     2.50
Oct. I6   Warrant No. 430 'in favor of A. E. Wing for
traveling expenses as Regent in April and
August,  I845.................................  2I.00




A UGUST MEETINVG, 1846                      349
'Oct. I7 Warrant No. 431 in favor of H. Colclazer for
services as Librarian and postage to Aug. 5th,
1845.......................................7I
Nov. II Warrant No. 432 in favor of H. A. Moore and
Co. for repairs to University...............   49.22
Nov. I,I Warrant No. 433: in favor of Maj. Kearsley for
traveling expenses as Regent.............       4.00
Nov. 27 JWarrant No. 434 in favor of Rufus Nutting for
salary as Principal of Romeo 'Branch, terim
ending Nov. 22nd, 1845.......................  66.67
Dec. I Warrant No. 435 in favor of F. 0. Marsh for
salary as Principal:of Tecumseh Branch, 'term
ending Nov. 25th, i845..................    66.66
Dec.  6 Warrant No. 436 in ifavor of,Corseli.us, & McCracken for printing notice of proposals......   I.oo
Dec.   8 Waarrant No. 43'7 in favor of S. M. W'ightman for
Chemical Apparatus............87. II
Dec.  8 Warrant No. 438 in favor of Jas. A. B. 'Stone
for salary for term ending Nov. 29th, I845....  66.66
Dec.  9 Warrant No. 439 in favor of Jas. V. Campbell1
'for salary as Secretary pro tern. and expendi-,tures............                            35. 2
Dec. I2 Warrant No. 440 in favor of R. R. Kellogg for
expenses attending meetings of the Board'....   21.75
Dec. 17 Warrant No. 441 in favor of Chas. Willcox for
printing catalogues, paper, etc............     39.33
Dec. 27  Warrant No. 442 in favor of A. Ten Brook for
salary for term ending 25;tlh Dec., 1845.......  233.33
Dec. 29 Warrant No. 443 in favor of B. A. Smith for
salary for term ending 25th Dec., I845... 1. I33.33
Dec. 30 Warrant No. 444 in favor of Geo. P. Williams
'for salary for term ending Dec. 25th, 1845...  233.33
1846
Jan.   5 Warrant 'No. 445 in favor of D. D. Whedon for
salary for term ending Dec. 25th, 845....   233.33
Jan. I5 Warrant No. 446 in favor of 'Geo. P. Williams
for services as Liibrarian preparing catalogues,
etc.....................................  I5.75
Jail. 25 Warrant No. 447 in favor of G. F. Rood! & Co.
ifor folding and 'stitching catalogues, etc......  4.00
Jan. 27 Warrant No. 448 in favor of J. E. Chaplin for
salary as! Principal of ~WVhilte Pigeon Branch
term ending Dec. 3Ist, 1845............        66.67
Fe'b.  3 Warrant No. 449 in 'favor of Jolhn J. Adcam for
insurance on University.....................  201.00
Feb. 6 Warrant No. 450 in favor of Zina P'itcher 'for
expenses attending meetings, postage, etc.....  8.76
Feb. io  Warrant No. 451: inl favor of Jno. J. Adam,
traveling expenses as Regent........        43.00
Feb. 13 Warrant t No. 452 in favor of S'herman & Smith
'for engraving diplomas....................    I21.20
Mar. 7 Warrant No. 453 in favor of William Draper for
expenses as Regent in I84-   -I-2............. 54.87
IMar. 25 Warrant No. 454 in favor of Rufus Nutting for
salary for term ending Mar. 2t, 846......       66.67
Afterwards miember of the Original Law Faculty (I859).




350              A UG UST MEETING, 1846
Feb. 23  Warrant No. 455 in favor of E. N. Willcox for
salary ass Secretary pro tent. for quarter ending
Jan.  28th,  846...............................  25.00
Mar. 25 Warrant No. 4561 in favor of Geo. P. Williams
for salary f!or term ending Apr. I5th, 1846....  233.33
Mar. 25 Warrant No. 457 in, favor of A. Ten Brook for
salary for term ending Apr. 15th, I846.....   233.33
April I Warrant No. 458 in favor of F. O. Marsh for
term  ending Mar. 20th, 846..................   66.66
April 9   Warrant No. 459 in favor of WVm. E. Peters in
part of account of Apr. 4th...................  I00.00
April 9  Warrant No. 460 in favor of B. A. Smith for
salary for term ending Apr. I5th, I846........  133.33
April 9 Warrant No. 46I in favor D. iD. Whedon for
salary for term ending Apr. I5th, 1846........  233.33
April 29  Warrant No'. 462 in favor o'f Wm. E. Peters for
'balance  of account of Apr. 4.................  30.48
April 30 Warrant No. 4631 in favor of Jas. A. B. Stone for
salary for term, ending Apr., I846.............  66.60
May    2 Warrant No. 464 in favor of M. Allen for expenses attending meeting of Board;, Apr. 2Ist..   2.60
May   2 Warrant 'No. 4651 in favor of Moore and Connell for accounts allowed by Executive Committee,  Apr.  28th,  1846......................  8o.8o
May   2 Warrant No. 466 in favor of Degraff & Townsend for account allowed by Executive Com'mitte, hardware 'for University..............  I5.07
May    2 Warrant No. 467 in favor of G. D. Hill & Co.
account allowed by Executive Commit'tee.....     4.94
MI/ay  2 Warrant No. 468 in favor of Thos. Lambert,
account allowed   by Executive    Committee,
repairs on University.......................   20.53
May    2 Warrant No. 469 in favor of C. iHathaway allowed by Executive Committee.............       I5.54
May    2 Warrant No. 470 in favor of H. A. Moore & Co.
allowed by Executive Committee, repairs.....     3.75
May   2 Warrant 47I in favor of A. Ten Brook, account
allowed by iExecutive Committee by order 'of
Board, Apr. 2Ist,  I846.......................  51.94
May    2 Warrant No. 4721 in favor of C. Eberbach for
chemicals for Univ. allowed; by Executive
Committee..................................     20.82
May   2 Warrant No. 473 in favor of Richard Kearns,
accounts allowed, by Executive Committee...      13.03
May   2 Warrant No. 474 in favor of A. MicLevan for
repairs, allowed, by Executive Committee....     2.00
May   2 Warrant No. 475 in favor of J. S. & S. A. Bagg,
account allowed by Executive Committee....        3.00
May   2 Warrant No. 476 in favor of H. 'S. Bagg........     26.25
May    2 Warrant No. 477 in favor of Bagg & Harmon..        I6.29
May   2 Warrant No. 478 in favor of S. S. Schoff, printing........................................     58.6o
May 14   Warrant No. 479 in favor of J. Holmes Agnew
for salary for May term.....................  233.33
May I8   Warrant No. 480 in favor of E. N. Willcox for
salary for quarter ending April 28th, I846....  25.00




4 UGUST MEETING, 1846
June 9 Warrant No. 48I in favor of Geo. P. Marsh, Vermont, for book and interest.................
June 27 Warrant No. 482 in' favor of D. D. Whedon, for
rent........................................
July 15 Warrant No. 4831 i'n favor of 'Thois. Lambert, account for painting, etc., of June I9th, 1846.....
July 15 Warrant No. 484 in favor of 'Geo. P. Williams
for salary for term ending Aug. 5th, 1846....
July I5 Warrant No. 485. in favor of D. D. Whedon for
isalary for term ending Aug. 5th, I846........
July I5 Warrant No. 48'6 in favor of A. Ten Brook for
salary for term' ending Aug. 5,th, I846.......
July I5.Warrant No. 487 in favor of Jas. A. B. Stone for
salary for term ending July IIth, I846........
July I5S  Warrant No. 488 in 'favor of B. A. iSmith, salary
for term endi'ng Aug. 5th, i846..............
July I IWarrant No. 489 in favor of J. Holmes Agnew:for one ihalf of salary for term  ending Dec.
25!th. I846.................................
July I6 Warrant No. 490 in favor of Rufus Nutting 'for
term  ending July IIth. I846................
July 25 Warrant No. 49i in favor of S..       S.. Schoff for
services as Assistant Librarian for terms encding Aug. 5'th and! Apr. I5t'h, I846............
July 28 'Warrant No. 492 in favor of J. E. Chaplin for
salary as Principal of White Pigeon Branch:for term! ending Apr. ioth. I846..............
July 28 'Warrant No. 493' in favor of J. E. Chaplin, 'salary
ifor term endling Aug. I846....................
July 28 Warrant No. 494 in favor of Jno. Owen & Co.,
account for paints, etc., for University......
July 25 Warrant No. 4951 in favor of 'E. H. Pilcher for
expenses attending meeting of the Board.....


35r
23.40
8.33
34.98
233.33
23.333
233.33
66.66
133.34
i66.66
66.67
20.00


66.67
66.67
I9.37
5.50


$5,I77.77
Numbers and Amounts of University Warrants Outstanlding
July 3I, 1846.
N o.  395................................................    $83.22
N o.  48I................................................    23.40
N o.  426................................................    66.67
No. 483.....-.34.98
N o.  484..................................................  34.98
N o.  48.................................................  -33.33
N o.  486..................................................  233.33
N o.  488................................................   33.34
N o.  490................................................   66.67
N o.  489................................................    260.0
No. 49...6.617
No. 492................................................        66.67
N o.  493.................................................   66.07
N o.  494................................................    I9.37
No.  49,5................................................      5.50
$1,5I9.8I
Detroit, July 31, 1846.          E. N. N.  ILLcox, Secretary.




352


AUGUST MEETING, 1846


SCHEDULE "B"
Referred to in Report of Finance 'Committee.
University of Michigan in account with
John J. Adam, Treasurer.
Dr.                1845
Oct. 3I To paid Warrant No. 3'73............     $300.00
To paid Warrant No. 398...........        66.66
'To paid Warrant No. 4 10........          66.66
To paid' Warrant No. 4I............  2333
To paid Warrant No. 417.........          66.66
To paid Warrant No. 420...........        233.33
To paid Warrant No. 421...........        Ioo.oo
To paid Warrant No. 4212.....66.67
To paid Warrant No. 424............      233.33
To paid Warrant No. 425............        8.27
To paid Warrant No. 427.......5.00
To paid Warrant No. 428............       0o.oo
To 'paid WVarrant No. 429......2.50
To paidl Warrant No. 430..........         2I.oo
To paid Warrant No. 431............         6.7I
Dec. 31   To paid Warrant No. 48............        66.66
To paid Warrant No. 419............        I7.oo
To Ipaid Warrant No. 423............       5.25
To paid' Warrant No. 433............        4.00
'To paid Warrant No. 434....         66.67
To paid Warrant No. 435...........        66.66
To paid; Warrant No. 43'6...........        I.oo
To paid, Warrant No. 437............      87.II
To paid Warrant No. 438...........        66.66
To paid Warrant No. 439...........        35.12
To lpaidi Warrant No. 44............       21.75
To paid Warrant No. 44I........            39.33
To paid Warrant No.442..........         233.33


Cr.


Jan.
Feb.
Oct.
Dec.
Dec.
Jan.
Feb.


1846
To paid Warrant No. 443...........
To paid Warrant No. 444............
12  To Daid; Warrant No. 432............
4  To paid 'Warrant No. 415............
To paid Warrant No. 445............;To paid' Warrant No. 446............
To paid Warrant No. 447............
To paid Warrant No. 448.........
To paid Warrant No. 449............
1845
31  By Cas!h received from  State Treasury
30  By Caslh rec'd from Prof. Williams' for
Initiation   Fees.....................
31  By Cash if,rom State Treasury.........
12  By do. from 'Rev.-'M. Allen for rent of
iGov.  Felch........................
4  By do. from State Treasury...........


133.33
233.33
49.22
7.50
233.33
I5.75
4.00
66.67
201.00
$1,420.12
Z3.00
994.20
50.00
527.47
$3,074.79 $3.074.79




AUGUST MEETING, 1846                          353
SCHEDULE      "C."
Referred to in Report of Finance Committee.
University of Michigan in account with
Dr.                D. V. Bell, Treasurer                 Cr.
1846
M\iay 30 To paid Warrant No. 450............        8.76
To paid Warrant No. 45I............        43.00
To paid Warrant No. 452............       121.20
To paid Warrant No. 453............        54.87
To paid Warrant No. 454............       6 66.67
To paid Warrant No. 455            5........... 25.00
To paid; Warrant No. 456.......           233.33
To paid, Warrant No. 457......           233.33
To paidl Warrant No. 458...........        66.66
To paid Warrant No. 459.                  I00.00O
0o paid Warrant No. 460............       I33.33
To paid Warrant No. 461............       233.33
To paid Warrant No. 462............        30.48
To paid Warrant No. 463............        66.66
To paid Warrant No. 464...........         2.60
To paid' Warrant No. 465........            o.8o
'To paid! Warrant No. 466............      I5.07
To paid Warrant No. 469............        554
To paid Warrant No. 470...........         3.75
To paid Warrant No. 479............       233.33
To paid, Warrant No. 480............       25.00
June 30  To paid, Warrant No. 47.......      51.94
To paid Warrant No. 483............         8.33
Paid! interest and commission on University Bonds to July I, 1846....... $6,070.4
July 30  To paid Warrant No. 472............        20.82
To paid Warrant No. 473............       I3.03
To paid Warrant No. 474............        2.00
To paid Warrant No. 475............         3.00
To paid' Wardant No. 476............      26.25
To paid, Warrant No. 477............      I6.29
To paid Warrant No. 478............ 59.60
To paid Warrant No. 467............        4.94
To paid' Warrant No. 468............      253
July 31 Balance on hand......................     I46.63
1846
May 22    By amount received from Rev. M. Allen,for rent of Lhouse occupied 'by Gov.
Felch..............................          $250.00
May 30    By Cash received from State Treasurer            1,633.36
June 30 'By Cash received from State Treasurer             6,070.41
By amount received from Rev. A. Ten
Brook for entrance fees, $Io9.70, catalogues, $I8................  $I27.70
less postage, cartage........  1.45            T26.25
July 30   By Cashl received from State Treasurer            166.46
$8,246.48 $8,246.48




354              4 UG UST MEETING, 1846
I846
July  31  By  Balance  on  hand............................  $I46.63
By Balance in State Treasury.................  3,66.50
$3,793. 13
Detroit, July 31, 1846.
Respectfully submitted.
D. V. BELL,
Treasurer, University of Michigan..
ISCHEDULE "D."
Referred to in Report of Finance Coimmit'tee.
Treasurer of the State of Michigan in account
Dr.            with University Interest Fund.
1845
Sept. 8 To Balance old account..............     $543.68
Sept. 30 To Cash.............................    249.69
Oct.  i To Sinking Fund.....................     668.22
Oct. 31 ITo lCas!h............................  1,383.00
Nov. 29 To Cash.............................      540.90
I846
Jan.   I  To  Sinking  Fund.......................  767.70
Feb.  I19  To  Cash...............................207.73
Feb.  28  To  Cas!h.............................  962.20
Mar.  12  To  Cash.............................  1,329.80
Apr. 8!Td Sinking Fund......................      874.83
Apr. 30 To Cash.............................      275.53
May    i T,o,Cash.............................  4,640.93
May 30 To Cash.............................      700.00
June 30 To Cash..............................     264.21
July  I 'To;'Sinking Fund..................... I,090.10
1845                                                     Cr.
Oct. 31  By,Cash to Treasurer of University...         $I,420.I2'
Dec. 31  By Cash, to Treasurer of University....          994.20
I846
Feb. 28 By Cash to Treasurer of University....             527.47
Mar. I2 'By Cash! for interest on loan                     540.00.
(May 30 By'Cash to Treasurer of University...             1,633-36
June 30  By Cas;h for balance interest on loan...          66.46
$I4,458.52 $10,812.02
Balance..........          $3,646.50
State Treasurer's Office,
Detroit, July 31I, I846.
I certify the above to be a true copy of the books of this office,
showing the receipts and disbursements by the (State Treasurer
from September Ist, 18451 to date, inclusive.
A. T. HALL.
Deputy IState Treasurer.




A UG UST iMEEETING, I846


355


Previous to the adjournment of the Board, Gov. Felch
announced the following appointments for standing Conmmittees for the year:
Committee on Branches: 'Messrs. Mundy, Lane. and Redfield.
Executive Committee: Messrs. Kears'ley. Pitcher, 'Duffield, Miundy. Taylor.
Finance Committee: Messrs. Owen, Pitcher, and Allen.
iExamining Committee: Messrs. Farnsworth, A. iE. Wing, 'Goodwin, Whipple, and, Pilcher.
E. WN. VILcox, Secretary.
Ninth 4Annual Report of the Board of.Regents of the University of
llichigan to the Super-intendent of Public Instriuction.
In compliance 'with the law for the organization of the UnivTersity of Mic'higan the Board of Regents submit their Ninth Annual
Report to the Superintendent of Public Instruction.
The Report of the Finance Comimi:ttee exhibits the receipts of
the University and the expenditures during the past year.
The following are the graduates of the year:
George P. Androus, of Ann Arbor, Mich.
George L. Becker, of Ann Arbor.
Philander G. Buchanan, of Norwalk, Ohio.
'Edwin S. Dunham, o!f Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Charles J. Hunt, of Wa'terford, Mich.
James S. Mitchell, of Greenwich, Ohio.
Anthony Mosher, and,
James M. Walker, of Farmington, Mich.
Charles W. Noble, and,
W~infield Smith, of Monroe, Mich.
William W. Perry, of Ann) Arbor, Mich.
'William W. Phelps, and,.
Nathaniel West, of Pontiac, Mich.
Homer F. 'Schoff, and,
Savillon S. Sohoff, of Portland', Mich.
Adonijah S. Welch, of Chatham, Conn.
James O. Whittemore, of Detroit, Mich.
The Rev. J. Holmesi Agnew!has been appointed Professor of
the Latin and Greek Languages in place of Rev. Joseph Whiting,
deceased. Dr. Silas H. Douglass has been appointed Professor of
Chemistry, and' Louis Fasquelle, Prof essor of Modern Languagees.
The salary of the itwo Professors last named is limited to such proportion o'f each year as they may be respectively employed. The
number of students cannot be accurately ascertained; and given in
this report by reason of the period it embraces, but will appear from
the Annual Catalogue published by the Faculty. It may be safe
to say they are steadily on the increase.
iFrom data furnished 'by the State Treasurer and Colmmissioner
of the State Land Office, the $Ioo,ooo debt of the University has
been reduced $66,I50, and it therefore appears the University is now
indebted on account of said loan, $33,350. The resources of the
Interest Fund have been adequate to meet the current demands upon
the Treasury of the University during the past year. It is hoped
that the system relative to the University Fund 'imay now be considered as permanently settled, and that future legislation may not




356


JANUARY MEETING, 1847


again disturb the finances upon which alone the Regents must rely
for the advancement of that Literature designed by the original
munificient grant of Congress.
By order of the Board' of Regents.
J. K^ARSLEY, Chairman,
Detroit, December I5t'h, I846.  Executive Committee.
SPECIAL MEETING, JANUARY, I847.
January 7th, 1847.
At the Supreme Court Room, in the City of Detroit,
Thursday evening, Jan. 7th, 1847, at 7 o'clock.
Present: His Excellency Alpheus Felch, LieutenantGovernor William L. Greenly, Hon. Epaphroditus Ransom,
HIon. Charles W. Whipple, Hon. Warner Wing, Hon.
George Miles, Hon. Edward Mundy, Dr. Pitcher, Rev. Dr.
Duffield, Maj. Kearsley, Hon. Austin E. Wing, Rev. Charles
C. Taylor, Rev. E. H. Pilcher, Minot T. Lane, Esq., and
John Owen, Esq.
The Proceedings of the last meeting were read and approved.
Maj. Kearsley, from   the Executive Committee, presented sundry accounts against the University which on
motion were referred to said Committee with authority to
allow and pay in their.discretion and also to act upon all
outstanding claims and accounts.
Maj. Kearsley also stated that he had received from
Patrick Kelly, the Janitor, certain notes of the River Raisin
Bank, which were alleged to have been taken by Kelly from
students, and on motion, it was ordered that said notes be
received and credited to Mr. Kelly as money, and that the
Executive Committee dispose of the same to the best advantage..
Dr. Pitcher moved to take up the resolution laid upon
the table at the meeting on the 2Ist April, 1846, in relation
to claim of John J. Adam, for services as Treasurer, which
motion prevailed. The resolution as then amended was then
passed.
Maj. Kearsley offered the following, which was adopted:
Resolved, That the sum of $50 per annum be allowed as the
salary of the Treasurer to commence with the beginning of the
official term of the present incumbent.




JANUARY MEETING, 1847


357


An amendment offered by Mr. Owen to strike out "fifty"
and insert "one hundred," was lost.
Dr. Pitcher presented a claim of Jas. A. B. Stone for
services as Principal of Kalamazoo Branch tendered since
the resolution of Board discontinuing Branches, together
with a report and communication of Mr. Stone on the subject, which on motion were laid upon the table.
Maj. Kearsley presented a proposal of Mr. A. DeForest
for the building of barns, which was referred to Executive
Committee.  (The communication was sealed and addressed to the Board of Regents. The Secretary was ordered
to open and read.)
Judge Whipple stated that he had an account in his possession and moved its reference to the Executive Committee. So referred.
Maj. Kearsley called for the reading of the Proceedings
of the Executive Committee on the subject of Professorships of Chemistry and Modern Languages. Read by the
Secretary when the following was adopted.
Resolved, That the Board herebv approves of the resolutions
passed by the Executive Committee on the subject of employing
Professors Fasquelle and Sager.
Maj. Kearsley then introduced the subject of building
barns and exhibited plans, specifications, and proposals,
to which he invited the attention of the Board. On motion
of Dr. Pitcher, laid on the table.
Maj. Kearsley read a communication from   Prof. J.
Holmes Agnew in behalf of himself and other occupants of
University Buildings addressed to the Executive Committee on the subject of Professors' Houses, which, on motion
of Dr. Duffield, was referred to a Special Committee of
three. Dr. Duffield, Gov. Mundy, and Judge Wing were
appointed such Committee. Justice Wing declined and the
Hon. Austin E. Wing was substituted.
Dr. Pitcher, from the Sub-committee appointed by the
Executive Committee, read a report on the arrangement of
the State collection in the Department of Natural History,
which was, on motion, referred to the Executive Committee.
Dr. Pitcher also presented a report from the Committee



