
JULY MEETING, 2003


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 17, 2003
The Regents convened at 1:05 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Courant, Interim Executive Vice
President Greenfield, Vice President Harper, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little,
Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice
President Slottow, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and
Vice President Wilbanks.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and announced that Public
Comments would be divided into two sessions. The first session, covering topics
related to the budget, would be the next order of business, and the second session would
be held following the budget discussion and vote.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated:
Aaron Klein, alumnus, Martin Farnham and Miroslav Kummel, students, and Phil Roe,
faculty member, on the closure of the student woodshop; Holly Burmeister, student and
vice president of the Graduate Employees Organization (GEO), on health care for
members of GEO; and Adele Smaill, student and member of the GEO, on issues regarding
residence hall libraries.
Following a 5-minute break, President Coleman turned to the next item of
business.
Introductory Comments - 2003-2004 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
President Coleman commented that this had been an extremely difficult year
financially, with a significant downturn in the economy in the state and nation. To meet
this challenge, the University had looked extremely hard at the budgets of all three
campuses and had reduced costs as much as possible to become more efficient. She
thanked all of the executive officers and Regents for their work in this area and noted that
it had been a thoughtful, productive process. She called on Executive Vice President
Slottow.
Mr. Slottow noted that the responsibilities of the executive vice president and
chief financial officer are to effectively track and manage financial performance, protect
and strengthen the balance sheet, evaluate the operating budgets to ensure they maintain
the University's overall financial health, and to identify long-term financial challenges
and strategies for meeting them. Another responsibility that has become increasingly
important is to continue to focus on financial controls and compliance.
In the area of financial controls and compliance, Executive Vice President Slottow
noted that the University continues to receive unqualified audit opinions and has also


1




July Meeting, 2003


received sound advice from the Regents' Finance, Audit and Investment Committee in
this area. He reported that the Financial Controls Task Force has revamped nearly all of
the University's financial controls, policies, and practices, including travel and hosting
reimbursement, purchasing practices, and such areas as cash management and property
disposition, among others. Work has also been done to simplify sponsored research
administration and increase financial controls in this area.
He reported that the University has continued to make it easier for parents,
students, and faculty to conduct business with the University via the web, including
applications, registration, bill payment, and many other areas.  Supply chain
management has also improved, with new prime vendor contracts having been
negotiated and more procurement being done electronically.
Regarding the balance sheet, Executive Vice President Slottow commented that
his office manages $8.5 billion in assets, including $2.4 billion in physical properties,
$5.5 billion in investments, and $0.6 billion in other assets. He displayed a graph
illustrating the University's investments in physical plant renewal, which shows that
more funds continue to be invested in renovation than in new buildings and that the
University continues to invest more in renovation than depreciation, thus illustrating the
University's sustained commitment to renovation and infrastructure renewal. He
pointed out that there are multi-year renewal plans in a number of areas and that
deferred maintenance needs are always addressed concurrent with programmatic
renovation investments.  Savings have been realized by subjecting construction
expenses to a much more rigorous focus on requirements, which increases competition
and lowers costs and has saved millions of dollars in new building construction.
Executive Vice President Slottow listed strategies being used to aggressively
manage balance sheet assets and liabilities and noted that these have resulted in
significant cost savings. He said that the University has a healthy ratio of assets to
liabilities and of debt to financial assets, but he pointed out that liabilities do not include
the liability for future health benefits for retirees and that the majority of financial assets
are in endowment or have restrictions as to their use.
It is important, he noted, that the University continue to adhere to core financial
principles, including focusing on financial controls, adhering to a prudent debt policy,
enforcing the endowment spending rule and long-term investment strategy, and
maintaining a commitment to infrastructure renewal and to a disciplined operating
budget strategy.
He concluded that the annual operating budget is only one indicator of the
University's financial condition, and that the proposed budget is consistent with
maintaining the University's overall financial health.  Quoting from  a Moody's
Investors Service press release of February 2003, he stated that the University's
financial health is due to a "disciplined budget process, appropriate expense controls...
powerful market draw [due to] selective undergraduate and graduate programs...
well-diversified revenue base... manageable plans for additional borrowing... [and a]
capable management team."
President Coleman stated that the 2003-2004 Operating Budgets for all campuses
would be presented next.


2




July Meeting, 2003


2003-2004 Ann Arbor Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student
Tuition and Fee Rates
Provost Courant reported that the proposed operating budget calls for total revenues
of $4.239 billion and total expenditures of $4.268 billion. The deficit has to do with funds
that the Medical School had been accruing over several years for specific purposes and
which will be spent in fiscal year 2004.
He then gave a presentation about the proposed General Fund budget, which, he
noted, was derived under the most severe fiscal challenges the University has faced in
over a generation. He described the organizing principles on which the budget is based.
First, to preserve access to the highest quality education despite a 10% cut in state
appropriations, the University is increasing central financial aid for undergraduates and
limiting the tuition increase to 6.5%, which is the lowest in the state and among the
lowest in the Big Ten. Second, every unit is bearing some of the effect of budget cuts,
with administrative units and activities bearing a disproportionately larger share.
Lastly, the University will continue to focus on the long-term quality of the institution
while managing short-term budgetary difficulties.
Provost Courant noted that the reduction in state appropriation combined with a
reduction in interest income, cost increases, and commitments and essential initiatives,
yield a total budget challenge of $81.8 million. To partially meet this challenge,
expenditures have been reduced by $37.5 million. He displayed charts illustrating the
annual percentage changes in General Fund revenues from state appropriation and
tuition and noted that the growth in the FY 2004 proposed budget is negative. He
pointed out that in the face of a 10% cut in state appropriation, the University's
proposed resident tuition increase is substantially less than it was for FY 2003, when
there was a zero percent increase in state appropriation.
Provost Courant commented that the fact that the University's proposed tuition
increase is 4th lowest among Big Ten institutions and the lowest of any Michigan
public institution can be attributed to the success of ongoing efforts to cut costs and to
respond to specific challenges faced for FY 2004. He enumerated specific areas of
centralized and non-centralized cost reductions, cost containment, and expenditure
reductions, both in centralized and non-centralized operations.
He noted that a major initiative is underway to reduce health care benefits costs
both for the upcoming year and in the future. Beginning in January 2004, most
employees will share in the cost of health insurance premiums, and a committee of
faculty and staff has been working to examine the best ways to determine University
and employee contribution formulas on an ongoing basis. Their report will be issued in
September, and policy decisions based on this report will be implemented in January
2005.
He also described the multitude of cost-containment and expenditure reduction
actions that have occurred in decentralized units across the campus, which have totaled
$26 million in academic programs and $11 million in administrative areas. He stated
that the reductions in academic areas do not put the essentials of a Michigan education
at risk, although some of them may be difficult to sustain and their consequences will
be monitored.


3




July Meeting, 2003


Provost Courant pointed out that even after making cuts in activities and costs,
most of the academic units will receive modest budget increases, most accounted for by
tuition generated by increased numbers of students and increased volume of indirect
cost recovery from sponsored research. General fund budgets for administrative units
will be reduced.
Provost Courant concluded that although this budget is tighter than those of the
recent past, the priorities--maintaining excellence and access--are unchanged, including
meeting the demonstrated financial needs of all resident undergraduate students. He
noted that financial aid resources have increased beyond the rise in tuition in the FY
2004 budget and that administrative budgets are declining while academic budgets are
rising. Faculty and staff quality, and the breadth and depth of academic offerings, will
be maintained.
2003-2004 Dearborn Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student
Tuition and Fee Rates
Chancellor Little noted that the campus has experienced unavoidable cost increases,
combined with a 10% reduction in state appropriation. He described the collaborative,
principle-driven process that has guided development of the budget, with the highest
principle being to preserve and enhance the academic quality of educational offerings at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn. He noted that the Dearborn campus takes full
advantage of all of the cost-savings systems developed on the Ann Arbor campus.
Chancellor Little noted that the 10% cut in state appropriations amounted to $2.8
million for the Dearborn campus. The first action was to mandate a 2% budget
reallocation across the campus, which yielded $1 million. To ensure accessibility,
additional funds were added to the financial aid budget above the amount necessary to
match the tuition increases.  The recommended budget also involves a 1.5%
merit-based salary program. Chancellor Little noted that enrollment growth has
allowed for an increase of $1 million in the base budget from additional tuition
revenues. The recommended tuition increase is 9.5%, or $232 per semester.
2003-2004 Flint Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and
Fee Rates
Chancellor Mestas commented that a combination of factors has led to a particularly
challenging situation for the Flint campus.  These include the 10%  cut in state
appropriation, a 10% increase in fixed costs, and a projected 4% drop in enrollment,
which is unique to the Flint campus. To meet these challenges, he said the FY 2004
budget includes no faculty or staff salary increases, an 11% increase in tuition and fees, a
corresponding 11% increase in student financial aid, and a total budget cut of $4.0
million. He described how the budget reductions would be achieved and noted that
teaching and other instructional activities are being protected as much as possible.
Despite the tuition increase, Chancellor Mestas observed that the University of
Michigan-Flint is moving from the fifth most affordable institution in the state to the
fourth most affordable, making it one of the best values in higher education.


4




July Meeting, 2003


2003-2004 University Health Service Fee
Vice President Harper noted that the University Health Service is a comprehensive,
full-service outpatient facility that has 70,000 patient visits per year. The health service
fee allows students to receive primary health care services without additional
out-of-pocket expenses and supports an extensive, campus-wide, educational program in
addition to providing other health-related services. The proposed 2003-2004 fee increase
for University Health Service is 5%, or $6.20, yielding a total fee of $130.35 per student
per term.
2003-04 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Student Legal
Services (SLS), and School/College Governments
Vice President Harper noted that the proposed fees for fiscal year 2003-04 for MSA,
SLS, and school/college governments are the same as for 2002-03: $6.69 per student per
term for MSA; $5.50 per student per term for SLS; and $1.50 per student per term for
school and college governments.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Proposed FY 2004
Operating Budget
Interim Executive Vice President Greenfield commented that the UMHHC met its
targeted FY 2003 operating margin of 2% and that the target margin for FY 2004 is 3%.
The major risks in achieving this margin are assumptions that market demand will remain
strong and that physician and nurse capacity and plant capacity will be sufficient to meet
the demand. Government responses to the economic market, sustainability of the payer
mix, and the ability to continue to manage budgeted expenses constitute the other major
risks of the proposed budget.
Dr. Greenfield displayed a chart giving activity assumptions for the 2002 (actual),
2003 (projected), and 2004 (proposed) budgets. Inpatient discharges, inpatient days,
and onsite operating room cases are projected to increase above historical levels, while
clinic visits are expected to increase at historical levels. It is projected that offsite
operating room cases will remain flat, following an increase of more than 50% between
FY 2002 and FY 2003. The average discharge length of stay will also remain relatively
flat.
Dr. Greenfield noted that operating room capacity has been and will continue to be
increased and that there will be increased recruiting of surgical faculty and nursing to
support this increase. The major drivers of the FY 2004 operating budget are a
significant increase in surgical procedures, productivity improvements and supply
management initiatives, and a competitive salary program. The budget calls for
operating revenue of $1.161 billion, (9.1% increase); operating expenses of $1.116
(7.0% increase), total expenses of 1.126 billion (8.0% increase); and an operating
margin of $34.8 million (3.0% increase).
FY 2004 University of Michigan Athletic Department Operating Budget
President Coleman called on Mr. Bill Martin, athletic director. Mr. Martin reviewed
the financial principles of the Athletic Department and noted that it is a self-supporting,
auxiliary unit that funds all varsity sports to achieve success. The department strives to
fulfill its gender equity goals, pursues limited commercialization, seeks a balanced budget


5




July Meeting, 2003


over the long term, and strives to maintain the athletic campus consistent with available
resources.
Regarding current budget realities, Mr. Martin noted that the department relies
heavily on football attendance revenues and that the scheduling of a seventh home
football game in 2002 and 2003 has had a beneficial effect on the budget by providing
an additional $4 million in revenues for each of those two years. The department's
annual fundraising efforts continue to lag behind its peers, and expenses throughout
intercollegiate athletics continue to accelerate.
Mr. Martin reported that for FY 2003, the Athletic Department will have a
projected operating surplus of over $5 million. He said that fewer student season
football tickets had been sold than budgeted, which was a significant positive factor in
projected revenues. Mr. Martin reviewed expenses for FY 2003 and noted that there
were significant increases in both facilities expenses and in operating and
administrative expenses over budget.  These were due to facilities repairs and
repayment of funds to the NCAA as a result of basketball program infractions that had
occurred a decade ago.
The FY 2004 Athletic Department budget includes projections of $58.9 million in
revenue (5.1% increase), $57.2 million in expenses (5.6% increase), and an operating
budget surplus of 1.6 million. It is based on modest increases in football ticket prices
and conservative budgets for student ticket sales, licensing revenues, and annual fund
giving. Expenses include a deferred maintenance fund transfer of $2.25 million and a
7% increase in financial aid costs, a 7% market-rate increase in compensation, and a 7%
increase in team and game expenses.
Mr. Martin reviewed planned capital projects, the most high priority of which is
the planned Academic Success Center. He said that $2.1 million in signed pledges has
been received and commitments have been made for $6.4 million. Other future projects
include a new fieldhouse, baseball and softball stadiums, and a basketball and wrestling
practice facility.
Regarding the balance sheet, Mr. Martin noted that a deferred maintenance fund
was established in the current fiscal year with initial funding of $2.25 million, and an
additional allocation of $2.25 million is planned for FY 04. The department enjoys a
relatively modest debt level of $8.0 million. The market value of the scholarship
endowment is $20 million, and the market value of the quasi-endowment is $15 million.
There was a projected operating reserve of approximately $5 million in June 2003.
The work plan for FY 2004 includes creating a stabilized economic model that
includes study and implementation of priority seating; beginning construction of the
academic success center; continued fundraising efforts for other capital projects;
continued study and analysis of press box renovation; and finally, continuing to work
on cost control initiatives.
Discussion of Proposed FY 2004 Budgets
Regarding the proposed Ann Arbor campus General Fund Budget, Regent Newman
stated that the idea of raising costs at a time when families find it difficult to afford a
Michigan education is difficult. She is concerned about rising costs, increasing financial
aid, and affordability and had hoped and believed that more could be done. However, in


6




July Meeting, 2003


support of the other board members and the administration, she had decided to vote in
favor of the tuition increases because of the unprecedented scope of the budgetary
challenge and because of the major effort that had been expended to pare the increase to
the current figures. She predicted that the coming year would be equally difficult and
noted that the institution had to find ways "to do more with less."
Regent Deitch complimented President Coleman and her management team on
their hard work in achieving the current budget recommendation. He noted that
responsible budgets could have been achieved at either slightly higher or slightly lower
levels of increase, but that on balance, the proposed budget "represents a Herculean
effort" and good faith. He observed that the Board and administration have an ongoing
commitment to the breadth, depth, and quality of a Michigan education. However,
preserving access is always a concern. Although commitment to financial aid is strong,
this is a complicated matter as the amount of financial aid represents both an increase
and a shifting of dollars from the full-rate payers to others. He stated that he remains
concerned about tuition and that the University needs to continue to focus on families
who do not qualify for financial aid but find it difficult to afford tuition payments in the
face of other familial obligations. He concluded that this challenge has been met with
this budget proposal. He commended Regent Newman for the continuing concern she
has expressed over the years about exercising restraint over tuition increases.
Regent Brandon stated that as chair of the Finance, Audit, and Investment
Committee, he is proud to report that he is in full support of the budget. He said that the
committee has learned more about this budget than any previous budget, and he noted
that the process has been transparent and open. The questions asked and responses
received from senior administrators were important in achieving the final budget
proposal. He commended the executive officers and staff for their openness, candor,
and communication flow that was instrumental in reaching this point.
Regent McGowan noted that she had been skeptical when the Board had
established the committee system over a year ago. Since that time, she has come to the
conclusion that under the guidance of Regent Brandon as chair and the participation of
fellow Finance, Audit, and Investment Committee member Regent Taylor, along with
the rest of the Board and with the assistance of the executive officers, the committee
had functioned "remarkably well and responsively and responsibly." She thanked
Regent Brandon for his leadership.
Regent Maynard commented that "this is probably one of the more painful budgets
that I've experienced." However, she said that "it has also been the best vetted budget
process that I've been through since I've been a Regent." Speaking as one who is not a
member of the Finance, Audit, and Investment Committee, she complimented that
committee for their work in ensuring that all of the Regents were thoroughly informed
about all aspects of the budget process. She complimented President Coleman, Provost
Courant, and Executive Vice President Slottow for all of their efforts in developing the
budget recommendations. Regent Maynard observed that in light of the much larger
tuition increases at other institutions, combined with the University of Michigan's
strong commitment to a commensurate increase in financial aid, she feels good about
the budget being put forth at this meeting.


7




July Mleeting, 200 3


Regent White applauded the administration's commitment to meeting the
demonstrated financial aid needs of resident undergraduate students.
Regent Richner commented that as a state legislator prior to being elected to the
Board, he had looked forward to having an opportunity to limit annual tuition rate
increases. However, since joining the Board, he realized that his preconceptions had
been unrealistic and that in light of the 10% cut in state appropriations the University,
had developed "the most reasonable budget we could possibly come up with." He
noted that it is significant that the percentage of tuition increase is at a lower level than
the state budget cut, indicating that serious efforts had been made to reduce costs and
improve efficiencies in the budget. He applauded the administration for having taken
this course.
2003-2004 Revenue and fExpenditure Operating Budgets; Proposed Ann Arbor FY
2003-04 General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee Rates
Regent Taylor moved approval of the 2003-2004 Revenue and Expenditure
Operating Budgets, the proposed Ann Arbor FY 2003-04 General Fund Operating
Budget, and the proposed Ann Arbor FY 2003-04 student tuition and fee rates, as
described in the Regents Communications. Regent Brandon seconded the motion and it
was approved unanimously.
President Coleman commented that the financial situations on the Dearborn and
Flint campuses are very different from those on the Ann Arbor campus, so that the Ann
Arbor campus has a much better ability to withstand state budget cuts. She stated that
the Regents and executive officers fully recognize this and understand that the branch
campuses have worked just as hard as the Ann Arbor campus to cope with the economic
situation. She also expressed the hope that the state will begin increasing its support of
higher education once the economy improves. She thanked the executive officers for
their willingness to forego any salary increases for the 2003-2004 fiscal year.
Proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2003-04 General Fund Operating Budget and
Student Tuition and Fee Rates
Regent Brandon moved approval of the proposed Dearborn Campus FY 2003-04
General Fund Operating Budget and student tuition and fee rates, as described in the
Regents Communication. Regent McGowan seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Proposed Flint Campus FY 2003-04 General Fund Operating Budget and Student
Tuition and Fee Rates
Regent Maynard moved approval of the proposed Flint Campus FY 2003-04
General Fund Operating Budget and student tuition and fee rates, as described in the
Regents Communications. Regent White seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
2003-2004 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Student Legal
Services (SLS), and School/College Governments
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved fee assessments of $6.69 per student per term for MSA, $5.50 per


8




July Meeting, 2003


student per term for SLS, and $1.50 per student per term for school and college
governments. All of these rates are unchanged from those for 2002-2003.
2003-2004 University Health Service Fee
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a 5.0% increase ($6.20 per student per term) in the University
Health Service fee for 2003-2004. The new fee will be $130.35 per student per term.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Proposed FY
2004 Operating Budget
President Coleman commended UMHHC           officials for their excellent work in
managing the UMHHC and preparing the operating budget. Regent Brandon observed
that the Hospitals and Health Centers were one of the first units examined by the Regents'
Finance, Audit, and Investment Committee. The current 2% operating margin and the 3%
operating margin in the 2004 budget is a real accomplishment, he noted. It makes a
statement about the UMHHC leadership and illustrates the high degree of competence of
everyone involved. Regent Deitch agreed and noted that he "can't imagine that there is a
better hospital administrator in this country than Mr. Warren" and the other health system
leaders.
President Coleman suggested that this would be an appropriate time to recognize
the accomplishments of Dr. Greenfield in leading the health system during this past
year as interim executive vice president for medical affairs. She called on Regent
Newman.
Regent Newman recalled an encounter she had had as a patient of Dr. Greenfield,
and she noted that he had been kind and caring, and although a surgeon, he had
recommended an alternative course of treatment other than surgery. These traits, of
being kind, caring, and thorough, had carried through during his service as interim
executive vice president, and she said the Regents would miss him. She then read the
following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University ofMichigan commend Lazar J. Greenfield as he
completes his term as interim executive vice president for medical affairs.
During his year of service as executive vice president, Dr. Greenfield,
professor of surgery and former F.A. Coller Professor of Surgery and chair of the
Department of Surgery, oversaw the operations of the Medical School, the University
of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, M-CARE, and the Michigan Health
Corporation. In a time of great turmoil in the health-care industry, Dr. Greenfield
maintained the fiscal vitality of the Health System by directing it through simultaneous
cost containment efforts and expansion in capacity, and by shepherding development of
major capital projects. The Regents relied on his incisive vision when considering
approval of the Cardiovascular Centelr, which soon will stand as a new jewel in the
crown of the University o(f Michigan Health System.. He was also instrumental in the
significant advancement of other capital projects, including the Depression Center,
operating room expansion, and the Biomedical Science Research Building. He
initiated development of the highly regarded website, "Genetics: The Symphony of
Life, " a multidisciplinary tour of both the beauty and vital nature of genetics research
at the University of Michigan.  Dr. Greenfield guided the Health System's


9




July Meeting, 2003


comprehensive effort to meet both the letter and spirit of the new Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act requirements, and he was instrumental in achieving
full preparedness to meet emerging pblic health concerns, such as SARS and Wlest
Nile virus.
The Regents now express their deepest appreciation to Lazar J. Greenfield for
his exemplary service as interim executive vicevi president fir medical affairs and wish
him 'well as he returns to his role as a distinguished faculty member in the Department?f Surge;y.
A standing ovation followed. Dr. Greenfield thanked the Regents and noted "what
a privilege and pleasure it's been to work with you." He also commented about how
much the Health System appreciates the Regents' endorsement and support.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMH:HC) Proposed FY
2004 Operating Budget
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the proposed FY 2004 University of Michigan Hospitals and
Health Centers' Operating Budget.
A ten-minute break followed, beginning at 3:00 p.m. Regent McGowan left the
meeting at 3:00.
Public Comments
The Regents reconvened at 3:10 p.m. and heard comments from the following
speakers, on the topics indicated: Chetly Zarko, alumnus, on transparency in creating a
new admissions process; Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown relationship for the
handicapped; David Noel, citizen and member of V.O.I.C.E., on trespassing by the poor
and homeless; Emily Russell and Chelsea Stroh, students and members of Anti-War
Action!, on the Army Institute for Collaborative Biotechnologies.
Comments Regarding Supreme Court Admissions Cases
President Coleman commented that this is the first meeting since the announcement
of the Supreme Court decision on June 23, 2003. She made the following statement:
I certainly believe that this is a watershed time fbr our country.  The
University of Michigan, and I was so proud of the University, has helped lead the
nation in a critical dialog and in a poweirful recommitment to the value of diversity.
The Supreme Court recognized what we as educators have long known, the educational
benefits of diversity in the classroom are vast. They have a ripple efect on every part
of American society, from corporations to our national defense. This year it's been a
real privilege for me to take the cases across the finish line. But my contribution is a
very small part of the monumental effort during the course of the litigation, including
Jim 3Duderstadt, Lee Bollinger, Nancy Canto;r Jeff Lehman, socia scientist Pat Gurin
and her faculty colleagues. Of course, I'mi reminded that this university's commitment
to di'versity has been long and deep, with many tireless leaders in the effort over
decades building the foundation on w hich we stand today.
Today I'd like to recognize the contriibutions of som e of the people who played
a role in that effort. Our general counsel, Marvin Krislov, led a spectacular legal team
with outside counsels John Payton and Maureen Mahoney. He was the architect of the
defense. The University committed to a vigorous public awareness effbrt as well, and
that was handled in-house by our communications team, and I've received so many


10




July Meeting, 2003


positive comments nationally about the skill and the expertise of that whole
communications team. Our alumni and our current students provided important
support. They shared their own voices as well as their personal experiences about
what makes a Michigan education so valuable. But above all, today, I want to
acknowledge the long-standing support of the University's Board of Regents, past and
present. That support has been unwavering, and without it we couldn't have led one of
the most important national debates of our lifetime.
There is much to do now. We've had a little time of celebration and that 's
been great, but we're already hard at work. We know the challenges are there. The
Supreme Court provided us with guidance about how to consider race as one of many,factors in selective admissions processes. And as a result, we're in the process now of
redesigning our undergraduate admissions program to comply with that ruling. We
will be ready for students who wish to apply to the University this autumn.
She then invited comments from the Regents.
Regent Deitch commented that "those of us who were in the Supreme Court that
day found it an incredible experience as Americans, to think that difficult, contentious
issues are resolved through thoughtful debate and interaction." He noted that President
Coleman had skillfully assumed leadership of the cause upon her arrival. He expressed
confidence that the University "will meet [coming] challenges wherever they'll be, and
I'm very proud to be associated with it."
Regent Maynard associated herself with Regent Deitch's comments. She thanked
President Coleman for her "articulate and strong leadership" as well as everyone else
who contributed to the case's success. She stated that she was particularly appreciative
of all of the amicus briefs that had been filed, which spoke to the national impact of the
cases. She agreed with Regent Deitch that this is a marker in a long process, with much
remaining to be done before racial inclusion is achieved. She paraphrased a report
about the case that had appeared in a recent issue of the Chronicle for Higher
Education, which stated that there is a need to embrace an expanded role for higher
education so that it works in partnership with primary and secondary educators to
improve the quality of education for poor children and children of color. It calls on
institutions to "redouble our efforts to ensure that everyone who enrolls in this
university experiences a rigorous, horizon-expanding and intellectually challenging
education and to make sure that every student learns about the struggles for full
inclusion in our democracy that have been a crucial part in our nation's history."
Regent Maynard said that "it is my hope and it is certainly my commitment that
everybody at the University is committed to taking on these challenges, because there is
much work to be done."
Regent White agreed with the remarks of Regents Deitch and Maynard. She noted
that in the preface of the book, The Shape of the River, by Derok Bok and William
Bowen, the authors compare Mark Twain's image of the Mississippi River as central to
the progress of our country, to the image of the flow of talent moving through the
higher education system, particularly that of underrepresented minorities. The image is
often compared to a pipeline, but rather than being straight, it bends and curves like the
shape of the Mississippi River. They note that the college admissions process and
educational experience are complex in a similar fashion to the shape of the Mississippi
River. "Surely," Regent White said, "We are looking to do more than just predict first


11




July Meeting, 2003


year grades and even graduation rates when we are looking to admit people to this
institution. It is the contributions that individuals make through their lives and the
broader impact of higher education on society as a whole that is finally most relevant."
Regent Taylor congratulated all members of the team who had brought this matter
to a successful conclusion and noted that former president Bollinger had "done a
magnificent job" in assembling the legal team and the amicus briefs. He expressed
pride at how successful the University had been in this effort.
Regent McGowan had pointed out in comments prepared prior to having left the
meeting that moments after the announcement of the decision an observation had been
made that the country was fortunate that the defense of the use of race as a contributing
factor in admissions to colleges and universities had fallen to the University of
Michigan, due to the University's commitment, achievements, resources, and will to
sustain and succeed in this effort. She thanked everyone involved for the broad array of
research, skills, and personal commitment brought to this effort, concluding that "It has
been a long and remarkable road--and I am proud to have been a part of it." The
complete text of these comments is on file in the Office of the Vice President and
Secretary of the University.
Vice President Krislov acknowledged the contributions of University staff and
outside counsel who had been involved in the litigation throughout the process. He also
thanked the Regents for their steadfast support.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit, and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and received information on three topics: the economic
impact of the Supreme Court decision; M-Care financial performance; and recent internal
audits.
Compensation and Personnel Committee.       Regent Maynard noted that
following last month's executive session, the committee had concluded its evaluation of
President Coleman which had resulted in a very positive appraisal of her first year in
office. She said that the committee would be meeting with President Coleman in
September to set the agenda for the coming academic year.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of June 19, 2003.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report; the
Plant Extension Report; the Regents Quarterly Report on Non-Competitive Purchases
over $5,000 from Single Sources, March 16-June 15, 2003; and the Human Resources
and Affirmative Action Report. He noted that for the first time in three years,
marketable securities have shown a positive trend. He also pointed out that there were
no non-competitive purchases over $5,000 for the period covered in this report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.


12




July Mleeting, 2003


IResearch Report.     Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, June 1 - June 30, 2003.
University of Michigan Health System.           Interim  Executive Vice President
Greenfield noted that U.S. News and World Report would soon be announcing that the
University of Michigan Hospitals is included in the list of the top ten hospitals in the
country.
Division of Student Affairs. No additional report was submitted
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported that the past year
had been an upbeat year at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, despite the difficult
fiscal situation. He described several ongoing projects on campus and reported on other
newsworthy events.
University of Michigan-Flint. There was no additional report from the Flint
campus.
Michigan     Student Assembly -Report. President Coleman pointed out the report
on campus climate issues that had been submitted by Michigan Student Assembly and
noted the president had been present earlier but had been unable to remain at the
meeting.
Volunatary Support. Vice President May commented that the final report for the
2002-2003 fiscal year would be presented at the September meeting. He noted that
preliminary information indicates that private support for FY 2003 had increased by
9.4% and that individual giving had increased by 14%.
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
He called attention to recommendations for the appointment of Evan Caminker as dean
of the Law School and recommendations for four appointments to distinguished
university professorships, which represent the highest honor that a faculty member can
receive.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effkctive on the dates indicated
Bushman, Brad J., Ph.D., Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
Eaton, Kathryn A., D.V.M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Comparative Veterinary Pathology, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure, Medical
School, August 1, 2003
Kelch, Robert P., M.D., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
September 15, 2003
Keoleian, Gregory A., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, September 1, 2003
Koch, Alisa E., M.D., Frederick G. L. Huetwell and William D. Robinson, M.D., Professor of
Rheumatology and Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Metcalf, Barbara D., Ph.D., Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History and Professor of History,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
Musch, David C., Ph.D., Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2003
Ng, Serena, Ph.D., Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003


13




July Meeting, 2003


Parson, Edward A., Ph.D., Professor of Law, Law School, and Associate Professor of Natural Resources
and Environment, School of Natural Resources and Environment, September 1, 2003
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Cao, Yue, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 17, 2003
McLaughlin, Vallerie V., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 17, 2003
Moghaddam, Mahta, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2003
Savari, Serap, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2004
Sun, Jing, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2003
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alexander, Lois, Chair, Department of Music and Art, U-M Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Howard, June M., Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Kachhal, Swatantra K., Chair, Department of Industrial Manufacturing Systems Engineering, U-M
Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
Kaufman, Martin, Chair, Department of Earth and Resource Science, U-M Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
Kunkel, Steven L., Associate Dean for Biological Sciences and Life Sciences Initiatives, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Meares, Henry O., Assistant Dean, School of Education, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2006
Myers, Steven, Chair, Department of Biology, U-M Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 1-December 31, 2003
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bozer, Yavuz, A., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, also appointed Ford Motor Company Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber
Manufacturing Institute, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2007
Cope, Virgil, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Chemistry, U-M
Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Croley, Steven P., Professor of Law, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs,
Law School, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2005
Francis, Anthony H., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Associate Vice President for Research, Office of the Vice President for Research, also
appointed Director, Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project, Office of the Vice President for
Research, June 21, 2003
Gombosi, Tamas I., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure and Professor
of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Atmospheric,
Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of Engineering, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Hume, Richard I., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, also
appointed Chair, Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Parfitt, Bruce, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Biology,
U-M Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Pearson, Sheryl S., Associate Professor of English Language, Literature, and Communications, with
tenure, also appointed Interim Associate Dean, U-M Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Reece, James S., Professor of Accounting and Operations Management, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, also appointed Goff Smith Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber Manufacturing
Institute, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004


14




July leeting, 2003


Simons, Patricia, from Associate Professor of the History of Art and Women's Studies, with tenure, to
Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003
Worch, Eric A., Assistant Professor of Education, also appointed Chair, Department of Education, U-M
Flint School of Education and Human Services, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
Wrobel, Thomas, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Psychology, U-M Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Dierker, Steven B., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, leave
without salary extended
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING         PROFESSORSHIPS
AND     SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINIST         TIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming an Established Named Professorship
From Arthur Anderson Professor of Computer and Information Systems to Accenture Professor of
Computer and Information Systems, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2003
Renaminig an Established Colle iate ____roe__ oip
From John P. Kirscht Professorship in Public Health to Thomas Francis Collegiate Professorship in
Public Health, School of Public Health, August 1, 2003
Establishing Endowed Professorships
Henry and Mala Dorfman Family Professorship in Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Medical School,
July 17, 2003
Gayle Halperin Kahn Professorship in Integrative Medicine, Medical School, July 17, 2003
OTHR PERSONN EL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
App ointments to Colle giate Professorshis
Kaplan, George A., Thomas Francis Collegiate Professor of Public Health, School of Public Health,
August 1, 2003-July 31, 2008
Lewis, Earl, Elsa Barkley Brown and Robin D. G. Kelley Collegiate Professor of History and African
American and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Markovits, Andrei S., Karl W. Deutsch Collegiate Professor of Comparative Politics and German
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Velleman, J. David, G.E.M. Anscombe Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Appointm ents o Dislu  ished Prof. o
Ellsworth, Phoebe C., Frank Murphy Distinguished University Professor of Law and Psychology, Law
School, September 1, 2003
Ginsburg, David, James V. Neel Distinguished University Professor of Internal Medicine and Human
Genetics, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Scott, Rebecca J., Charles Gibson Distinguished University Professor of History, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
Sheng, Bright, Leonard Bernstein Distinguished University Professor of Music, School of Music,
September 1, 2003
Apointments to Endowed Profe.orsi s_
Boxer, Laurence A., Henry and Mala Dorfman Family Professor of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology,
Medical School, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2008
Davis, Gerald F., Jack D. Sparks - Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of Business
Administration, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2005


15




July Meeting, 2003


Gregerson, Linda K., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Lehavy, Reuven, Bank One Corporation Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Muir, Dana M., Lois and Myrtle Moskowitz Research Professor of Business and Law, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Sanchez-Burks, Jeffrey, Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Stoler, Ann Laura, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Stoljar, Daniel, Marshall M. Weinberg Endowed Distinguished Visiting Professor of Philosophy, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2004
Woo-Cumings, Meredith, Korea Foundation Professor of Korean Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Appointments to Named Professorships
Alibegovic, Emina, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Krishnamurthy, Muthukrishnan, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Levinsohn, James A., J. Ira and Nicki Harris Family Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2008
Onninen, Jani, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Tymoczko, Julianna, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
VanDieren, Monica M., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Reappjointents to Collegiate Profssorships
Cohen, David K., John Dewey Professor of Education, School of Education,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Johnson, Michael D., D. Maynard Phelps Collegiate Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Smoller, Joel A., Lamberto Cesari Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Reaoointments to Endowed Prokssorships
Gross, Samuel R., Thomas G. and Mabel Long Professor of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
MacKinnon, Catharine A., Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Miller, William lan, Thomas G. Long Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Reappointments to Named Professorships
Ashford, Susan J., Michael and Susan Jandernoa Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Cooper, Edward H., Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Fulton, William E., M. S. Keeler II Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2008
Hochster, Melvin, Robert W. and Lynn H. Browne Professor of Science, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Kaul, Gautam, John C. and Sally S. Morley Professor of Finance, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Kinnear, Thomas C., Eugene Applebaum Professor of Entrepreneurial Studies, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Krier, James E., Earl Warren DeLano Professor of Law, School of Law, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Prahalad, Coimbatore K., Harvey C. Fruehauf Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Severance, Dennis G., Accenture Professor of Computer and Information Systems, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Seyhun, Hasan Nejat, Jerome B. and Eilene M. York Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008


16




July Meeting, 2003


Skinner, Douglas J., KPMG Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Other Transactions
Andreasen, Michael, Assistant Dean and Director of Development, School of Business Administration,
August 11, 2003-August 31, 2006
Authorization for the President or the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs to
approve necessary appointments from August 1-31, 2003
Burns, Peggy, from Assistant Dean of Development and External Relations and Assistant Dean for
Communications and Marketing to Assistant Dean for Advancement, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2008
Caminker, Evan H., Dean, Law School, August 1, 2003
Ellison, Julie, from Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, to Professor of American
Culture, with tenure, and Professor of English Language and Literature, without tenure,
September 1, 2003
Ewing, Rodney C., from Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, and
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and
Professor of Geological Sciences, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to
Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, without tenure, Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of
Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004
Gosling, William A., from Director and Librarian to University Librarian, University Library, August 1, 2003
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Bauer, Patricia A., November 1, 2003-October 31, 2006, vice Kenneth B. May, term expired
Fitzgerald, Mark, November 1, 2003-October 31, 2006, vice Sharon L. Brooks, term expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Forman, Robert G., (alumni representative), reappointed, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selection Committee
Morley, George, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004, vice Robert V. Peterson, term expired
Medical School Executive Committee
Dunnick, N. Reed, August 1, 2003-August 31, 2004, vice John F. Greden, resigned from committee
Muraszko, Karin M., (Instructional Track Clinical Department), September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006,
vice John A. Williams, term expired
Ward, Peter A., (Chair, Preclinical Department), September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006, vice Robert F.
Todd, III, term expired
School of Natural Resources and Environment Executive Committee
Brown, Daniel G., retroactive, reappointed, June 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Nassauer, Joan I., retroactive, June 1, 2003-May 31, 2005, vice Robert E. Grese, term expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Little, Roderick J., September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006, vice David H. Garabrant, term expired
Robins, Thomas G., September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006, vice Carl F. Marrs, term expired
UM-Flint Citizens Advisory Conmittee
Spears, Julius, Jr., July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004, vice Roberto Villegas, relocated
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aanerud, Marian, M.S., Lecturer in Science, Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Adams, Robert J., M.Arch., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2007


17




July Meeting, 2003


Alozie-Arole, Chidinma, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Baumann, Gregory W., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
June 25, 2003-June 30, 2004
Bond, Erik C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Bulman, Luke T., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Burke, William M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Burrows, Heather L., Ph.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Collins, Peter A., M.S., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 2003
Cooper, Vaughn S., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2003
Dang, Long, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2006
Degroot, Elizabeth A. M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Dittmar, Amy K., Ph.D., Lecturer in Finance, June 1-August 31, 2003, and Assistant Professor of
Finance, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Dittmar, Robert F., Ph.D., Lecturer in Finance, June 1-August 31, 2003, and Assistant Professor of
Finance, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Eagleton, Matthew J., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Ealovega, Mark, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Eckhardt, Boris, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Eisenberg, Diane E., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, June 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Ewer, Steven, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Fortson, Benjamin, IV., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Gandhi, Dheeraj, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Gira, Amy K., M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Goldberg, Alan D., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
June 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Gruis, Kirsten L., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Hartman, John J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2003
Hawley, Patrick J., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Hess, David W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Law, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006, and Lecturer in Business Law, School of Business
Administration, July 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Hong, Kaleford, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Horwitz, Jill R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Inampudi, Prasuna, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Kamat, Vineet R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Kennedy, Robert E., Ph.D., Clinical Professor of Business Economics, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Killough, Kevin, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Koay, Thomas, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Krutikov, Mikhail, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Kumao, Heidi, M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
La Fountain-Stokes, Lawrence M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant
Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Lukela, Jennifer, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Mason, George P., M.A., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Matejka, Michal, Ph.D., Lecturer in Accounting, School of Business Administration, June 1-August 31,
2003, and Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006


18




July Meeting, 2003


Nikels, Susan, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Pelletier, Shawn J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Pottow, John A. E., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Prabhakar, Avinash, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Rowden, Stephanie, M.A., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Roy, Anindya K., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Rozinski, Thomas G., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Salisbury, Linda, M.B.A., Lecturer in Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
January 1, 2004-April 30, 2006
Sanford, Melanie S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Sarkar, Subrata, M.B.B.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Schwarz, Bill, B.A., Lecturer I in International Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2003
Shammout, Brad A., D.O., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Siebenthal, Sharman, Ph.D., Lecturer in Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Singal, Bonita M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
June 25, 2003-June 30, 2004
Srivastava, Sunita, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology and Clinical Assistant Professor of
Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Stoffel, Elena, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Takahashi, Satoru, M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Urbancic, Richard J., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Ward, Brent B., D.D.S., Lecturer in Oral Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Wilhelm, Kenneth, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Winfree, Jason A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Dvision of Kinesiology,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2007
Xue, Hui, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Ybasco, Albert, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Yoon, Esther, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Zelenock, Jennifer A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Zubrzycki, Genevieve, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Arenas, Juan D., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
May 16, 2003-August 31, 2004
Arruda, Airton O., from Lecturer to Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Felt, Barbara T., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, February 14, 2003-July 31, 2004
Kartha, Ninith V., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-July 31, 2004
McDaniel, Raymond C., from Lecturer II in Sweetland Writing, Lecturer II in English Language and
Literature, and Lecturer II in Lloyd Hall Scholars Program to Lecturer II in Sweetland Writing and
Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2003
Munoz, Juan A., from Lecturer II in the Office of International Programs to Lecturer II in Romance
Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2003
Myers, David A., from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Pasquariello, Paolo, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006


19




Jurly Mii~eetinlg,  2003


Ramaswamy, Sumathi, from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, Associate Professor of Asian
Languages and Cultures, without tenure, and Interim Director, Center for South and Southeast
Asian Studies to Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Interim Director, Center for
South and Southeast Asian Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Schneider, Monica P., from Lecturer to Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
June 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Jenkins, Janice M., Professor Emerita of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Professor
Emerita of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering, May 1-June 30, 2003
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, May 1-August 31, 2003
Paul, Ara G., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Pharmacognosy, College of Pharmacy, July 1,
2003-June 30, 2004
Robinson, Emerson, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Sisson, James C., Professor Emeritus of Radiology, Medical School, June 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Thompson, Norman W., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Turcotte, Jeremiah G., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Zald, Mayer N., Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor
Emeritus of Social Work, School of Social Work, and Professor Emeritus of Business
Administration, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Beck, Astrid B., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, personal leave, July 1-December 31, 2003
Berent, Stanley, Professor of Psychology, Department of Psychiatry, with tenure, and Professor of
Psychology, Department of Neurology, without tenure, Medical School, Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Psychology, without
tenure, School of Public Health, retirement furlough, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Brower, Kirk D., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2002
Charles, Kerwin K., Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, and Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Chodacki, Deborah S., Associate Professor of Music (Clarinet), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Collins, Derek B., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Corcoran, Mary E., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor of Social Work, with tenure,
School of Social Work, and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Cortina, Lilia M., Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor of Women's Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Daugherty, Michael K., Professor of Music (Composition), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Dominguez, Kathryn M., Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, and Associate Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Duan, Cunming, Associate Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Einhorn, Martin B., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Eley, Geoffrey H., Sylvia Thrupp Collegiate Professor of Comparative History and Professor of History,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1,
2003-May 31, 2004
Florida, Nancy K., Professor of Indonesian Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004


20




July Mleeting, 2003


Goel, Subhash C., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Goodenough, Elizabeth N., Lecturer III in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Goodrich-Weng, Linda D., Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Green, Thomas A., John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure,
Law School, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
outside teaching leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Haefner, Hope K., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 2003
Harrington, Helen L., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Hollingsworth, Leslie D., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Holoshitz, Joseph, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, July 1, 2002-June 30, 2003
Jackson, John E., James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science and Professor of Political Science,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Business Administration,
wtihout tenure, School of Business Adminisrtation, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31,
2004
Kaplan, Stephen, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Keane, E. Webb, Jr., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Kirshner, Andrew J., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, and Assistant Professor of Art and
Design, School of Art and Design, duty off campus, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Klinkman, Michael S., Associate Professor of Family Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, May 1-June 30, 2003, and September
1-October 31, 2003
Kocher, Claudia S., Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Kossoudji, Sherrie A., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Laine, Richard M., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate
Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
MacCormack, Sabine G., Mary Ann and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professor for the Study of Human
Understanding, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2002-May 31,
2003
Madden, Carolyn, Lecturer III in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Mengozzi, Stefano, Assistant Professor of Music (Musicology), School of Music, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Meyer, William, J., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Letters,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Moje, Elizabeth B., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Morag-Levine, Noga, Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, outside teaching leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Pace, Gary L., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Letters,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Pinch, Adela N., Associate Professor of English Language and Literatures and Women's Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1,
2003-May 31, 2004
Rabideau, Michelle L., Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine, Medical School, family medical leave,
June 10-June 30, 2003
Reinhardt, Steven K., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Richardson, Virginia, Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2004


21




July Meeting, 2003


Scobey, David M., Associate Professor of Architecture, without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman School of
Architecture and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Scott, Julius S., III, Lecturer II in Afroamerican and African Studies and Lecturer in History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, medical leave, January 23-June 30, 2002
Shapiro, Brahm, Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure,
Medical School, extended sick leave, March 21, 2002-October 15, 2003
Siefert, Kristine A., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Skinner, Christopher M., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2003, and duty off
campus, Jaunary 1-May 31, 2004
Songer, Nancy B., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Spencer, Michael, Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2004
Squatriti, Paolo, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Romance
Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Steinmetz, George P., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Germanic Languages and Literatures, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Turner, Dennis F., Clinical Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, administrative leave, January
1-December 31, 2004
Varshney, Ashutosh, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Vining, Joseph, Harry Burns Hutchins Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure,
Law School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Waggoner, Lawrence W., Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, outside teaching leave, January 1-June 30, 2004
Westen, Peter K., Frank G. Millard Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
research leave, January 1-May 31, 004
White, James B., L. Hart Wright Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, and Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Achen, Christopher H., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2003
Akerley, Brian J., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, May 31, 2003
Bingham, Derek R., Assistant Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2003
Bommarito, Michael J., Clinical Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, June 13, 2003
Carlson, Christopher J., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Chan-Lau, Juan J., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, June 13, 2003
Chestek, Kenneth D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, June 30, 2003
Delbanco, Francesca B., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Dixon, Travis L., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2003
Feldman, Martha S., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, June 30, 2003
Flemming, Dexter K., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 13, 2003
Fox, Merritt B., Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, May, 31, 2003
Gerding, Gail A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2003
Goldstein, Richard A., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2003
Hammer, Peter J., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, May 31, 2003


22




July Mleeting, 2003


Harp, Nicholas A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2003
Hofweber, Thomas, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2003
Hsu, Frank K. Y., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 28, 2003
James, Sherman A., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, and Professor of
Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, June 30, 2003
Kirkpatrick, Garland P., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, June 30, 2003
Leavey, Sean F., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 20, 2003
Lehman, Jeffrey S., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, and Professor of Public Policy, without
tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, June 30, 2003
Lu, Biqing, Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 27, 2003
Munroe, Derwin S., Lecturer in Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, June 30, 2003
Malamud, Deborah C., James E. and Sarah A. Degan Professor of Law, and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, May 31, 2003
Moore, Kathleen A., Associate Professor Nursing, without tenure, UM-Flint School of Health
Professions and Studies, May 31, 2003
Mullin, Vildan, Clinical Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Osbeck, Mark K., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, June 30, 2003
Pollack, Harold A., Associate Professor of Health management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public
Health, July 31, 2003
Sakurai, Sharin Y., Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School, June 13, 2003
Smith, Ian A., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Swisher, Stephen A., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, September 30, 2003
Taylor, Bradley L., Lecturer I in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2003
Vees-Gulani, Susanne H., Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2003
Weiss, Carlos O., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Wintroub, A. Michael, Associate Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2003
Yee, John, Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Berger, Carl F., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, June 30, 2003
Cameron, Oliver G., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Drake, William D., Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, and Professor of Urban Technology and Environmental Planning,
without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, May 31, 2003
Fisher, Richard L., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, May 31, 2003
Marino, Joseph P., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, May 31, 2003
Pijanowski, Hiroko S., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, May 31, 2003
Pitt, Elaine, Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Taylor, James R., Professor of Marketing, with tenure, School of Business Administration, May 31, 2003
Abene, Michael V., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Anderson, Kenneth W., Lectuer in Otohinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Baker, Martha G., Lecturer in Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2003
Bichakjian, Christopher K., Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Cumming, Valerie M., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, June 30, 2003
Degnim, Amy C., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Esseesy, Mohssen, Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2003
Frazee, Richard W., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2003
Kahriman, Mustafa, Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Kim, Edsel U., Lectuer in Otohinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Leu, Kirsten M., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 27, 2003
Mihaescu, Mihaela B. R., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 2003


23




July Meeting, 2003


Neumann, Oliver, Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, June 30, 2003
Roh, Jae S., Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 2003
Rowley, Allan M., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, July 7, 2003
Scharf, Christoph, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Shelley, Elise M., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, May 31, 2003
Smith, Matthew J., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, July 6, 2003
Van't Veld, Klaas T., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Vettorello, Nancy E., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, June 30, 2003
Wang, Steven J., Lectuer in Otohinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY APPROVED
REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Gough, Maria E., Associate Professor of the History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003 (approved February 2003)
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for 6 retiring
faculty members. She noted that one of the retirees, Professor William Drake, had died
less than two weeks after retiring.
Provost Courant called attention to the retirement of Professor Carl Berger, former
dean of the School of Education.
Anita K. Barry, Ph.D., professor of linguistics in the College of Arts and
Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on May
31, 2003.
Professor Barry received her B.A. degree from Queen's College in 1965, her M.A.
degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1966, and her Ph.D. degree from the
University of Minnesota in 1973. She joined the University of Michigan-Flint faculty
as an assistant professor in 1975, and was promoted to associate professor in 1978 and
professor in 1987.
By developing a full range of undergraduate and graduate linguistics courses and a
linguistics minor, Professor Barry led the way in moving the English department from a
purely literary approach to a more comprehensive program.        She was an active
researcher who combined her scholarly expertise and classroom experience in two
highly regarded texts. From the proceeds of the first she funded the English Grammar
Book Award, which is given every semester to the top five students in each section of
the "Structure of English" course. She was also active in the Linguistic Society of
America, the American Dialect Association, and the Language and Law Association.
Professor Barry was very active in the University community. She served multiple
terms on the College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee, led the department's
first self-study, codified department policies, and was appointed department chair. In
addition, she headed the College of Arts and Sciences Task Force on Teaching, served
as director of the Law and Society Program, and participated in the development of the
master's degree program in education. Professor Barry instituted and directed the
College of Arts and Sciences' faculty colloquium series, edited the University of
Michigan-Flint Faculty Forum, and served on numerous advisory committees.
The Regents now salute this distinguished linguistic educator for her dedicated
service by naming Anita K. Barry professor emerita of linguistics.


24




July Meeting, 2003


Carl F. Berger, Ed.D., professor of education in the School of Education and
director of advanced technologies in the Collaboratory for Advanced Research and
Academic Technologies, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2003.
Professor Berger received his B.A. degree from the University of Denver in 1958,
his M.A. degree from Sacramento State College in 1966, and his Ed.D. degree from the
University of California-Berkeley in 1971. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an associate professor in 1972 and was promoted to professor in 1976.
Professor Berger's research has focused on the use of technology as a tool for
learning and for gathering and interpreting educational data. This research included
investigating how people learn with technology, using technology to make complex
subjects accessible, and implementing assessment tools to evaluate faculty and student
technology use. Professor Berger was co-principal investigator on the Visible Human
Project, which is a detailed, digital anatomical database of the human body that helped
usher in the use of virtual anatomical tools. He taught many courses, including science
teaching methods, technological capabilities, research methods in cognition and
technology, and educational software design and authoring. He also held a number of
administrative positions, including associate dean for research in the School of Education
(1979-82), dean of the School of Education (1983-88), director of instructional technology
in the Information Technology Division (1989-99), and director and academic liaison in
the Office of the Chief Information Officer from 1999-01. In 2000, he was appointed
director of advanced academic technologies in the Collaboratory for Advanced Research
and Academic Technologies.
In 1979, Professor Berger was named "Michigan Science Educator of the Year" by
the National Association for Research in Science Teaching. He also received the
Distinguished Contributions to Science Education through Research Award in 1996 and
the first EDUCAUSE Award for Leadership in Information Technology in 2001.
The Regents salute this distinguished teacher, scholar, and administrator by
naming Carl F. Berger professor emeritus of education.
Oliver G. Cameron, M.D., Ph.D., professor of psychiatry, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 2003.
Dr. Cameron received his B.A. degree from the University of Notre Dame in 1968
and his Ph.D. and M.D. degrees from the University of Chicago in 1972 and 1974,
respectively.  After completing a medical internship, psychiatric residency, and
fellowship at the University of Michigan from 1974-79, he joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1979. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1986 and professor in 1992.
Dr. Cameron has had a distinguished and productive research career that has led to
internationally recognized accomplishments. He combined his medical background in
psychiatry with his education in biopsychology to add new and important perspectives
on the biology and psychology of visceral sensory-perceptual professes. He is the
author of over 80 published manuscripts, a book, and important book chapters. In
addition to his research, Dr. Cameron has earned a reputation as an effective teacher, as
shown by his selection as Teacher of the Year in 1983-84. He has also held key
leadership positions in the Department of Psychiatry, including division director for
adult ambulatory services and hospital services, chief of adult services, and associate
chair and chair of the department's Appointments and Promotions Committee. He is a
fellow of the American Psychiatric Association and has been elected president of the


25




July Meeting, 2003


American Psychosomatic Society and a member of the Michigan Psychiatric Society
Council.
Dr. Cameron has been a productive and innovative research scientist, a
highly-skilled clinician and administrator, a devoted and beloved teacher, a public
policy leader, and an internationally recognized scholar. He has also been a strong
advocate for enhancement of mental health services and parity in the state of Michigan.
The University of Michigan and the field of psychiatry have benefited enormously from
his contributions.
The Regents now salute this distinguished member of the faculty for dedicated
service by naming Oliver G. Cameron professor emeritus of psychiatry.
William D. Drake, Ph.D., professor of resource planning and conservation in the
School of Natural Resources and Environment, and professor of urban, technological
and environmental planning in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2003.
Professor Drake received his B.S.E., M.B.A., and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1959, 1960, and 1964, respectively. He joined the University
of Michigan faculty in 1964 as an associate research engineer at the Institute of Science
and Technology. He was appointed assistant professor in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment in 1966, and was promoted to associate professor in 1967
and professor in 1970. He was appointed professor of urban, technological and
environmental planning in 1991, and from 1989-00 he was also professor of population
planning and international health (later changed to environmental and industrial health)
in the School of Public Health.
A creative and inspired leader, Professor Drake established the innovative Ph.D.
program in urban, technological, and environmental planning in the early 1970s. He
served as director of this program and mentored outstanding Ph.D. students, many of
whom now hold prestigious positions in academe, the government, and the private
sector. Along with colleagues in the areas of natural resources, public health, and
architecture, Professor Drake established vital teaching and research collaborations, the
most dramatic of which was the Population-Environment Program, which evaluated the
interaction among environmental issues, human health, and society.
As director of the Community Systems Foundation in Ann Arbor, Professor Drake
provided area students with excellent opportunities to research important resource,
health, and transportation problems. He was also one of the key developers of the Ann
Arbor Transportation Authority and its ground-breaking "Dial-a-Ride" program.
The Regents salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by naming
William D. Drake professor emeritus of resource planning and conservation and
professor emeritus of urban, technological and environmental planning.
Hiroko S. Pijanowski, professor of art in the School of Art and Design, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 2003.
A native of Japan, Professor Pijanowski received her B.A. degree in Japanese
history from Rikkyo University in Tokyo, Japan in 1964, and following special study at
California State University-Northridge, she received her M.F.A. degree from the
Cranbrook Academy of Art in 1968. From 1974-78, she was an instructor at Purdue
University in jewelry and metalwork. Professor Pijanowski joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1978 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1983 and professor in 1986.


26




July Meeting, 2003


As a jewelry designer and metalsmith, Professor Pijanowski's work has gained her
national and international prominence. A recipient of two National Endowment for the
Arts awards, she was also recently inducted into the prestigious American Craft
Council's College of Fellows. This annual award, based on peer election, recognizes
distinguished members of the craft community who have made major contributions in
their fields. A designation of American Craft Council fellow signifies an artist of
outstanding ability with at least 25 years experience in his or her field.
Professor Pijanowski's distinguished career as a practicing artist enabled her to be
an extraordinary teacher who continues to receive notes of thanks from previous
students. Her work has been displayed in numerous museum collections, including the
National Museum of American Art at the Smithsonian Institution; the National Museum
of Modern Art in Kyoto, Japan; the Art Gallery of Western Australia; the Danner
Collection in Munchen, West Germany; and the Barbara Rockefeller collection in New
York. Her work has also been shown at the Detroit Institute of Art, and she frequently
served as a juror in the Ann Arbor Street Art Fair. Many of Professor Pijanowski's
works have been published in books, magazines, and newspapers, both nationally and
internationally.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Hiroko S. Pijanowski
professor emerita of art.
Michael J. Schneider, Ph.D., professor of biology in the College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on
June 30, 2003.
Professor Schneider received his B.S. degree from the University of Michigan in
1960, his M.S. degree from the University of Tennessee in 1962, and his Ph.D. degree
from the University of Chicago in 1965. He was a research associate at the U.S.
Department of Agriculture from 1965-67, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of
Wisconsin from 1967-68, and an assistant professor at Columbia University from
1968-73. Professor Schneider joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty as
an associate professor in 1973 and was promoted to professor in 1977.
Throughout his career, Professor Schneider's service to the University has been
broad and comprehensive. He served as chair of the Department of Natural Sciences
(1975-80, 1983-86, and 1987-90); associate provost (1990); and interim provost and
vice chancellor for academic affairs (1991). He also served as college ombudsperson,
chair of the Distinguished Leadership Awards Committee, vice chair of the Faculty
Senate, and member of the Faculty Senate Council. On the Ann Arbor campus, he
served on the Advisory Committee to the Vice President for Research, the Senate
Assembly, and the Faculty Grievance Review Board. In 1991, Professor Schneider was
presented the Best in Class award in recognition of his distinguished service.
Professor Schneider taught introductory courses for biology majors and
non-science majors in addition to advanced courses in his research specialty, plant
biology and plant physiology. His research centered on the plant pigments known as
phytochromes. Professor Schneider supervised undergraduate and graduate student
research projects, published numerous refereed journal articles, and made presentations
at national and international conferences.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and scholar for his dedicated
service by naming Michael J. Schneider professor emeritus of biology.


27




July Meeting, 2003


Memorials. No deaths of active faculty were reported this month. However,
President Coleman reported that Professor Paul Pintrich, professor of education and
professor of psychology, had died of a stroke the previous week at age 49.
Degrees.  Provost Courant submitted for approval the August 2003 doctoral
degree list, final degree lists for the May and June 2003 commencements, and approval
of changes to previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Sale of Gifted Real Estate
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents of the sale of property
located in the Cannon Bay Subdivision, Freeport, Grand Bahama.
Sale of Taxable Commercial Paper to Finance University Projects
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved an increase of up to $8.2 million in the amount approved to be
outstanding under the taxable commercial paper program. The amount approved to be
outstanding of the total commercial paper after this approval will increase to $92 million,
which is within the $120 million authorized.
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of ~10.0 million (approximately $16.5 million) from
the Long Term Portfolio to Highcross Regional U.K. Partners L.P.
Private Equity Investment (Charterhouse Capital Partners VII, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents approved
a commitment of up to ~20.0 million (approximately $23.0 million) from the Long Term
Portfolio to Charterhouse Capital Partners VII, L.P. Regent Deitch abstained from voting
due to a conflict of interest.
Private Equity Investment (M.D. Sass Financial Strategies, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $20.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio
to M.D. Sass Financial Strategies, L.P.
School of Public Health Buildings Renovation
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a revised project budget, from $70,000,000 to $68,500,000, and
authorized issuing the School of Public Health Buildings Renovation Project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.


28




July Meeting, 2003


Central Campus Recreation Building (CCRB) Kinesiology Basement Laboratory
Renovation
On a motion by Regent Richner, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Central Campus Recreation Building - Kinesiology Basement
Laboratory Renovation Project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Sleep Disorders
Center Expansion Project Leasehold Improvements
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC Sleep Disorders Center Expansion Project Leasehold
Improvements as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Taubman Health
Center Office Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC Taubman Health Center Office Renovation Project
as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Cardiovascular
Center Project- Phase I
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the UMHHC Cardiovascular Center Project - Phase I for
bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Depression
Center   and   Ambulatory   Psychiatry  New    Facility  and  Infrastructure
Improvements
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the (UMHHC) Depression Center and Ambulatory Psychiatry
New Facility and Infrastructure Improvements Project as described in the Regents
Communication, and authorized commissioning Albert Kahn Associates for its design.
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that UMHHC officials are very close to realizing
their fundraising goal for this project, and he commended them for their efforts.
Purchasing Agreement between the University of Michigan and Wright Medical
Technology
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Wright Medical Technology for hip
and knee implant systems. Because Dr. J. David Blaha is a University of Michigan
employee and is also a stockholder in Wright Medical Technology, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


29




Jurly Mii~eetinlg,   2003


1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Medical
School's Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Wright Medical Technology.
2.   The goods provided are knee and hip implant systems. The systems are to be provided
for the period beginning July 1, 2003 and ending June 30, 2005, for a total dollar
amount of $1,000,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. J. David Blaha, a University of
Michigan employee, is a stockholder in Wright Medical Technology.
Purchasing Contract between the University of Michigan and Xoran Technologies
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Xoran Technologies to assist Xoran
Technologies with continued development of a mini-CAT scanner and flat panel detector.
Because Neal Clinthome is both a University of Michigan employee and a stockholder in
and vice president of Xoran Technologies, this contract falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Technology Transfer and Xoran Technologies, Inc.
2.   The service provided is continued development of a mini-CAT scanner and flat panel
detector for a total dollar amount of $175,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Neal Clinthorne, a University of
Michigan employee, is a stockholder in and vice president of Xoran Technologies, Inc.
Purchasing Contract between the University of Michigan and Clark-MXR, Inc.
(Maintenance of Pumplasers)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Clark-MXR, Inc. for maintenance of
pumplasers purchased in 1997. Because Professor Gerard Mourou is both a University of
Michigan employee and a stockholder and board member of Clark-MSR, Inc., this
contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics and Clark-MXR, Inc.
2.   The service provided is maintenance and parts for pumplasers, for a total dollar
amount not to exceed $2,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Professor Gerard Mourou, a University
of Michigan employee, is a stockholder and board member of Clark-MXR, Inc.
Purchasing Contract between the University of Michigan and Clark-MXR, Inc.
(Scanning Optical Display Line)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a purchasing contract with Clark-MXR, Inc., for a scanning optical
display line for use in pump-probe experiments. Because Professor Gerard Mourou is
both a University of Michigan employee and a stockholder and board member of
Clark-MSR, Inc., this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The   following  information  is provided   in  compliance   with  statutory
requirements.
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Physics and Clark-MXR, Inc.
2.   The goods provided are a scanning optical display line for a total dollar amount of
$12,000.


30




Ju~ly Mleeting, 20033


3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Professor Gerard Mourou, a University
of Michigan employee, is a stockholder and board member of Clark-MXR, Inc.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Mobius Microsystems
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved an option agreement with Mobius Microsystems ("Mobius") for
several inventions developed and owned by the University of Michigan. Two of the
inventors, Richard B. Brown and Michael McCorquodale, are University of Michigan
employees who also are associated with Mobius Microsystems as a partial owner
(Richard B. Brown) and holder of an ownership interest (Michael McCorquodale).
Therefore, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Mobius
Microsystems.
2.   Contract terms include:
Field of Use: All Fields
Grant: Exclusive for 6 months
Option Fee: $3,000
Exercise: Prior to OTT entering into license negotiations with Mobius Microsystems,
the company will need to demonstrate:
i. an identified, committed, experienced and capable management team;
ii. an appropriate commercialization strategy;
iii. a capitalization plan indicating sufficient access to capital to enable the
commercialization plan to be executed.
The University will retain ownership of the optioned technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Brown and Mr. McCorquodale arise from their
ownership interest in Mobius Microsystems.  They have waived any personal
participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University from the company.
Research    Agreement between        the  University   of Michigan     and   Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan and
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. Because Drs. Brian Ross and Alnawaz Rehemtulla are both
owners of Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. and University of Michigan employees, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Molecular Therapeutics,
Inc.
2.   Under the project a total subcontract of approximately $1,156,026 is anticipated to
cover the period September 30, 2000 through September 29, 2003. The subcontract
was originally approved by the Regents in February 2001 for $871,000. This action
represents additional funding in the amount of $285,026. The University's standard
subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Brian Ross's and Alnawaz Rehemtulla's pecuniary interest arises from their ownership
interest in Molecular Therapeutics, Inc.


31




July Meeting, 2003


Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Sensicore, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved an amendment to a license agreement between the University of
Michigan and Sensicore, Inc. (originally known as SENSation), the purpose of which is to
clarify the definition of "Gross Non-Product Revenues" and to modify a milestone
obligation. Because Richard B. Brown is a University of Michigan employee and also
partial owner of Sensicore, Inc., this amendment falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Sensicore,
Inc.
2.   Contract terms include modification of a milestone date to give the company until June
30, 2004 to meet the original milestone regarding commercial shipment of Product.
The term "Gross Non Product Revenues" (Article 30.4) is amended to limit the scope
of consideration and revenues received by Sensicore in return for the transfer of rights
granted to Sensicore under Article 3 of the License Agreement. All other terms of the
license will remain unchanged.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Brown arises from his ownership interest in Sensicore.
He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University from the company.
Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) Annual Business Plan and Budget
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the Michigan Health Corporation (MHC) FY 2004 annual
business plan and budget.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 2004
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the following schedule of meetings for 2004.
January 15                    July 15
February 19                   September 23
March 18                      October 21 (Held at UM-Flint)
April 22                      November 18
May 20 (Held at UM-Dearborn)  December 16
June 17
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:20 p.m. The next
meeting will be held September 18, 2003.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


32




September Meeting, 2003


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 2003
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thurs day, Sepember 18, 2003
The Regents convened at 2:10 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May,
Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Deitch was absent.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and announced that Public
Comments would be the first order of business.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated:
Jim Mogensen, citizen, regarding "Town-Gown Relationship--Common Infrastructure;"
Chetly Zarko, alumnus, on "The Diversity Question;" and David Noel, citizen and
member of V.O.I.C.E. board of directors, on class discrimination against homeless and
poor people at the University of Michigan.
Comments from President Coleman
Update on Sexrual Assault Praevention and Education Activities. Following a
short break, President Coleman updated the Regents on the wide array of activities that
have been undertaken by the Office of the Vice President for Student Affairs and the
Athletic Department to educate students about sexual assault, dating and domestic
violence, and sexual harassment. These include programs held during summer orientation
for every first-year student, programs for every student living in the residence halls,
training for volunteer peer educators through the Sexual Assault Prevention and Crisis
Center (SAPAC), and intensified educational efforts for student athletes. She introduced
Dr. Kelly Cichy, director of SAPAC.
Executive  ie   resident       icfrc Affairs. President Coleman welcomed
Robert Kelch, who began his tenure as executive vice president for medical affairs on
September 15, 2003.
President Coleman highlighted a number of notable achievements that had
occurred throughout the University since the last meeting. She noted that former
president Gerald Ford was on campus for the dedication of the site of the new Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy Building. President Coleman commended plant and
facilities personnel, whose efforts were rewarded last week when the University
received the 2002 Energy Star Combined Heat and Power Award from the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy. She also called


33




September Meeting, 2003


attention to a three-month long, University-wide event, "Celebrating St. Petersburg,"
being held in observance of the tri-centennial of St. Petersburg, Russia.
Parking and Transportation Update
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that parking is one of the most
strategic investments made at the University, and this requires comprehensive, long-term
planning. He had asked Associate Vice President Henry Baier to present the strategic
parking and transportation plan.
Mr. Baier noted that about 4,000 faculty and staff members have been added to the
University since 1998, which has a significant impact on parking and transportation
programs. Fortunately, each person does not equate to a parking space since some
people use alternative transportation, some are in off-campus leased facilities, and some
work different shifts. In 1998 the parking and transportation departments were
combined, in recognition of a significant need for more remote parking and enhanced
transportation options. Incentives have been created for the remote parking options and
for encouraging busing and van pooling from home, as the University recognizes that it
cannot provide "at-the-door" parking for everyone.
Mr. Baier reviewed some of the more than 30 initiatives that have been put into
place since 1998, which include free van pools, increased bus services, and additional
leased parking spaces in outlying lots. These initiatives have resulted in 1,300 net new
"Blue" spaces and 1,300 net new remote spaces added in the previous 5 years. He
noted that the University bus system transports 4.5 million passengers per year and
described additional services available to employees who park in remote lots. In
partnership with the Ann Arbor Transportation Authority (AATA), free "Park and
Ride" lots are provided, which have been very successful in reducing the number of
vehicles coming onto campus. AATA provides bus transportation from these lots. In
addition, the University provides free AATA bus passes for employees who do not
purchase parking permits.
Other initiatives include "crunch" lots with free taxi service for "Blue" or "Gold"
permit holders who can't find parking spaces and subsidized van pools that are free to
users. As an additional incentive, free, 24-hour emergency cab service is provided for
those who use buses, van pools, or remote parking. The number of daytime spaces has
increased by providing off-site parking for contractors and free after-hours permits to
retirees.
Mr. Baier then turned to plans being made to increase the number of parking
spaces in the future. He noted that between 1998 and 2002, 1,300 net spaces were
added on the central and medical campuses. Between 2003-2007, there will be a
decrease of 1,030 spaces but an increase of 2,260, assuming future approval of two
proposed major new projects, one on Ann Street that would yield 500 spaces by 2005,
and another on Thompson Street, which would add about 440 spaces by 2007.
Mr. Baier reviewed annual rates for each of the four categories of permits. The
employee contribution for these permits ranges from $1,000 to $57, as opposed to
$1,260 charged by the City of Ann Arbor Downtown Development Authority for its
parking spaces. He noted that several options are being considered for funding of the
new Ann Street and Thompson Street parking decks, including increased employee


34




September Meeting, 2003


contributions and a review of the relationship between departmental and employee
contributions.
Mr. Baier noted that planning has also begun for possible parking options
beginning in 2008 and beyond. Items under consideration include building new parking
structures in as yet unidentified locations on North Campus, South Campus, and Wall
Street.
Although there continues to be a shortage of parking spaces, the parking crunch
should improve somewhat in 2004, and if the proposed new Ann Street and Thompson
Street structures are approved, 2,500 new "Blue" spaces will have been created between
1998 and 2007. Incentives will continue to be offered to increase participation in
remote parking options and alternative transportation programs.
Regent Newman asked if the plan presented today included visitor parking, and
Mr. Baier responded that the presentation data included only faculty and staff parking
spaces.
Executive Vice President Slottow introduced Pat Cunningham, director of Parking
and Transportation Services, who is retiring after having done an extraordinary job in
managing the unit's transition to a more system-wide focus on these issues.
Committee Reports
Finance, udit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning with Erik Lundberg to receive information regarding the
University's investment portfolio and with PricewaterhouseCoopers for a review of the
recently completed audit. They also held a discussion about the Sarbanes-Oxley
legislation and what other universities across the country are doing in response.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard commented that the
committee had set its schedule for the year and is currently reviewing information on
various models that could be used for presidential evaluation.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of July 17, 2003.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report and
noted that the annual investment report and performance would be discussed next
month. He also submitted the Plant Extension Report and commented that the Life
Sciences Institute had opened, on time and on budget, on September 15, and he
submitted the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report. Regent McGowan
commented that the Life Sciences Institute is "fantastic" and complimented everyone
involved in its planning and construction, with a special note of thanks to Marina
Roelofs, Director of Plant Extension, for her leadership on this effort.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, July 1 - August 31, 2003. He then announced that in 2003 the University's


35




September Meeting, 2003


total research expenditures amounted to $749 million, an increase of more than 14%
($94 million) over the previous year, and the highest ever total dollar increase. He
noted that half of the total increase is in the biomedical or life sciences area. He gave
brief descriptions of four of the largest research projects and reported on the activities
of a student research project under the auspices of the Undergraduate Research
Opportunity Program (UROP). Vice President Ulaby also reported that for the first
time, the University of Michigan is among the top ten institutions nation-wide in the
impact of technology transfer in the life sciences.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Kelch said
that he is pleased to be attending the meeting with his new colleagues and looked
forward to the time ahead.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper reported that "Welcome
Week" and move in had been very successful, with 9,500 students having moved into
the residence halls. She described several events done in conjunction with Welcome
Week:   "Artscapade," "Escapade," "Community Plunge," and "Festifall."  She
introduced Susan Wilson, director of the Student Activities Leadership Program, and
Eric Aronson, an alumnus and former MSA president who has been providing in-kind
services and funding for the leadership program.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported that the highlight
of the start of the school year had been the newly-established first-year incoming
student convocation. About 350 first-year students, 400 parents, and more than 80
faculty members participated. He also commented that enrollment on the Dearborn
campus increased 3.4% over the previous year to about 9,000 students and that a large
portion of the increase was in graduate programs. He noted that the purchase of the
Fairlane Training and Development Center had been concluded and that renovations are
underway.
University Residence Halls. Regent Newman inquired when the report on
residence halls would be presented. Vice President Harper responded that she was
hoping to be able to present it in November 2003 and that the report would include
options for renovations and additional halls, along with financial models. It was noted
that a consultant had been hired and that the November report would include a
discussion of the consultant's findings. The review has taken a long time because of the
fact that the housing system is complex, expensive, and aged. There are also a number
of components that need to be examined, including dining services and the private
residential "North Quad" development. All options are being explored, including new
construction and renovation.
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that there has been extensive
outreach to students, student groups, staff, and faculty who will be affected by the
study's recommendations. He noted also that a great deal of detailed financial and
operational data is being collected. Regent Newman said that she hopes the report will
include data on the residence hall amenities provided at institutions with whom we
compete for students. Vice President Harper responded that the report will be a
comprehensive overview.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas commented that, as expected,
enrollment on the Flint Campus has dropped by 4%, although revenue has dropped only
36




September Meeting, 2003


by 300. He noted that every year, a faculty member is selected to be the senior advisor
to the chancellor, and introduced the current holder of this position, Professor Ricardo
Alfaro. Chancellor Mestas observed that despite the loss of funding, the campus is
doing very well and the quality of education has not suffered.
Michigan Student Assembly Report.             MSA    president Angela Galardi updated
the Regents on projects planned by           MSA     for the coming     year.    These include
off-campus housing issues, changing the timing of spring break, and bringing the
"Entree Plus" program back into Michigan Stadium and other athletic venues, among
other projects. She also noted that students are working on actions they can take to
improve inappropriate behavior towards fans by students on football days. Finally, she
commented that she is holding discussions with the student body presidents on the
Dearborn and Flint campuses to work out a means by which they would have
opportunities to address the Board.
President Coleman complimented Ms. Galardi and MSA for having organized a
very successful vigil in remembrance of the events that had occurred on September 11,
2001.
Voluntary     Support.     Vice   President May      submitted   Reports on     Voluntary
Support for June, July, and August, 2003, including a report for Fiscal Year 2002-2003.
Voluntary support for 2002-03 totaled $183,895,000, an increase of 9.40o. Individual
giving represented the largest category of increase at 14%, and corporate and
foundation support rose 1.7%.
Julne 2003:
ACCESS, Dearborn
for the Hannan Assistance Fund in the Medical School...................................... S 10,000
Keith and Valerie Alessi Living Trust
for support in the School of Business Admninistration........................................ 25,000
Robert L. Alexander Estate
for the Civil Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering.................................. 15,000
Thomas E. Alford, Jamaica, New York
for the Thomas E. Alford Scholarship in the School of Information............................. 17,000
Marjorie Alpern Trust
5,000 shares of Comnmercial Federal Corporation common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Fund in the Medical School................................. 110,925
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics................................................ 100,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and support in the Medical School and in
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the A rts...................................  246,475
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Department of Kinesiology and the Medical School......................... 143,855
American Israel Education Fund, Troy
for the MBS Israel Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration...................... 173,968
Arthur W. Angood, Battle Creek
for the Arthur W. Angood Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education............................................................... 25,000
Judith L. Angood, Battle Creek
for the Judith L. Angood Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education.............................................................. 25,000
Russell L. Anmuth, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................1 0,000
Hugh M. Archer, Dearborn
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 10,000
Patricia Arden Trust
for the Patricia Joy Arden Scholarship in the School of Music................................. 12,000


37




September Meeting, 2003


Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 76,333
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 20,000
Atlantic Philanthropies, Inc., New York, New York
for support at the University of Michigan............................................. 342,000
Automotive Lighting, Reutlingen, Germany
for support in the Transportation Research Institute...................................... 14,980
Aventis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Bridgewater, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School.....................................................  100,000
Ruth Hickman Baker, Wilmington, Delaware
963 shares of SBC Communications, Inc., common stock
for the Frank H. Baker Scholarship in the School of Business Administration...................... 25,678
Lillian M. Baklarz, Allen Park
1,484 shares of National City Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Lillian M. Baklarz Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the John T. and Lillian McFarland Endowment Fund in the Life Sciences Institute................ 100,560
Ralph B. Baldwin, Naples, Florida
for the Ralph B. Baldwin Professorship in Astronomy in
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 50,000
Lawrence S. Bartell Trust
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 50,000
Barbara Baugh, San Antonio, Texas
for scholarships in the School of Music..............................................12,000
Robert A. Beebe, Birmingham
for the Robert and Katherine Beebe Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning............................ 10,000
Roger A. Berg, Short Hills, New Jersey
for the Roger A. Berg, M.D. Radiology Fund in the Medical School........................... 20,000
Bernard Bergen Memorial Foundation, Alpine, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 10,000
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint......................................... 10,000
Bohlen Real Estate Corporation, Brighton
for support in the Museum of Art...................................................... 12,000
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
for the William and Dolores Brehm Fund in the Medical School............................ 1,000,000
Sharon and Frederick Brubaker Fund of the Ayco Charitable Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for the James W. Richards Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy............................ 12,500
Burroughts Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 35,000
Cairn Foundation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the School of Music................................................. 10,000
Jerry Capizzi, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 10,000
Caterpillar Foundation, Peoria, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering and the School of Business Administration.............. 103,000
Centerpulse Dental, Inc., Carlsbad, California
for research in the School of Dentistry.................................................. 25,000
Chisbetts Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music..................................................... 12,000
Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the College of Engineering........................................... 50,000
Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Detroit
3,600 shares of Altria Group, Inc., common stock
for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship at the University of Michigan, and
the Ralph G. Conger, Jr. Scholarship in the School of Business Administration and
for support in University Library and the University Musical Society........................ 0,073
Corvas International, San Diego, California
for research in the Medical School................................................... 50,000
William M. Cutler, Glen Arbor
1,000 shares of McDonald's Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Medical School in memory of William Wilkinson, M.D., and
for support in the School of Nursing................................................ 11,360
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School........................................... 77,696
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and
for employee matching gifts........................................................ 75,090
38




September Meeting, 2003


Mark Foote Dalton, Garden City, New Jersey
for the nmark Foote Award in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 80,000
Dale K. Dedrick Trust
for the William S. Smith Endowed Fund for Excellence in the Medical School.................... 0,000
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
for support in the School of Dentistry..................................................... 687332
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for support in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................. 12,558
Bill and Molly Dobson Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Hunter Dobson Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women,
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine and the College of
Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the University Musical Society....................................................... 29,000
DTE Energy, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......................................... 20,000
C. W. Driver Contractors, Pasadena, California
for the Tyler J. Roberts Scholarship in the School of Music................................... 25,000
Doris 'Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for the University Musical Society....................................................... 40,000
Engle Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sylvia "Duffy" Engle Graduate Student Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................  50,000
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 60,743
ExxonMobil Foundation, Irving, Texas
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 74,211
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the E. Malcolm Field Research Fellowship in the Medical School.......................... 100,000
Charles Fisher, East Lansing
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................. 10,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 202,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support at the University of Michigan and for the University Musical Society............... 15625,333
William C. Ford Jr., and Lisa V. Ford Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane.................................................... 10,000
Four Friends Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Robert K. Shaye Fund in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 155,000
Stanley Frankel, Troy
for the MBS Israel Projects Fund in the School of Business Administration....................... 12,500
Agnes Gleysteen Fraser Estate
for the Dirk Vanderlinden Gleysteen Scholarship in the Medical School......................... 16,831
Fraternal Order of Eagles Michigan State Auxiliary, Lake
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 28,925
Fraunhofer USA, Plymouth
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................. 20,000
GE Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 59,875
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration............................ 20,000
General Motors Corporation, Phoenix Arizona
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................ 100,000
General Motors Foundation, Ann Arborl
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 27,015
Joanne R. Gerhart, Ann Arbor
for the Joanne R. Gerhart Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Department of Athletics and
for the Class of 1953 Fund in the Law School.............................................. 20,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for support in the School of Music....................................................... 50,000
Grand Aerie Fraternal Order of Eagles, Three Rivers
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 60,000
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation, Neew York, New York
for the Eugene and Emily Grant Funds in the Department of Kinesiology,
the Schools of Music and Natura1 Resources and Environment, and
the College of Literature, Litera ture, Science, and the Arts.................................... 90,000


39




September Meeting, 2003


John J. Guettler Trust
for the John J. and Emily S. Guettler Student Aid Fund in
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 1,000,000
HCA Foundation, Nashville, Tennesee
for the Harold T. and Vivian B. Shapiro Prize Fund in the School of Social Work................... 10,000
Hella KG, Hueck & Company, Lippstadt, Germany
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.......................................... 14,980
Barnett C. Helzberg, Jr., Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................  25,000
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research  in  the  M edical School.......................................................  38,200
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 205,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for support in  the Institute for Social Research..............................................  75,000
Hewlett Packard, Colorado Springs
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  30,000
H.U.G.S. for Brennen, South Lyon
for support in  the C. S. M ott Children's Hospital...........................................  10,000
Gregory A. Hummon Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for research  in  the  School of Dentistry.................................................... 1 0,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  15,000
Innologic Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for support in  the College of Engineering.................................................  10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  20,000
Invitrogen Life Technologies, Carlsbad, California
for support in  the  M edical School......................................................  109,573
Richard and Debbie Jelinek, Aspen, Colorado
for support in  the School of Public Health................................................  35,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research  in  the School of Public Health...............................................  194,671
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...........................................................  37,500
Just for Kids, Inc., Northville
for support in the Medical School and the University Hospitals...............................  11,732
Mark S. Kahn, Bloomfield Hills
for the Gayle Halperin Kahn Professorship in the Medical School............................ 100,000
Alex Karras, Sherman Oaks, California
for the Emiline Karras Fund in the Medical School.........................................  34,000
Alexander G. Karras and Susan Clark, Los Angeles, California
for the Emiline Karras Fund in the Medical School.........................................  15,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Medical School and
for the Michigan Journalism Fellowvs Program in
the Horace H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies.......................................  227,306
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the  U niversity  H ospitals...........................................................  14,852
Michael H. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Michael and Marcia Klein Research Fund in the Medical School........................ 50,000
Koito Manufacturing Company, Shizuoka-Ken, Japan
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.........................................  15,000
Reino S. Koivunen, Laurium
for the University  Alumni Association...................................................  10,000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for support in  the  M edical School......................................................   349,935
Andrew J. Krapohl, Lincoln
for the Krapohl Resident Research Fund in the Medical School............................... 10,000
Karin Larson, Pacific Palisades, California
for research  in  the  M edical School........10..............................................  1 0,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the School of Public Health and
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 90,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in
the Horace H. Rackham   School of Graduate Studies........................................  40,625


40




September Meeting, 2003


Ann and Robert H. Lurie Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies in
the School of Business Administration...............................................  1,000,000
Richard N. Maskell, Hampshire, Illinois
for support in  the School of Art and  Design............................................... 200,000
Henry L. Mason Trust
for support at the University  of M ichigan................................................. 10,655
J. P. McCarthy Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the J. P. McCarthy Fund in the Medical School......................................... 61,700
Turner McConnell Family Trust
1,798 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 10,198
James S. McDonnell Foundation, Saint Louis, Missouri
for support at the University  of M ichigan..................................................  59,112
Margaret C. Bond McKean Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 53,182
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
for the Harry H. Jones Fund in the School of Business Administration........................... 10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for scholarships in  the College of Engineering.............................................. 25,000
Ted A. Michael, Vero Beach, Florida
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................  10,000
Michigan Center for Early Christian Studies, New Baltimore
for the Near Eastern Studies Program and other support in
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 15,500
Leonard G. Miller, West Bloomfield
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Kellogg Eye Center..................... 12,000
Jeffrey H. Miro, Bloomfield Hills
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................... 20,000
Marcia A. Mootz Trust
for the R. T. and M. H. Garrett Fund in the Medical School............................... 10,000
Charles S. Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.............................................  35,450
Ruth Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint.............................................  62,400
Mi-Sun Mun, Ann Arbor
for the Mun-Keyes Fund in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 10,000
MSX International, Inc., Southfield
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.........................................  24,990
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in the M edical School......................................................  136,571
Ryusuke Nakaoka, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Dentistry................................................  25,090
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School.......................................................  50,00
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........................................ 45,566
New England Foundation for the Arts, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts
for the University Musical Society......................................................  10,800
Edward C. Olson, Fort Myers, Florida
3,000 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Edward and Joan Olson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Edward C. and Joan M. Olson Fund in
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 127,605
David and Lucille Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 125,000
George and Rebecca Peapples Foundation of the Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for the Class of 1963 Scholarship Fund in the School of Business Administration................. 10,000
Steven W. Percy, A'kron, Ohio
for the McGraw Foundation Fellowship Fund in the School of Business Administration............ 15,000
Bernard Petrie, San Francisco, California
for the Law School Building Fund in the Law School................................... 25,000
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the W. E. Bachmann Memorial Lecture Fund and other support in
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts...............................45,000
Philips International, B. V., Eindhoven, Netherlands
for support in the Transportation Research Institute....................15,000
Murray C. Pitt Trust
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................................................20,000
41




September Meeting, 2003


Prentice Foundation, Inc., Westport, Connecticut
for the Master's Project Program in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............. 12,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
85,000 par of various corporate bonds
for the John A. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering.......................................................... 98,582
Reflexite Corporation, Horsholm, Denmark
for support in the Transportation Research Institute......................................... 15,000
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 89,300
Doris J. Ressler Trust
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 30,000
Heerbert Ressler Trust
for research in the Medical School................................................... 25,000
Robert J. Rock, Birmingham
for support in the Department of Athletics.............................................. 50,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................16,680
David M. Roebuck, Bryan, Ohio
for support in the Department of Athletics............................................ 20,000
Katheryn B. Rosemurgy, Tampa, Florida
374 shares of BellSouth Corporation common stock
for the University Library........................................................ 10,053
Samuel I. Russell Trust
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 225,000
Margery H. Ruth Estate
for the Ada L. Hopkins Scholarship Funds in the School of Music and at
the University of Michigan-Flint...................................................... 30,180
Elizabeth M. Schmidt, Grosse Pointe Shores
for the Sid Gilman and Carol Barbour Lectureship in the Medical School....................... 25,000
Howard Schumir Estate
for the Howard Schumir Dean's Discretionary Fund in the College of Pharmacy................. 198,708
Science Applications International Corporation, San Diego, California
for research in the College of Engineering........................................... 25,000
Seremet Family Foundation, Potomac, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration..................................... 12,500
David E. Shaw, New York, New York
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................................... 25,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Women's Gymnastics Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 150,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Social Work.............................................. 100,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 20,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert E. Sloan Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Hill Auditorium Renovation Fund and
a cash gift for the University Hospitals............................................... 50,100
Alene M. Smith, Ann Arbor
for support in the Law School and the Museum of Art.................................... 15,275
Darryl L. and Virginia R. Snider Trust
2,000 shares of Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation common stock
for the Darryl and Ginny Snider Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............... 10,230
Solutia, Inc., Saint Louis, Missouri
for research in the Transportation Research Institute...................................... 10,000
Speckhard-Knight Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Speckhard-Knight Fund in the Medical School..................................... 30,000
Sprint Foundation, Overland Park, Kansas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration......................... 15,000
Elmer and Sylvia Sramek Charitable Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................................  75,000
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for support in the Transportation Research Institute....................................... 15,000
Victor L. Streeter, Ann Arbor
1,563 shares of McGraw-Hill, Inc., common stock
for the Victor L. Streeter Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering......................................................... 100,376


42




September Meeting, 2003


Jean Porter Stremnmel, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Jean P. Stremmel Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Jean Porter Stremmel Scholarship Fund............................................... 100,000
George Suzuki, Honolulu, Hawaii
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York, New York
for support in  the  M useum   of Art........................................................  13,814
John and Daniel Tishman Family Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the John L. Tishman Fellowship in the College of Eng ineering............................. 400,000
Richard F. Towner, Venice, Florida
125 shares of Proctor and Gable common stock
for the Richard and Eleanor Towner Charitable Gift Annuity for
the ultimate benefit of the University Library............................................... 11,468
Toyota Central R&D Laboratories, Inc., Nagakute, Japan
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................. 50,000
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 29,500
Trakya Cam Sanyii A. S. Otocam Fabrikasi, Kirklareli, Turkey
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.......................................... 14,975
Henry Trefz, Rock Island, Illinois
4,400 shares of General Electric common stock
for the Henry J. Trefz Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the University of Michigan............................................................. 33,864
2003 TRW Automotive Fund of the Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.......................................... 25,000
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Detroit
for research in the Transportation Research Institute......................................... 15,000
Bernard L. Vinson, Manhasset, New York
for the Bernard L. Vinson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the University Library................................................................. 25,000
Cleveland Walcutt Estate
for the Lucile Groff Endowed Chair in the Medical School.................................... 52,146
Gary T. Walther Trust
for the Harriett and John Walther Scholarship in the School of Business Administration............. 20,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 119,500
Jason G. Weiss, Pacific Palisades, California
for the Jason and Donna Weiss Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 20,000
Anne L. Welch Estate
for the Eva Grace (Miller) Welch Fellowship in the Medical School and
for the Paul S. Welch Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............ 200,000
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................. 20,000
Carolyn Westa Estate
for the Gilbert M. and Carolyn L. \Westa Library Fund in the -Law School........................ 50,000
Brenda S. Wickett, Dexter
770 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Ernest W. Wickett Men's Ice Hockey Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............ 24,898
Rita L. Willis, Tulsa, Oklahoma
2,632 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Rita L. Willis Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Sidney Morse Willis and Rita Louis Willis Endowment for the Life Sciences Institute........... 99,845
Ralph C. Wilson Foundation, Grosse Pointe Park
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 273,095
Nancy Upjohn Woodworth, Sanibel, Florida
8,123 shares of Monsanto Company common stock
for the Upjohn Woodworth Professorship in the Medical School.............................. 178,584
Thomas B. Woodworth, Sanibel, Florida
10,100 shares of Monsanto Company common stock
for the Upjohn Woodworth Professorship in the Medical School.............................. 222,049
Kathryn and Walter Wriston Family Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund
for the Robert E. and Carolyn B. Dineen Scholarship Fund and other support in the Law School...... 10,000
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel Zell and Robert H. Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies in
the School of Business Administration................................................. 1,00,000
Jon and Kathy Zeschin Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................ 10,000


43




September Meeting, 2003


The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Art of the Eye Delta Gamma Foundation, Columbus, Ohio
a watercolor painting by Mary Solbrig for the Medical School
Sally E. Baker, Ann Arbor
416 books on various subjects for the University Library
Paul M. Bronstein, Flint
electromechanical equipment for the University of Michigan-Flint
Hugh Cohen, Ann Arbor
one Toshiba projection television for the College of Literature, Literature, Science, and the Arts
Marvin Eisenberg, Ann Arbor
one Kurt Badt painting, a Jacques Villon etching and three Persian salt bags for the Museum of Art
Jeffrey E. Evans, Ann Arbor
two paintings by Ralph Iligan for the Museum of Art
William A. Gosling, Ann Arbor
items for the William A. Gosling Pop-up and Movable Books Collection for the University Library
Joel Greenisen, Ypsilanti
two paintings by Mary Solbrig for the Medical School
Tom Halstead, Birmingham
a Bill Schwab photograph for the Museum of Art
Benjamin Lev, Westbloomfield
a collection of books on various subjects for University of Michigan-Dearborn
Joan Meisel, New York, New York
"Six Negatives", work by Ian Burn and Mel Ramsden for the Museum of Art
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
86 copies of various Microsoft software for the College of Engineering
Christopher G. Millio, Adrian
two Theo Hios paintings for the Museum of Art
Fan Parker, Ann Arbor
47 books from a Solzhenitsyn collection for the University Library
Kathy Stiffler, Dewitt
one electric powered wheelchair for the University Hospitals
Stanford Stoddard, Southfield
one Japanese hanging scroll for the Museum of Art
Donna Tobey, Lansing
two electric powered wheelchairs for the University Hospitals
Henrietta H. Weinberg, Southfield
a collection of Judaic books for the University Library
Additional gifts ranging from $1 to $999 in value were received from the following
donors:
Khaled al-Saa'i, Ann Arbor                         Laurent J. Pierre, Calgary, Alberta, Canada
Beverly F. Baker, Bloomfield Hills                 Herbert W. Johe, Ann Arbor
Herbert Barrows Estate                             Grace Kachaturoff, West Bloomfield
Robert M. Beckley, Ann Arbor                       Rose H. Kahn, Chelsea
W. Howard Bond, Ann Arbor                          Douglas C. Kelley, Ann Arbor
Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., New York, New York       Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor
Charles E. M. Dunlop, Ann Arbor                    Jacquelyn A. Levin, Chesterfield, Missouri
Richard F. Dworsky, Anchorage, Alaska              Maney Wire and Cable, Norco, California
Ernst & Young LLP, Cleveland, Ohio                 Frank J. Massey, Dearborn
Jack Faxon, Birmingham                             Fan Parker, Ann Arbor
Julie Ferdon, Tucson, Arizona                      Play it Again PCs, Livonia
Fernando J. Ferreira, Sao Paulo, Brazil            Kristi L. Richards, Dearborn
Richard I. Ford, Ann Arbor                         Richard W. Roehl, Santa Rosa, California
Gale Group, Farmington Hills                       Thomas G. Wojtas, Southfield
Carl E. Guldberg, Ann Arbor
Brenda S. Herman, Ann Arbor
July 2003:
Academic Management Services, Inc., Swansea, Massachusetts
for Undergraduate Student Aid at the University of Michigan.............................. $10,000
Alliance of Automobil Manufacturers, Inc., Washington, D. C.
for support in the Transportation Research Institute....................................... 21,591
Altarum Institute, Ann Arbor
for the ERIM Professorship in the College of Engineering........................  300,000
American Academy of Pediatric Dentistry, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry.................................................  16,000
44




September Meeting, 2003


American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 123,237
Annenberg Foundation, Saint Davids, Pennsylvania
for the Ford Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................... 500,000
ASN, Washington, D. C.
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 87,500
Bank of America Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina
for support in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
and for employee matching gifts......................................................... 10,774
Lorene Banta Trust
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.............................. 46,274
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................. 23,000
Boeing Defense and Space Group, Seattle, Washington
for scholarships and support in the College of Engineering.................................... 97,500
Aureola L. Boyd Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 170,975
Ford R. Bryan, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Esth te at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 10,000
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Fund in the School of Business Administration................ 10,000
CaP CURE, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 100,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for research in the School of Public Health................................................. 22,869
Consortium for Graduate Study in Management, Saint Louis, Missouri
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration.................................... 102,954
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for scholarships in the College of Engineering
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 65,120
DCES Education Services, Canton
for the Summer Engineering Academy Program in the College of Engineering.................... 21,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 27,500
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
9,000 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Ruth Dow Doaen Endowed Professorship and Directorship in the Medical School........... 314,370
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................. 85,000
William and Audrey Farber Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of Metro Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sol Drachler Program in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work............ 15,000
Sonja and Conrad Fisher Fund of the Kalamazoo Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................ 15,000
Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 170,000
Ford Family Trust
4,400 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for the Ford Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................... 199,892
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Hunt Valley, Maryland
for research in the Medical School........................................................ 85,138
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Medical School........................................................ 40,000
GE Power Systems, Schenectady New York
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 25,000
GLS Memorial Fund, New York, New York
for the Richards, Polatsch and Weingard Memorial Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature  Science, and the Arts.............................................  12,500
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr. 1996 Trust
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School......................................... 15,000
Wallace D. Grant, Ann Arbor
for the Mickey and Wally Grant Ice Hoclkey Scholarship and
other support in the Department of Athletics............................................... 25,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................. 100,000
Jean M. Holland, Birmingham
for the Frederick Richard Holland, M.D. Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School.............. 25,000


45




September Meeting, 2003


Redlich Horwitz Foundation, Saddle River, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 25,000
Ann Hunter, Boulder, Colorado
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 1 0,000
William F. Hunting, Jr., Andover, New Hampshire
364 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the Law School........................................................... 10,021
Instrumentation Laboratoiy, Lexington, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 15,000
John D. Janicek Tmust
for the John D. Janicek Endowment Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 200,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts............................ 408,061
Robert C. Jones, Summit, New Jersey
for the Harry H. Jones Endowment Fund in the School of Business Administration................. 50,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for WUOM........................................................................ 165,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in. the University Hospitals.................................................... 14,852
Michael H. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
for the research in the Medical School.................................................... 20,300
Lisa, F. Knight-Giuliani, Morganville, New Jersey
for the Lisa Faith Knight Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............................ 50,000
Herbert H. Lee Tmust
for the Herbert H. Lee Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan.......................... 20,015
Jerry W. Levin, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Jerry W. and Carol L. Levin Endowed Fund in the College of Engineering................ 200,000
Richard T. Liddicoat Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 30,000
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 30,000
Jane W. Linsky, New York, New York
2,300 shares of New York Times common stock
for the Weston-Linsky Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 104,294
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..                    40,625
Manzella Investment Company, Dexter
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.5.................................. 5000
Marathon Oil Company Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 12,850
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 32,768
Ralph L. McCormick, Palos Verdes Peninsula, California
for the Ralph L. McCormiclk Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Engineering............................................................. 20,000
McGraw Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for the McGraw Foundation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration and
for the Max McGraw Sustainable Scholarship Challenge Fund in
the School of Natural Recourses and Environment.......................................... 25,000
Mellor Family Foundation, Laguna Beach, California
for the Class of 1952 Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering........................... 10,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for the Merck Medical Scientist Training Program Fund in the Medical School................... 300,000
Merck and Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for support in the School of Public Health and for employee matching gifts....................... 36,550
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
for support in the School of Social Work, and
for employee matching gifts........................................................... 201,697
Mary C. Muiphy, Calumet
for the Mary C. Mubphy Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Percy J. and Mary C. Murphy R. N. Professorship of Pediatrics in the Medical School........... 18,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 119,996
Milo E. Oliphant Estate
for the Dr. Lizzie Walser Oliphant Memorial Fund in the Medical School....................... 123,455


46




September Meeting, 2003


David and Lucille Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 20,000
Elizabeth M. S. Parry, Alfred Station, New York
for the Marilyn Sibley Fries Memorial German Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................... 10,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the Kenneth L. Casey Lectureship in the Medical School..................................  10,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Burke E. Porter Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering..................... 10,000
Power Foundation, Kalamnazo
for the Sadye Harwick Power Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 27,530
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 35,850
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................  10,000
Judith Dow Rumelhart, Ann Arbor
3,405 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Music and
for the  University  M usical Society......................................................  33,350
Edward I. Schalon Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...........................................  100,000
Peter A. Schweitzer, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Schweitzer Collegiate Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 100,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Music........................... 100,500
Sinai Medical Staff Foundation, Southfield
for support in  the  M edical School.......................................................  24,000
Edwin J. Smith, Las Cruces, New Mexico
275 shares of Genlyte Group, Inc., common stock
for the Men's Track and Field Fund in the Department of Athletics............................ 10,144
Maureen A. Sullivan Kennelly Trust
for the Dr. David Rosen Research Fund in the Medical School................................  10,000
TG North America Corporation, Troy
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.........................................  15,000
Carlton E. Tripp, Sr. Tnist
for the Carlton E. and Frances E. Tripp Memorial Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering.. 253,650
2003 TRW Automotive Fund of the Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................  75,000
2003 TRW Education Support Fund of the Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  15,000
U of M Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the U of M Club Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for other scholarship support at the University of Michigan..................................  19,800
U of M Club Flint, Flint
for the U of M Club of Greater Flint Endowed Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.......... 20,000
John Wagner, Ann Arbor
for the Helen S. and John Wagner Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 10,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  60,820
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the Prechter Fellowships for New Manufacturing at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 33,000
Elizabeth Wright, Farmington Hills
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Duane N. Dietrich, Muncie, Indiana
a collection of historical and literary letters, documents, and other materials of the
experiences and reflections of World War I and II soldiers for the University Library
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
22 Optiplex mini towers, 22 flat panel monitors, Pentium 4 processors, and a
Workstation 650 for the College of Engineering
Janice B. Longone, Ann Arbor
a large collection of books and publications relating to cooking and other domestic
sciences for the Clements Library


47




September Meeting, 2003


Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Ellen S. Agress, Scarborough, New York
Ajax Paving Industries, Inc., Madison Heights
Karl C. Allen, Windsor, Colorado
All-Pro Exercise, Inc., Farmington Hills
Peter H. Amann, Dearborn
Charlotte K. Anderson Estate
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
Robert A. Ballard, Spring Lake
Bank One Foundation, Detroit
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
David W. Berson Charitable Lead Annuity Trust
Rebecca A. Boylan, Ann Arbor
John W. Burau, Gaylord
Janet E. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
ChevronTexaco Matching Gift Program, Princeton,
New Jersey
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan,
Southfield
Cove Point Foundation, New York, New York
John R. Crosby Memorial Fund, Ann Arbor
Peter C. Cubba, Bloomfield Hills
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
Kathleen M. Diehl, Ann Arbor
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
Jeffrey E. Friedman, Beverly Hills, California
Howard Friend, Glencoe, Illinois
Gilmour Fund, Detroit
Bruce and Suzy Gershenson Family Foundation,
Southfield
Kalvin M. Grove, Saint Petersburg, Florida
Lord J. Guidon, Thousand Oaks, California
Hydro Aluminum, Adrian


Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., Harrison,
New York
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman,
New Jersey
Lance E. Kesselring, Ann Arbor
Jon H. Kouba, San Francisco, California
Joseph T. A. and Elsie C. Lee Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts
Lockheed Martin, Lakeland, Florida
William F. MacDonald Fund, Louisville, Kentucky
MBNA America Bank, Wilmington, Delaware
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturers of America,
Washington, D. C.
Kenlee Ray, Washington, D. C.
Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation, Springfield,
New Jersey
SBC Southwestern Bell Telephone Company,
Saint Louis, Missouri
Seigle Family Foundation, Elgin, Illinois
Thomas E. Shankie, Canton
Gordon H. Smith, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Joseph H. Spiegel, Ann Arbor
Nell G. Stern, Ann Arbor
Robert E. Terkhorn, Denver, Colorado
University of Michigan Student Organization Accounts,
Ann Arbor
Gerald A. Weber, Chicago, Illinois
James R. Weigand, Elkhart, Indiana
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania


August 2003:
Earl B. Abramson, Highland Park, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration...................................... $10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Medical School and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................ 100,487
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for support in the Schools of Dentistry and Public Health, the Medical School, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................... 463,415
Anonymous Donor
for support of the University of Michigan.............................................. 6,275,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 24,167
Azalea Foundation, Saint Simons Island, Georgia
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................ 10,000
Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Association, Zug, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering..................... 149,985
Baker Hughes Business Support Services, Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering................................................ 35,000
Ralph B. Baldwin, Naples, Florida
for the Ralph B. Baldwin Professorship in Astronomy in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................................40,000
Barr Group, Inc., Southfield
for the Oosterbaan Turf Project in the Department of Athletics............................... 50,000
Mandell L. Berman, Southfield
for the Sol Drachler Program in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work.......... 10,000
Boeing Company, Seattle Washington
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 11,765
Frederick W. W. Bolander, Hillsborough, California
10,000 shares of Concord Communications, Inc., common stock
for the Academic Success Center in the Department of Athletics............................. 138,850


48




September Meeting, 2003


Seth Bonder Trust
for the Seth Bonder Endowed Research Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................ 20,000
Earl R. Boonstra, Boynton Beach, Florida
for the Earl and Margaret Boonstra Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  Law  School..................................................................  100,000
Bowl for Burns, Trenton
for support in the M edical School....................................................... 42,898
BP Foundation, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for em ployee  m atching  gifts............................................................  11,225
Edith K. Brinkman Trust
for the Edith K. Brinkman Fund in the Medical School.......................................  35,849
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for scholarships and other support in the Medical School and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................  39,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for em ployee  m atching  gifts............................................................  12,800
John T. Buck Trust
for the Golf Hole Endowment Fund in the Department of Athletics............................. 10,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 65,000
Campbell Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Lincoln Campbell Endowment Fund in the School of Business Administration........ 160,000
ChevronTexaco, Concord, California
for support in  the College of Engineering.................................................. 35,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration........... 11,400
ConocoPhillips Company, Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering............................................ 35,000
Conrad Charitable Foundation, Northville
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.........................................  15,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the M edical School.......................................................  80,954
Casilda Daly, Vero Beach, Florida
2,578 shares of Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School.............................. 249,842
Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire
for the Chemistry Graduate Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 25,000
John G. Davies, Santa Barbara, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.............................................  10,000
Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in  the University  Hospitals....................................................  10,000
William T. Dobson Estate
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration for
the Mary Hunter Dobson Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women and
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........................................  125,000
Domino's Pizza, Ann Arbor
for research  in the Comprehensive Cancer Center...........................................  50,000
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the M edical School.......................................................  65,0 0
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Estate
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music................ 97,408
Roger Fitzsimonds, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Roger L. and Leona I. Fitzsimonds Endowed Research Fund in the Medical School.......... 50,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Medical School, the University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts.....................................................  483,600
Foundation for Digestive Heath and Nutrition, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School.....................................................  25,250
Stanley Frankel, Troy
for the Frankel Fellowship Fund in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work and
for the Judaic Studies Director's Discretionary Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................................12,500
Robert H. Freeman Trust
for the Robert H. Freeman Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 16,127
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering and
the School of Business Administration and
for employee matching  gifts..........................................................  92,222


49




September Meeting, 2003


Charles S. Goldsby Estate
for the Millie Schembechler Memorial Fund in the Medical School............................. 22,249
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Director's Strategic Opportunities Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 10,000
Garth E. Griffith, Richmond, Virginia
for support in the Law School........................................................... 10,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Social Work.................................................  11,114
Verl J. Hawks Trust
for the Solid State Electrical Laboratory Construction Fund in the College of Engineering......... 181,241
Holcim (US), Inc., Dundee
for the Holcim Professorships in the Schools of Business Administration and
Natural Resources and Environment................................................... 500,000
LaRue Tone Hosmer, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration.................................... 10,000
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School.................. 10,000
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School................................................ 20,000
Helen M. Hutt Estate
for support in the Medical School, in memory of Lloyd F. and Helen M. Hutt................... 230,172
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering................................................ 15,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 85,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health, the Medical School, and
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.............................................. 297,099
Thomas C. Jones, Northport
for the Thomas C. Jones and the Jane M. and Chester R. Jones Funds
in the School of Business Administration............................................... 200,000
W. M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Medical School................................................... 224,700
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals................................................ 14,852
Louis A. Kubicek Estate
for support at the University of Michigan................................................ 40,000
Josephine Kugel Foundation, Inc., McLean, Virginia
135 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Josephine Kugel Foundation Scholarship in the Medical School......................... 10,022
David A. Lauer, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Art and Design................................................. 10,000
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 27,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Chemical Engineering Undergraduate Scholarship in the College of Engineering,
for the Eli Lilly Technology Fund in the College of Pharmacy,
for the Eli Lilly Foundation Fund in the Medical School, and
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 461,496
Luise C. Brandenstein Livingston Estate
for the Fred Hodges Radiological Society Fund,
the John F. Holt Collegiate Professorship, and
other support in the Medical School................................................. 117,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies....................................... 16,375
Lockheed Martin Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the College of Engineering............................................  15,000
Magna Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for support in the Transportation Research Institute................................... 15,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, W\hite Plains, New York
for research in the Schools of Dentistry and Medicine..................................... 68,947
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 37,500
May and Walt Family Charitable Fund of Combined Jewish Philanthropies, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 25,000
Michigan State University-College of Law, East Lansing
for WUOM..................................................................  12,324


50




September Meeting, 2003


Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and
the School of Business Administration.................................................... 80,000
David L. Miller, Grand Blanc
for the David L. and Janet M. Miller Endowved Scholarship in the School of Dentistry.............. 10,000
Eugene and Sheila Mondry Foundation, Franklin
for the Mitchell A. Mondry Entrepreneurial Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.... 10,000
Dorothy Mosimann Estate
for support in the Medical School....................................................... 525,000
National Alliance for Autism Research, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 23,500
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 10,500
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Grand Ledge
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................................... 12,500
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research   in  the  M edical School.......................................................o  30,938
National Water Research Institute, Fountain Valley, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 10,000
Newman Family Foundation Bloomfield Hills
for the Theodore S. Lawrence, M.D., Ph.D. Fund in the Medical School.......................... 10,000
Paul J. Nutter Esthete
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 148,275
John M. Olin Foundation Inc., New York, New York
for the Olin Center for Law and Economics in the Law School................................ 154,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 20,000
Brian Parker Memorial Foundation, Niles
for the Childhood Program in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................... 10,000
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, Newv Jersey
for support in the University Hospitals and for employee matching gifts......................... 14,142
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy................................................ 52,000
Pharmacia Foundation, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 10,195
Polo Fields Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Polo Fields Foundation Wellness Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................ 21,000
Proctor & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration and for employee matching gifts.............. 54,558
Frances Quarton, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Medical School.................................................... 10,000
Riley S. Rees, Ann Arbor
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for the Reed 0. Dingm'an Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School........................ 10,050
Ralph E. Reins, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the Ralph E. and Victoria L. Reins Fund in the College of Engineering....................... 12,470
Margaret A. Riecker, Midland
for the Jean Campbell Research Fund in the Center for Education of Women..................... 13,000
Anne P. Rowe, Ann Arbor
for the Joseph E. and Anne P. Rowe Endowed Professorship in the College of Engineering......... 588,387
Schlumberger, Sugar Land, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................. 35,000
Shell International E & P, Inc., Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................. 30,000
Raymond C. Smith Foundation Endowment Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan.................................................. 44,000
William G. Stuckle Estate
for the William G. and Marion E. Stuckle Scholarship Fund in the School of Nursing............... 52,030
Total E&P USA, Inc., Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................. 35,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
22,000 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Academic Success Center in the Department of Athletics and
for the Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Policy Makers in Residence Fund in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................................... 749,870
United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 72,000
51




September Meeting, 2003


Andy Warhol Foundation for Visual Arts, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Museum of Art........................................................ 40,000
William E. Watch, Troy
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................. 10,000
Wepan, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.............................................. 10,650
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for fellowships in the College of Engineering............................................. 152,000
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sam Zell Dean's Tactical Fund in the Law School.................................... 100,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Robert E. Doremus, Dearborn Heights
miscellaneous silver items for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Louise P. Erickson, Weston, Massachusetts
a collection of 19th century various printed material and prints for the Clements Library
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
a 2003 Ford Thunderbird for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
35 wireless Compaq Evo Notebook computers and accessories for the College of Engineering
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Alcoa, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Arab-American and Chaldean Council, Lathrup Village
A. P. Bartholomew, Jr., Ocean Ridge, Florida
Bruce P. Bickner, Dekalb, Illinois
Budres Foundation, Grand Rapids
Jean W. Campbell Trust
Cappo Management, Ann Arbor
Cargill, Inc., Fargo, North Dakota
Colgate-Palmolive Company, Jeffersonville, Indiana
Phelps M. Connell, Ann Arbor
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
Gunter Dufey Trust of the Fidelity Investments
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
Charles L. Evans Trust
Steven F. Fishman, Detroit
Barbara A. Foss, Flora, Illinois
Charles H. Gessner, Marblehead, Massachusetts
GTH Investments LLC, Ann Arbor
Raymond P. Gura, Avon Lake, Ohio
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Avon, Connecticut
David A. IHamilton, Allen Park
Highfield Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
Kajima Foundation, Inc., Rochelle Park, New Jersey
Lance E. Kesselring, Ann Arbor
W. Henry Koivunen, Livonia
Life Fitness, Franklin Park, Illinois
Oliver D. Marcks Foundation, Detroit
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Dexter
Meredith Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa


Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, LTD., Nagasaki, Japan
Nissan Research and Development, Inc.,
Farmington Hills
Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation, Inc., New York,
New York
Omenn-Darling Family Advised Fund, Seattle,
Washington
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation,
Rosemont, Illinois
Panera Bread, Lathrup Village
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
Dean E. Richardson, Grosse Pointe Fartms
RMIC Corporation, Winston-Salem, North Carolina
Roche Diagnostics Coporpation, Indian.apolis, Indiana
Schering Sales Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
Shirlev K. Schlafer Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
John P. Schmidt, Ann Arbor
Michael A. Simon, Chicago, Illinois
King C. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
Edward Surovell Company, Ann Arbor
Target Store, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
Richard F. Towner Trust
United Guaranty, Greensboro, North Carolina
United Negro College Fund, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
United Online, Thousand Oaks, California
UNOCAL Foundation, El Segundo, California
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Bentonville, Arkansas
Nancy Williams Walls, Ann Arbor
Jing Wang, Cambridge, Massachusetts
Lawrence E. Westkaemper, Ambler, Pennsylvania
Clayton E. WTilhite, Ann Arbor
Richard C. Wilson Trust


Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
He called attention to recommendations for the reappointment of William Gosling as
University librarian and Allen Lichter as dean of the Medical School. He pointed out
also the appointments of Dr. Valerie Castle as chair of the Department of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases in the Medical School and Dr. Deborah Goldberg as chair of
the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, both effective September 1, 2003.  He noted that their
52




September Meeting, 2003


appointments are the first ever appointments of women as chairs of departments in the
Medical School or in the sciences in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on September 1, 2003
Agrawal, Arun, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural
Resources and Environment
Crane, Gregg D., Ph.D., J.D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Giordano, Thomas J., M.D., Ph.D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology,
Medical School
Grazier, Kyle L., Ph.D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Management and Policy, School
of Public Health
Lee, James Z., Ph.D., Professor of Chinese History, with tenure, and Professor of Sociology, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Obbink, Dirk, M.A., Professor of Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ransom, Scott B., D.O., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, Medical School,
and Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Health
Snow, Rachel, D.Sc., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public
Health
Turits, Richard Lee, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and Associate Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Wu, Sijue, Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Young, Virginia R., Ph.D., Cecil J. and Ethel M. Nesbitt Professor of Actuarial Mathematics and
Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Gosling, William A., University Librarian, University Library, December 1, 2003-November 30, 2008
Perry, Valener L., Assistant Dean for Student Services, College of Pharmacy,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Smith, Sherril A., Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of Art and Design,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Buchman, Steven R., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of
Neurosurgery, without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Castle, Valerie P., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, also appointed
Chair, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Chandler, William F., Professor of Neurosurgery, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Internal
Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Colletti, Lisa M., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for
Graduate Medical Education, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Deloria, Philip J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of American
Culture, with tenure, also appointed Director, Program in American Culture, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Driscoll, James F., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair,
Department of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering, September 1, 2003
Flax, Neil, Associate Professor of Comparative Literature and German, with tenure, also appointed Chair,
Department of Humanities, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004


53




September Meeting, 2003


Goldberg, Deborah E., Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, also appointed
Chair, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
Luma, Jill Becker, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for Academic
Affairs, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2004
Menon, Ram K., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, also appointed Professor
of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Muraszko, Karin M., Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of
Surgery, without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Nas, Tevfik, Professor of Economics, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of Economics,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, August 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
Nolen-Hoeksema, Susan K., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Psychiatry, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Director, Institute for Research
on Women and Gender, Office of the Vice President for Research, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2005
Papalambros, Panos Y., Donald C. Graham Professor of Engineering and Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed Professor of Architecture,
without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Sandier, Howard, Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Urology,
without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Schottenfeld, David, John G. Searle Professor of Epidemiology and Professor of Epidemiology, with
tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School,
also appointed Interim Chair, Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, July 1, 2003
Sension, Roseanne J., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, also appointed, Associate Professor
of Physics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, Acting Director, Program in American Culture, also appointed Professor of
History, with tenure, Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, and Professor of American
Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
Williams, Reg A., Professor of Nursing, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Psychiatry, without
tenure, Medical School, August 1, 2003
Zak, Donald R., Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, also appointed Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS.
Effective on the dates indicated
Naing E~xisting ColgaeProfessorships
Kathleen Gough Collegiate Professorship of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003
Jerome and Isabella Karle Collegiate Professorship in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003
Warren E. Miller Collegiate Professorship in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, August 1, 2003
Lawrence B. Slobodkin Collegiate Professorship in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTlIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Aj 1Intinentsto CoIe iaterroeiii
Achen, Christopher H., Warren E. Miller Collegiate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Ewing, Rodney C., Donald R. Peacor Collegiate Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Appintents to Endowed fiokssor.h is
Bolling, Steven F., Gayle Halperin Kahn Professor of Integrative Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 2003-July 31, 2008
Chen, Zhan, Dow Coming Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
54




September Meeting, 2003


A4pointments to Nated Professorshi s
Falk, Michael L., Dow Corning Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Kahn, Margaret F., David M. French Professor, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Pintak, Lawrence, Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Reappjointent to Colleiate Proessorsh
Kenyon, George L., Tom D. Rowe Collegiate Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Reg~pointments to Named Professoirshji
Carlson, Heather A., John Gideon Searle Assistant Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, College of
Pharmacy, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2006
Gladwin, Thomas N., Max McGraw Professorship in Sustainable Enterprise, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Richardson, Rudy J., Dow Professor of Toxicology, School of Public Health,
October 1, 2003-September 30, 2008
Other Transactions
Carli, Thomas, Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs, Medical School, September 18, 2003
Dey, Eric L., from Associate Dean to Executive Associate Dean, School of Education,
July 1, 2002-July 31, 2004
Keoleian, Gregory A., from Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, to Associate
Professor of Sustainable Systems, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and Environment,
September 1, 2003
Lichter, Allen S., reappointed Dean, Medical School, May 1, 2004-April 30, 2009
Mindell, David P., Director, Herbarium, and Director, Museum of Zoology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Porter, Jefferson K., Assistant Vice President for Development, University Development Office, July 1, 2003
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
Axe, John R., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Booth, John L., II, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Dance, William H., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Diedrich, Duane N., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Dufek, Candace, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Dziuszko, Thomas M., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Earle, William G., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Eisendrath, Charles R., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Erwin, Elizabeth C., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Finkenstaedt, William C., Jr., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Fox, John L., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Goss, James, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Heydon, Peter N., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Hook, Keith B., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Irwin, James R., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Kennedy, Sally, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Kingsley, Thomas, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Klancnik, James M., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Liebman, Thomas C., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Lowenhaupt, Charles, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Mason, Philip P., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Mueller, Janet, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Peslar, Drew, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Pohrt, Richard A., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Price, Jacob M., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Schoff, Joanna, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Schoonhoven, Anne Marie, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Seger, Martha R., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004


55




September Meeting, 2003


Shapiro, Harold T., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Thompson, Bradley L., II, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Upton, David, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Walters, David B., reappointed, retroactive, May 6, 2003-September 30, 2004
Wheeler, John D., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Winkelman, Margaret W., reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Wolf, Clarence, reappointed, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
College ofEngineering Executive Committee
Savage, Phillip E., September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004, vice Linda M. Abriola, on leave of absence
Committee on Honorary Degee:s
Collins, Steven H., student representative, November 1, 2003-June 30, 2005, vice Elizabeth H. Anderson,
term expired
Mead, Andrew W., September 1, 2003-June 30, 2004, vice Sherman A. James, left the University
Mledical School Executive Committee
Boxer, Laurence A., September 1, 2003-August 31, 2005, vice Lisa M. Colletti, resigned from the
committee
University of Michian-Dearborn C(tizens Advisory Committee
Ahmed, Ismael N., reappointed, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2007
Kughn, Linda, reappointed, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2007
Porter, Michael C., reappointed, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2007
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ahn, Hyun-Soo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Operation Management Science, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Andricioaei, loan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Aydin, Goker, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Bailey, Joseph F., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2003
Barolo, Scott E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School, August
1, 2003-July 31, 2005
Battles, Kathleen M., B.A., Lecturer I in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1-August 31, 2003
Beil, Damian R., Ph.D., Lecturer in Business, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Ben-Josef, Edgar, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School,
August 18, 2003-June 30, 2004
Beny, Laura N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Berman, Deborah R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
August 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Berry, Moulouk A. L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Arabic, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Bertacco, Valeria M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Blayney, Douglas, M.D., Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Borjigin, Jimo, M.S., Assistant Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Medical School,
August 1, 2003-July 31, 2005
Bouma, Rolf, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Environment, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Bourgeois, Elizabeth K., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Brackbill, Erin L., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2005
56




September Meeting, 2003


Bucher, Rodney S., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-July 31, 2004
Bucholtz, Inger L., MATL, Lecturer II in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2003
Cetola, Henry W., Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Chames, Mark, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
August 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Chapman, Matthew R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Chiclana, Arleen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Chidambaram, Rama, M.Sc., Lecturer in Mathematics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Chin, Rita C. K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Chiravuri, Srinivas, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Chugh, Aman, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Clague, Mark, B.M., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2007
Cornejo-Krohn, Lourdes, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Cottrell, Kelly R., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
Crundwell, Robert M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Dahlgren, Amy E., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
August 25, 2003-August 24, 2004
Dang, Duyen, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2006
Daniels, Patricia, Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Demb, Jonathan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, and
Assistant Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
DeSanto, Paola C., B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2003
Doris, David T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Dufallo, Basil J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Eibschitz-Tsimhoni, Maya, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical
School, July 1, 2003-July 31, 2004
Everett, Susan A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Fields, Warren B., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Fisseha, Senait, J.D., Clinical Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Gadegbeku, Crystal, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 17, 2003-June 30, 2006
Gharpurey, Ranjit, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College
of Engineering, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Gilpin, Dawn, M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Gold, David, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Rhetoric and Composition, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Goncharov, Yevgeny, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Gordon-Gurfinkel, Deborah M., B.Ed., Lecturer II in Speech, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Halpert, Julie, B.A., Lecturer II in English and Communication, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Hand, Linda L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Hillman, Helena W., M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Houghtelling, Sara W., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2003
57




September Meeting, 2003


Hsiao, Samuel K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Jenkins, Kristi R., M.P.H., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Jennings, Jeffrey, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Johnsen, Jill, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Kales, Theresa A., B.S.W., Lecturer II in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Kang, Hyunsuk, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Kasten, Steven J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, August 25, 2003-August 31, 2004
Kelley, Kendrick M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sweetland Writing Center, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Khan, Amina I., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Kim, Hyung J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine and Clinical Assistant
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Klipp, David A., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Kong, Feng-Ming P., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Koster, James J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2003-July 6, 2004
Kunju, Lakshmi P., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Lahann, Joerg, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
LaMarca, Frank, M.D., Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Laube, Heather, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Lee, Dave H., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2003-July 6, 2004
Lukela, Michael, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Clinical
Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Lynch, Jerome P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Madison, Julia E., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-July 31, 2005
Mankouche, Steven Y., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Mao, Zhuoqing M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College
of Engineering, January 1, 2003-May 31, 2007
Marder, Wendy, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Markosian, Lee, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Martis, Brian, M.B.B.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, July 21, 2003-July
20, 2006
McCrary, Justin R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
McDonagh, Cara, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Miller, David, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Microbiology
and Immunology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
Minter, Rebecca M., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Surgery, Medical School, July 14, 2003-August 31, 2004
Mir, Farina, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Monrad, Seetha, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Morris, Arden M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, August 18, 2003-August 31, 2004
Naber, Nadine C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Women's Studies and Assistant Professor of American
Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Nazir, Javed, M.A., Lecturer II in Communication Studies and Lecturer II in Undergraduate Curriculum,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
O'Riordan, Mary X., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
O'Kray, Henry P., D.D.S., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 27, 2003-June 30, 2004
Patel, Anup, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004


58




September Meeting, 2003


Perlman, Rachel, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Perry, Julie S., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Plough, India C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2003
Pomilio, Mark V., M.F.A., Lecturer II in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2003
Ribeiro, Saulo C. M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School,
August 1, 2003-July 31, 2006
Ro, Young K., M.S., Lecturer in Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2006
Roach, Stephanie M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Sabharwal, Gauravi K., M.B.B.S., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-July 30, 2004
Schmidt, John P., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Seidler, Rachael D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, and Assistant
Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Seipke, Heather, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Communication, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Serlin, David C., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Singer, Andrew, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Soliman, Amr, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Spoor, Martinus, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Thrall, A. Trevor, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Tobier, Nicholas A., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Trievel, Raymond C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Tsai, Sheila, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Wampler, Stephen M., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Wang, Michael H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Neurology and Assistant Professor of Molecular and
Integrative Physiology, Medical School, August 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Ward, Brent B., D.D.S., Assistant Professor of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Lecturer in Oral
Surgery, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
Ware, Robert, J.D., Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Weston, Mark, M.A., M.Arch., Lecturer in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Williams, Trina R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Winesky, Beth H., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2005
Wishart, Matthew, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Woolley, Michael E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Wu, Rebecca A., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-July 31, 2004
Yamada, Elina, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
August 1, 2003-July 31, 2006
Yang, Dean C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Yang, Li-hsuan, Ph.D., Lecturer in Integrated Science Education, UM-Flint College of Computer
Science, Engineering Science, and Physics, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Baumann, Gregory W., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
June 25, 2003-June 30, 2004 (previously reported as Clinical Lecturer in Emergency Medicine)
59




September Meeting, 2003


Beil, Damian R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006 (previously reported as Lecturer in Business,)
Doris, David T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies and Assistant Professor
of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
(previously reported as Assistant Professor of American Culture Program and Assistant Professor
of History of Art)
Ewer, Steven M., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005 (previously reported as Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine)
Hong, Ming, Ph.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004 (previously
reported as Clinical Lecturer in Neurology)
Teodorescu, Mihaela, M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
(previously reported as Clinical Lecturer in Neurology)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRtNSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aronoff, David, from Lecturer to Clincal Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Aurora, Taruna K., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine,
Medical School, September 1, 2003
Borschel, Debaroti M., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, September 1, 2003
Dean, Margaret L., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature and Lecturer II in Sweetland Writing
Center also appointed Lecturer II in Lloyd Hall Scholars Program, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003
Delgado, Jose E., from Lecturer in Dentistry, Department of Prosthodontics, and Lecturer in Dentistry,
Department of Cardiology, Restorative Sciences and Endodontics, to Clinical Lecturer in
Dentistry, Department of Prosthodontics and Lecturer in Dentistry, Department of Cardiology,
Restorative Sciences and Endodontics, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2003.
Edlund, Steven Z., from Lecturer in Dentistry to Clinical Lecturer in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery,
School of Dentistry, July 1, 2003
Foley, C. Fritz T., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business,
School of Business Administration, September 1, 2003
Gauger, Paul G., Assistant Professor of Surgery also appointed Assistant Professor of Office of
Educational Resources and Research, Medical School, July 1, 2003
Hammoud, Maya M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, July 1, 2003
Heidelbaugh, Joel J., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine,
Medical School, September 1, 2003
Jaffe, Craig A., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, September 1, 2003
Kanjirath, Preetha P., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
August 1, 2003
Kramer, Jon M., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and from Lecturer to
Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2003
Le, Theodore T., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School,
April 1, 2003
Lewis, Toby C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, September 1, 2003
M'closkey, Karen M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2003
Mangrulkar, Rajesh, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2003
Nainar, Hashim S., from Lecturer in Dentistry and Lecturer in Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry to
Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2003
Patel, Himanshu J., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003
Reddy, Pavan, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003
Reddy, Raju C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2003
Richardson, Caroline R., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
June 1, 2003
Roddier, Mireille, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2003


60




September Meeting, 2003


Roebuck, Michael D., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine,
Medical School, September 1, 2003
Rowe, Stephen A., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003
Schlossberg, Betina, from Lecturer II in Romance Languages and Literatures to Lecturer II in English
Language Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2003
Smith, Jeffery D., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, September 1, 2003
Stoltz, Anjanette M., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, September 1, 2003
Suri, Pawan, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical
School, September 1, 2003
Walton, Susan P., Lecturer II in Musicology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed
Lecturer in Music, School of Music, September 1, 2003
Warber, Sara L., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2003
White, Eric, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003
Wilkins, Gretchen L., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2003
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brewer, George J., Morton S. and Henrietta K. Sellner Professor of Human Genetics, Professor Emeritus
of Human Genetics, and Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Briggs, Dale, Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Cameron, Oliver G., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban Planning and Regional
Planning, School of Natural Resources and Environment, June 1, 2003-August 31, 2003
Damato, Constance J., Assistant Professor Emerita of Neurobiology, Medical School,
January 1, 2003-December 31, 2004
Fortner, Richard W., Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Flint School of
Management, July 1, 2003-August 31, 2003
Green, Daniel G., Professor Emeritus of Physiological Optics, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Electrical Engineering, College of Engineering, and Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-December 31, 2003
Gurin, Patricia Y., Nancy Cantor Distinguished University Professor Emerita of Psychology and
Women's Studies and Professor Emerita of Psychology and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-July 31, 2003
Hsu, Chen-Hsing, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Heirich, Max A., Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Research Scientist Emeritus, Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Hiss, Roland G., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medical Education and Professor Emeritus of Internal
Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2003
Knopf, Ralph F., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Konigsberg, Ira, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature and Professor Emeritus of Film
and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Lorey, Robert E., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Louis, Dean S., Professor Emeritus of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Murphey, Rhoads, Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Port, Friedrich K., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, March 1, 2003-February 29, 2004
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Slavens, Thomas P., Professor Emeritus of Information, School of Information, June 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Weg, John G., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2003-August 31, 2004


61




September Meeting, 2003


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abriola, Linda M., Horace Williams King Collegiate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
and Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
personal leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Allan, J. David, Professor of Conservation Biology and Ecosystem Management, with tenure, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Bhattacharyya, Sugato, Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Bright, Charles C., Professor of Residential College, without tenure, and Professor of History, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September
1-December 31, 2003, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Bums, Mark A., Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Carson, John S., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Cook, James W., Jr., Assistant Professor of American Studies and Assistant Professor of History, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2003, and
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Cornish, Alison, Associate Professor of Italian, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Dierker, Steven B., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, leave
without salary, July 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Edwards, Paul N., Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, and Associate
Professor of Information Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Erickson, Donna L., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources
and Environment, and Associate Professor of Urban Planning, without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Ewing, Rodney C., William Kerr Collegiate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences,
Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, and Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of
Geological Sciences, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Fisk, Lennard A., Thomas M. Donahue Collegiate Professor of Space Science and Professor of
Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Flannery, Kent V., James B. Griffin Distinguished University Professor of Anthropological Archaeology
and Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Gland, John L., Professor of Chemistry and Applied Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Professor of Chemical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Gurhan, Zeynep, Associate Professor of Marketing, without tenure, School of Business Administration,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Hancock, David J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Hecht, Gabrielle, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of History,
Residential College, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Herrin, Gary D., Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-December 31, 2003
Herseth, Freda A., Associate Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Hosford, William F., Jr., Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough, September 1, 2003-December 31, 2003
Kaplan, Rachel, Samuel Trask Dana Professor of Environment and Behavior and Professor of Natural
Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and Environment, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Lam, Joseph S.C., Professor of Music (Musicology), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 1, 2004


62




September Meeting, 2003


Lee, Ching K., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Lin, Ann C., Associate Professor of Political Science, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, duty off campus, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Mehta, Rajendra H., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, duty off campus,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Meyer, William J., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Moore, Michael R., Associate Professor of Environmental Economics, without tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Nettles, Michael T., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, personal leave,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Nidiffer, Jana, Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, duty off campus,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Norich, Anita, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Padmanabhan, K. H., Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Papaefthymiou, Marios C., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Polk, Thad A., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Pollock, Stephen M., Herrick Professor of Manufacturing and Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Porter, David L., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Comparative Literature, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Powers, Martin J., Sally Michelson Davidson Professor of Chinese Arts and Cultures and Professor of
History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Prins, Johanna H., Associate Professor of English Language and Comparative Literature, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Quint, Douglas J., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, personal leave, July 7-August 8, 2003
Ramamoorthy, Ayyalusamy, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Somanathan, Rohini, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Somers, Margaret R., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of History,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Swift, Dan J., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Tappenden, James P., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Thomas, Thelma K., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Umstadter, Donald P., Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with
tenure, and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Walton, Sarah R., Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, military leave, May
1-August 17, 2003
Wellman, Henry M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Wingrove, Elizabeth R., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity
leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Wright, James K., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Wright, Henry T., Albert Clanton Spaulding Collegiate Professor of Anthropology and Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
63




September Meeting, 2003


Wrobel, Nancy H., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Xie, Yu, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor of
Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Yaffee, Steven L., Theodore Roosevelt Professor of Ecosystems Management and Professor of Natural
Resources and Environmental Policy, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and Environment,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Gone, Joseph P., Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor of American Culture,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2003-May 31,
2004 (previously reported as duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Pintrich, Paul R., Associate Dean and Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 11, 2003
Abriola, Linda M., Horace Williams King Collegiate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering
and Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
August 31, 2003
Ackermann, Christa, Lecturer in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, June 30, 2003
Armellini, Debora B., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 31, 2003
Bassler, Mary P., Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Battles, Kathleen M., Lecturer I in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2003
Bernstein, Gary M., Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2003
Bhadriraju, Srinivas, Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, August 22, 2003
Birmingham, William P., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, Associate Professor of Music, without tenure, School of Music,
and Associate Professor of Information, without tenure, School of Information, May 31, 2003
Boczar, Michael E., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School, August 31, 2003
Borsa, Paul A., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, May 31, 2003
Brennan, Kathleen A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, August 31, 2003
Charland, Paule M., Clinical Instructor in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 28, 2003
Chen, Xiang, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, July 31, 2003
Chick, Stephen E., Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, June 30, 2003
Covrig, Vicentiu M., Assistant Professor of Accounting and Finance, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, June 30, 2003
Crocker, Keith J., Waldo O. Hildebrand Professor of Risk Management and Insurance and Professor of
Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor of
Mathematics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Davies, Pamela S., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, August 14, 2003
Echandi, Gloriana, Lecturer II in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Gateward, Frances K., Assistant Professor of Film and Video Studies and Assistant Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Gondhalekar, Vijay B., Assistant Professor of Finance, UM-Flint School of Management, May 31, 2003
Gutek, Barbara, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies Program, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Human Resource Management, without tenure, School of Business Administration, July 31, 2003
Harter, Donald E., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Systems, School of Business
Administration, May 31, 2003
Heiman, Diana L., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 31, 2003
Hyland, David C., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, August 31, 2003


64




September Meeting, 2003


Jennings, William P., Lecturer II in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts,, August 31, 2003
Jones, Joni L., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Systems, School of Business
Administration, July 31, 2003
Kent, Claudia M., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, June 30, 2003
Kim, Dennis W., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Kuhn, John E., Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, July 31, 2003
Lawson, Kevin D., Lecturer III in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, August 31, 2003
Leady, Michelle A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, August 15, 2003
Ludomirsky, Achiau, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School,
July 31, 2003
MacCormack, Sabine G., Mary Ann and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Professor for the Study of Human
Understanding, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Malani, Preeti N., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Marx, Ronald W., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, August 15, 2003
Pezalla, Edmund J., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Ramey, Dawn M., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, June 30, 2003
Rochford, Rosemary A., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, July 31, 2003
Roy, Tirthankar, Assistant Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration, May 31, 2003
Sommers, Samuel R., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Stefanelli, Tammara S., Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Thakor, Anjan V., Edward J. Frey Professor of Banking and Finance and Professor of Finance, with
tenure, School of Business Administration, June 30, 2003
Whissel, Kristen M., Assistant Professor of Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2003
Wong, Sandy M., Lecturer in Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Woolley, Charles B., Lecturer in Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of Engineering,
June 30, 2003
Retired
Boyd, Eddie L., Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, August 31, 2003
Burkel, William E., Professor of Anatomical Sciences, with tenure, Medical School, October 4, 2003
McLoyd, Vonnie C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2003
Porter, Cornelia P., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, June 30, 2003
Rutherford, Robert B., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, May 31, 2003
Weissert, William G., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Health,
July 31, 2003
Term Cont eted
Aikman, James W., Assistant Professor of Music (Composition), School of Music, May 31, 2003
Bothun, Erick D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2003
Chien, Alexander J., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Cho, Soyun, Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, July 31, 2003
Cubero, Rosa Maria Serrano, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2003
Dastjerdi, Mohammad H., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2003
de Marignac, Armand Galissard, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2003
Eleftheriou, Eleni, Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2003
Foster, Michelle C., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Fulton, John W., Lecturer I in Classical Studies and Lecturer I in English Language and Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2003
Jain, Rajan, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 31, 2003
Marchetti, Silvia, Lecturer II in Italian, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2003
McPhail-Pruitt, Monica L., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 5, 2003
Perlow, Alain, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 31, 2003
Presswood, Colleen S., Lecturer in Education, School of Education, June 30, 2003
Shekut, Steve E., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Shields, Gregory S., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2003


65




September Mleeting, 2003


Singh-Parikshak, Rita, Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2003
Stitt, Jocelyn F., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature and Lecturer II in Women's Studies
Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Thomas, Richard J., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2003
CANCELLATION OF TERMINATION OF
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Achen, Christopher H., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 2003
CANCELLATION OF PREVIO USLY APPROVED
REGENTS COIMUNICATION
Li, Hongzhe, Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, September 1, 2002
(submitted June 2002)
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for 11 retiring
faculty members and called attention to the memoir for Giles Bole, dean emeritus of the
Medical School. Dr. Kelch noted that Dr. Bole had made outstanding contributions
during his tenure as dean and had focused on changing the way in which physicians are
educated, which has had a major impact on medical education.
Anthony R. Aguirre, librarian in the University Library, retired from active
faculty status on August 29, 2003, after ten years of distinguished service.
A native of Buenos Aires, Argentina, Mr. Aguirre received his B.A. degree from
the University of Washington in 1960, his M.S. degree from San Diego State University
in 1966, and his M.L.S. degree from the University of Washington in 1972. From
1966-71 he pursued a career as a scientist at the University of Colorado Medical Center
and the University of California, Los Angeles. His career as a librarian began with his
appointment as assistant director of public services at the University of Colorado
Medical Center (1974-77).   Subsequently, he served as associate director of the
University of Connecticut Health Center Library (1977-81), director of the Library of the
College of Physicians in Philadelphia (1981-89), and project leader of the Integrated
Academic Information Management System at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center
(1989-93). Mr. Aguirre joined the University of Michigan faculty as a librarian in 1993,
serving as coordinator of the health sciences libraries and head librarian of the Taubman
Medical Library.
Mr. Aguirre managed the many iterations of electronic access to Medline, the major
index for medical literature. He was also part of the University of Michigan group that
designed web pages related to nursing, genetics, dentistry, and public health/health
administration for HealthWeb, a collaborative effort among Committee on Institutional
Cooperation (CIC) libraries to provide consumer-oriented health information on a variety
of topics. Another major achievement was his shepherding of a major and complex
renovation of the Taubman Medical Library, completed in 2002. He contributed
significantly to innovations in service, instruction, and outreach for the health sciences
libraries, and made thoughtful, solid contributions in numerous other administrative roles.
Mr. Aguirre served as a consultant, reviewer, and councilor for the National Library of
Medicine and in varied and significant roles within the Medical Library Association since
1976. He was a member of the board of directors of the University of Michigan Historical
Center for the Health Sciences and a member of the CIC board of directors for
HealthWeb.


66




September Mleeting, 2003


The Regents now salute this accomplished librarian for his dedicated service by
naming Anthony R. Aguirre librarian emeritus.
Giles G. Bole, Jr., M.D., dean emeritus and professor of internal medicine in the
Medical School, retired from active faculty status on February 28, 2003.
Dr. Bole received his B.S. (1949) and M.D. (1953) degrees from the University of
Michigan and completed his internship and residency at the University of Michigan
Hospital (1953-56). He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in
1959 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1961, associate professor in 1964, and
professor in 1970. He served as director of the Rackham Arthritis Research Unit
(1969-86), chief of the Division of Rheumatology (1976-86), associate dean for clinical
affairs (1986), senior associate dean (1986-88), executive associate dean (1988-90),
interim dean (1990-91), and dean (1991-96).
As dean of the Medical School, Dr. Bole introduced a highly successful new
curriculum, oversaw construction of new research buildings, and revitalized many of the
clinical and basic science departments with new chair recruitments and resources. He
also initiated a process of cooperation and integration between the Medical School and
the University of Michigan Hospitals and developed new interdisciplinary programs such
as the University of Michigan Cancer Center.
Dr. Bole served as chair of the midwest section of the American Federation for
Clinical Research, president of the Michigan Rheumatism Society, president of the
Central Society for Clinical Research, and president of the American Rheumatism
Association. He chaired the Board of Rheumatology of the American Board of Internal
Medicine. Dr. Bole was a consultant for the National Institutes of Health, served on the
editorial boards of Arthritis and Rheumatism and Annals of Internal Medicine, and was
recognized as a Master of the American College of Rheumatology. His ideas and
accomplishments have left the University and the fields of rheumatology and medical
education stronger in ways that will be felt for many decades.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Giles G.
Bole, Jr., dean emeritus and professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Eddie L. Boyd, Pharm.D., associate professor of pharmacy in the College of
Pharmacy and clinical pharmacist at the University Hospitals, retired from active faculty
status on August 31, 2003.
Professor Boyd received his Pharm.D. degree from the University of California, San
Francisco, in 1970. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in
1971 and was promoted to associate professor in 1977. He earned his M.S. degree in
clinical research design and statistical analysis from the University of Michigan in 1989 and
served as interim head of the clinical sciences faculty from 1999-2000 and associate chair
for the Department of Clinical Sciences from 2000-01.
Professor Boyd played an important role in the development of the clinical pharmacy
program, and he was instrumental in establishing new clinical practice sites for ambulatory
care students. He was a leader in the college's conversion from a B.S. degree program to the
Pharm.D. professional degree program, which is now the national standard. Professor Boyd
was also involved in minority student recruitment and retention efforts and helped secure
federal funding to support a program that was the foundation of the college's continual,
successful efforts to create a diverse student body.
Though his research focused on a variety of issues, Professor Boyd was particularly
interested in the use of alternative medicines among African Americans. This research and
67




September Meeting, 2003


other projects related to self-care led to the creation of a popular, required course on
nonprescription drug therapeutics for pharmacy students. His latest research efforts focus on
the use of oxyetazoline as a lower-risk alternative to epinephrine when used to control gum
bleeding during oral surgery.
Professor Boyd was an active member of the Michigan Board of Pharmacy for many
years and was influential in resolving pharmacy law issues within Michigan. He used this
experience to teach pharmacy law and to serve as a resource to community pharmacy
practitioners. He was recently honored with a Career Service Award by the Association of
Black Professionals, Administrators, Faculty, and Staff at the University.
The Regents now salute this distinguished and dedicated educator by naming Eddie L.
Boyd associate professor emeritus of pharmacy.
William E. Burkel, Ph.D., professor of cell and developmental biology in the
Medical School, will retire from active faculty status on October 4, 2003, after a
productive career as an educator and researcher.
Professor Burkel received his B.A. degree from St. John's University in 1960 and
his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of North Dakota in 1962 and 1964,
respectively. From 1964-66, he was a National Institutes of Health postdoctoral fellow
at the University of North Dakota. Professor Burkel joined the University of Michigan
faculty as an instructor in 1966 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1967,
associate professor in 1971, and professor in 1982.
Upon his arrival at the University, Professor Burkel joined the gross anatomy
teaching team in the Department of Anatomy; he later became its director. From
1990-2000, he was also director of the Anatomical Donations Program. Under his
leadership, the donations program became a model of integrity and efficiency
throughout the country. Active in educational development, Professor Burkel
co-authored several editions of Woodburne's Essentials of Human Anatomy and had a
leading role in the development of the ATLAS program for computer-based instruction
in anatomy and the Computer-Assisted Instructional Laboratory. Professor Burkel was
also instrumental in development of an award-winning anatomy web site and helped
develop Radiosity, a radiologic anatomy educational tool. He received numerous
teaching awards, including the Kaiser Permanente Award for Teaching Excellence.
Although he was first and foremost a teacher, Professor Burkel also was an active
researcher. He served as the morphologist for a group studying the biology of the
prostate and for a vascular surgery group that studied the biology and pathology of
blood vessels.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming William E. Burkel professor emeritus of cell and developmental biology.
John P. Downey, associate librarian in the University Library, retired from active
faculty status on July 31, 2003, after 29 years of service.
Mr. Downey received his B.S. degree from the State University of New York at
Buffalo in 1968 and his M.A. and M.A.L.S. degrees from the University of Michigan in
1975 and 1976, respectively. He began his career at the University of Michigan as a
library assistant in 1974. He was promoted to assistant librarian in 1985 and associate
librarian in 1994.
Fluent in Persian, Mr. Downey initially worked as a book selector for materials in
Persian and reference librarian for the Persian language collection and Iranian studies.
He then became an Iranian studies and international documents librarian. In this
68




September Mleeting, 2003


position, he was an accomplished Persian language cataloguer and bibliographer for
Iranian Studies and was responsible for the greatly accelerated growth of the
international documents collection. He also was the technical expert for computer and
electronic resources in the Government Documents Center, where he contributed to the
Center's renowned web page, fostered the growth and maintenance of the Center's huge
CD-ROM collection, and was responsible for the international documents area,
statistics selection and acquisition, and general reference service.
Mr. Downey is a long-time member of the Middle East Librarians Association, a
professional association for librarians who specialize in Middle East librarianship. He
was an early contributor to the North American Union Catalogue of Middle Eastern
Serials and the Ottoman Turkish Documentation Project cooperative between Yale
University, the University of Chicago, the University of Michigan, and Princeton
University. Mr. Downey's invaluable contributions to the library's illustrious Near
Eastern collections, especially its Persian language collection, have benefited countless
scholars and graduate students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished librarian by naming John P. Downey
associate librarian emeritus.
Richard L. Fisher, D.D.S., associate professor of dentistry in the School of
Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2003.
Dr. Fisher received his B.A. degree in 1963, his D.D.S. degree in 1967, and his
M.S. degree in removable prosthodontics in 1972, all from the University of Michigan.
He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a clinical instructor in 1969 and was
appointed assistant professor in 1972 and associate professor in 1976. From 2000-02,
he served as director of a vertically integrated clinic in the school's comprehensive care
program.
During his career, Dr. Fisher has participated fully in the department's didactic
and clinical instruction for undergraduate, predoctoral, and graduate students. His
research interest was in the area of removable prosthodontics. He has served on
numerous School of Dentistry committees, including the Appointments, Promotions,
and Tenure Committee; the Clinic Operations Committee; the Curriculum Committee;
the Academic Review Board; the Student Affairs Committee; and the Emergency and
Resuscitation Committee. At the University level, he served as a member of the Senate
Assembly and on the Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics.
Dr. Fisher is a member of the American Dental Education Association, the
Michigan and American Dental Associations, the International Association for Dental
Research, the Academy of Sports Dentistry, and the Washtenaw District Dental Society.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Richard L.
Fisher associate professor emeritus of dentistry.
Joseph P. Marino, Sr., Ph.D., professor of chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts and professor of medicinal chemistry in the College of Pharmacy,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2003.
Professor Marino received his B.S. degree from The Pennsylvania State University
in 1963 and his A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard University in 1965 and 1967,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor of
chemistry in 1969 and was promoted to associate professor in 1975 and professor in
1982. In 1989, Professor Marino received an additional appointment as professor of
medicinal chemistry.
69




September Mleeting, 2003


Professor Marino's research focused on the development of new synthetic methods
in organic and medicinal chemistry. This methodology was applied to a wide variety of
natural products of medicinal interest, including anticancer agents, prostaglandins,
anti-cholesterol compounds, and alkaloids of the aspidosperma family. Professor
Marino is an internationally respected teacher, scientist, and scholar whose work has
influenced chemists around the world. He directed 36 Ph.D. students at the University
of Michigan and an additional 9 Ph.D. students at the University of Sao Paulo, Brazil,
where he was a Fulbright lecturer and researcher and developed ongoing research
collaborations. In recognition for his work in Brazil, in 1990 he was elected as a foreign
member of the Brazilian National Academy of Science.
Professor Marino is a dedicated, sincere advocate of teaching organic chemistry
with the student in mind, and he promoted scientific learning at the highest levels. He
served as associate chair of the Department of Chemistry (1989-92), associate dean for
research, computing, and facilities in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
(1994-97), and chair of the Department of Chemistry (1997-2002).  Upon his
retirement, Professor Marino was appointed the William K. Warren Foundation Dean of
Science at the University of Notre Dame.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Joseph P. Marino,
Sr., professor emeritus of chemistry and professor emeritus of medicinal chemistry.
Vonnie C. McLoyd, Ph.D., professor of psychology and Afroamerican and
African studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active
faculty status on August 31, 2003.
Professor McLoyd received her B.A. degree from Talladega College in 1971 and
her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1973 and 1975,
respectively. She joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in
1978 and was promoted to associate professor in 1984 and professor in 1988. She was
also affiliated with the Center for Human Growth and Development as associate
research scientist (1988-91), research scientist (1991-98), and senior research scientist
(1998-2002).
Professor McLoyd's scholarship helped shape the field of developmental
psychology as her interests evolved from traditional developmental psychology to a
more expansive and creative view of the field. Focusing on how a child develops
socially and how social interactions influence cognitive development, Professor
McLoyd came to recognize the ways in which the environment and social context,
especially race, ethnicity, and poverty, influence development. Her work has helped
change the perspective of the field and has led to a widespread recognition of how
socio-environmental factors influence the health, well-being, and developmental
experiences of children, adolescents, and their families.
Most notable among the many honors Professor McLoyd has received is a
MacArthur Fellowship, which was awarded in 1996. She has also received the Reuben
Hill Award from the National Council on Family Relations, a Faculty Scholar Award in
Child Mental Health from the William T. Grant Foundation, and a minority-group
scholar fellowship from the Rockefeller Foundation. Other scholarly activities include
participation in the MacArthur Network on Transition to Adulthood, the Council of the
Foundation of Child Development, and the Advisory Board of the National Center for
Children in Poverty.


70




September Meeting, 2003


The Regents now salute this distinguished psychologist by naming Vonnie C.
McLoyd professor emerita of psychology and Afroamerican and African Studies.
Tong-Wha Shyn, Ph.D., research scientist in the College of Engineering, retired
from active faculty status on December 31, 2002.
Dr. Shyn received his B.S. degree from Seoul National University in South Korea
in 1959, his M.A. degree from Wayne State University in 1965, and his Ph.D. degree
from the University of Michigan in 1969. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty as a research associate in the Space Physics Research Laboratory in 1969 and
was promoted to associate research scientist in 1973 and research scientist in 1989.
During his career, Dr. Shyn maintained an active research program in atomic and
molecular physics. He developed unique laboratory experiments for measuring electron
impact cross sections of gases, including differential elastic, excitation, and ionization
cross sections and cross sections of particular interest in space studies, such as the
physics of the earth's and other planets' atmospheres. Dr. Shyn collaborated with
numerous investigators in the Space Physics Research Laboratory to provide
cross-section measurements of interest, and he published his results extensively in the
Physical Review journals of the American Physical Society. In addition, he served as
principal investigator and project director for numerous programs sponsored by NASA
and the National Science Foundation.
Dr. Shyn has been an active member of the Korean Scientists and Engineers of
America and served as the president of the Michigan Chapter. He has also maintained
active business and community involvement by serving as president of KLS Associates
of Ann Arbor and as a board member and deacon of the Korean Bible Church of Ann
Arbor.
The Regents now salute this distinguished researcher for his dedicated service by
naming Tong-Wha Shyn research scientist emeritus.
James R. Taylor, Ph.D., professor of marketing in the School of Business
Administration, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2003.
Professor Taylor received his B.B.A. degree from the University of Iowa in 1960
and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Minnesota in 1964 and 1967,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1967
and was promoted to associate professor in 1970 and professor in 1975. Professor
Taylor was appointed the Sebastian S. Kresge Distinguished Endowed Professor of
Marketing from 1978-88.
A dedicated teacher and scholar, Professor Taylor's research activities included a
needs-based market segmentation project which explored new concepts in needs-based
segmentation and the implications for market-based strategies.  He also studied
value-based market planning processes in a project involving a study of firms that use
market-driven planning systems and the organizational dynamics underlying the
implantation to such systems.
Professor Taylor has been a strong teacher in a number of areas. He was one of
the senior faculty members in the executive education program, where he taught the
acclaimed "Competitive Marketing" course. He has been active in his profession as
well, serving as an ad hoc reviewer for the field's top journals and as a member of
several editorial boards.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James R. Taylor professor
emeritus of marketing.
71




September Meeting, 2003


William G. Weissert, Ph.D., professor of health management and policy and chair
of the Department of Health Management and Policy in the School of Public Health and
senior research scientist in the Institute of Gerontology, retired from active faculty status
on July 31, 2003.
Professor Weissert received his B.S. degree from Portland State University (1967), his
M.S. degree from Northwestern University (1968), and his Ph.D. degree from the Claremont
Graduate School (1972). He served in senior staff and administrative roles at the TransCentury
Corporation (1971-76), the National Center for Health Services Research (1976-81), and the
Urban Institute Health Policy Center (1981-83), and was director of the University of North
Carolina's Program on Aging from 1983-89. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as
a professor and research scientist in 1989 and was promoted to senior research scientist and
appointed department chair in 1997.
Early in his career, Professor Weissert and colleagues used a number of data sources
to document current patterns of long-term care utilization. Prevalence estimates of the
long-term care population were used by state and federal agencies as the basis of resource
allocation decisions.  In addition, Professor Weissert evaluated the limitations of
long-term care insurance and the potential for using home equity to pay for it, and his
descriptions of two models of adult day care provided the basic taxonomy for that
newly-developing care venue. His best-known work addressed the cost-effectiveness of
home care services and recommended payment methods to improve efficiency and
effectiveness. He also showed that in nursing homes, incentive payments can extend
patients' lives and shorten length of stay. Professor Weissert is recognized as one of the
top researchers in long-term care and aging. He is an outstanding scholar, an excellent
teacher, a highly-capable administrator, and an important contributor to health services
delivery systems in Michigan.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming William G. Weissert
professor emeritus of health management and policy and senior research scientist
emeritus.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for Paul R.
Pintrich, professor of education and professor of psychology.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on July 12, 2003, of Paul R. Pintrich, professor of education, School of
Education, and professor of psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Professor Pintrich was born on November 4, 1953. He received his Ph.D. degree
in 1982 from the Combined Program in Education and Psychology at the University of
Michigan, where he also obtained an M.A. degree in developmental psychology. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1987 as an assistant professor of education
and was promoted to associate professor in 1993 and professor in 1998. He was
appointed professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts in
1999. He served as associate dean for research in the School of Education (1998-2001)
and chair of the Combined Program in Education and Psychology
Professor Pintrich was a fellow of the American Psychological Association and
had been a National Academy of Education Spencer Postdoctoral Fellow. In 1999 he
won the Best Research Review Article Award from the American Educational Research
Association for an article on the development of epistemological thinking. He has been
a visiting fellow at Oxford University and a distinguished visiting scholar at Ben
Gurion University in Israel. He also received the Class of 1923 Memorial Award from
72




September Mleeting, 2003


the College of Literature, Science, and Arts and the School of Education for excellence
in undergraduate teaching. He taught courses in educational psychology, child and
adolescent development, motivation, and learning.
Recognized as one of the world's leading researchers in motivation and learning,
Professor Pintrich was widely acknowledged as one of the foremost scholars in his
field, both here and abroad. His research focused on the development of motivation,
epistemological thinking, and self-regulated learning in adolescence and led to the
publication of over 120 articles, book chapters, and books.
Professor Pintrich was dearly loved and respected by all his friends and colleagues
within the University. His untimely passing represents an enormous loss for us all. As
we mourn the loss of this great scholar, teacher and advisor, our condolences go to his
wife Elisabeth, his son Bill, his parents, and his sisters.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agendas On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year Ended June 30, 2003
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that the Regents would be receiving review
copies of the University's comprehensive financial statements for fiscal year 2003 under
separate cover, and they would be submitted for approval at the October 2003 meeting.
2003-2004 All Campus Budget Book
The Regents received the 2003-2004 All Campus Budget Book.
Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents that follow-on investments
had been made in the following three previously approved alternative asset partnerships:
Greenfield Acquisition Partners III, L.P. ($30 million); CT Mezzanine Partners III, L.P.
($10 million); and Bennett Restructuring Fund ($10 million).
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $15 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Rockwood Capital Real Estate Partners Fund V, L.P.
Donor Pooled Income Fund
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents approved
American Funds' Capital Income Builder (CIB) mutual fund as the investment vehicle for
the Donor Pooled Income Fund.
Fixed Income Management
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved modifying the mandate for the fixed income account managed by
Bridgewater Asset Management to allow small exposures to other types of investments to
add value to their primary assignment of providing exposure to Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities.


73




September Meeting, 2003


Private Equity Investment
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to ~20 million (approximately $22 million)
from the Long Term Portfolio to Permira Europe III, a pan-European private equity fund
that will invest in European growth and buy-out transactions.
Literature, Science, and the Arts (LS&A) Building Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that the design of this building has been
changed to accommodate the majority of the mechanical equipment in the basement,
rather than on top of the building, eliminating 6,500 gross square feet of penthouse space.
He noted that this is the last of four major core academic undergraduate building
renovations in the original project to be completed on the Ann Arbor campus with State of
Michigan capital outlay funding. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent
Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved issuing the Literature, Science, and the Arts
Building Renovation Project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
College  of Engineering  Advanced   Technologies Laboratories Biomedical
Engineering Project
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously authorized issuing the College of Engineering, Advanced Technologies
Laboratories Biomedical Engineering Project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget. Executive Vice President
Slottow noted that the 94 total parking spaces needed for this project will be
accommodated by the University's North Campus parking expansion plans.
College of Engineering Computer Science and Engineering Building
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the College of Engineering Computer Science and
Engineering Building Project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
Matthaei Botanical Gardens Boilers and Water Heater Replacement
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Matthaei Botanical Gardens Boilers and Water Heater
Replacement Project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing
the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
Central Power Plant Replacement of Steam Pressure Reducing Valves
Executive Vice President Slottow commented on the phenomenal performance of
Central Power Plant staff during the blackout that occurred on August 15, 16, and 17, and
he thanked them on behalf of the University. The investment in planning and training
over many years paid off.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Central Power Plant Replacement of Steam Pressure


74




September Meeting, 2003


Reducing Valves Project and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Central Power Plant 480 Volt Station Power System Upgrade, South Side
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Central Power Plant 480 Volt Station Power System Upgrade,
South Side Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
North Campus Chiller Plant Project (NCCP)
Executive Vice President Slottow pointed out that this project is the result of several
years of effort to develop a comprehensive chilling plan for North Campus that will serve
existing and anticipated buildings on North Campus, while saving capital and operating
costs. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the North Campus Chiller Plant Project as described and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that
bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Medical School Medical Science Unit I Cyclotron
Relocation/Addition Project
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a revised budget for the University of Michigan Medical School
Medical Science Unit I Cyclotron Relocation/Addition Project and authorized issuing the
project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospitals Neuro Angio BiPlane Imaging Equipment Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC Neuro Angio BiPlane Imaging Equipment
Replacement Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital Procedures Recovery Expansion Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the (UMHHC) University Hospital Procedures Recovery
Expansion Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Creation of a Subsidiary Corporation to M-Care
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved creation of a wholly owned subsidiary corporation of M-Care for
the purpose of developing and offering PPO products and authorized M-Care to provide
funding for the new corporation in the form of an equity transfer in an amount up to $10.5
million, as described in the Regents Communication.


75




September Meeting, 2003


University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Relocation of
Clinical Labs Project - Traverwood 1II Leasehold Improvements
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC Relocation of Clinical Labs Project, as described in
the Regents Communication.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman noted that the agenda includes 20 conflict of interest items, each
of which requires 6 votes for approval. She said that these would be considered together
as a block, in one vote, unless any Regent requests individual consideration of, or recusal
from voting on, a particular item. Accordingly, there being no requests for individual
consideration or recusal, on a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the
Regents unanimously approved each of the following items.
Lease Agreement between the University of Michigan and Traverwood II LLC
The Regents approved a lease agreement for property located at 2910 Huron
Parkway to be leased from Traverwood II LLC. Because William C. Martin is a member
of Traverwood II LLC, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Traverwood II LLC.
2.   The service to be provided is the lease of 16,600 square feet of building space at 2910
Huron Parkway for ten years, beginning January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2014,
beginning at a monthly rate of $30,433 and ending at an estimated monthly rate of
$42,929. Under the lease agreement, the landlord will be contributing $830,000
towards proposed leasehold improvements that total $4,935,000. The landlord will be
responsible for managing the construction of the desired leasehold improvements.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is a member of Traverwood II LLC.
Lease Agreement between the University of Michigan and William C. Martin
The Regents approved a lease agreement for property located at 330 East Liberty
Street, owned by William C. Martin. Because William C. Martin is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The  following  information  is provided   in  compliance  with  statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the lease agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
William C. Martin.
2.   The service to be provided is a continuation of a lease agreement for 7,800 square feet
of building space at 330 East Liberty Street for ten years and one month, beginning
October 1, 2003 through October 31, 2013, beginning at a monthly rate of $13,325
and ending at an estimated monthly rate of $17,390. Under the lease agreement, the
landlord is responsible for constructing any desired leasehold improvements.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the owner of the property at 330 East Liberty Street.
Authorization for Payment for Hesseltine & DeMason Design Inc.
The Regents approved payment to Hesseltine & DeMason Design Inc. for design
and printing of a brochure for the Department of Otolaryngology. Because Douglas


76




September Meeting, 2003


Hesseltine is a partner in Hesseltine & DeMason Design Inc. and is also a University of
Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The   following   information   is provided   in  compliance   with   statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Otolaryngology and Hesseltine & DeMason Design Inc.
2.   The goods and services provided are design and printing of a brochure. The cost for
the service is $3,200.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Douglas Hesseltine, a University of
Michigan employee, is a partner in Hesseltine & DeMason Design Inc.
Approval of Payment for Xoran Technologies
The Regents approved a payment to Xoran Technologies to fund a portion of
compensation for MBA interns in the Marcel Gani Internship Program. Because Neal H.
Clinthorne is a stockholder in Xoran Technologies and is also a University of Michigan
employee, this purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies and Xoran Technologies.
2.   The service provided is placement of student interns. The cost for the service is a
maximum of $6,000 per intern, with a possibility of 2 intern placements, for a total of
$12,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Neal H. Clinthorne, a University of
Michigan employee, is a stockholder in Xoran Technologies.
Authorization for an Increase in Amount of Purchasing Agreement with
Clark-M:XR, inc.
The Regents approved an increase in the amount of a purchasing agreement between
the Center for Ultrafast Optical Science and Clark-MXR, Inc.. Because Gerard Mourou is
a University of Michigan employee and is also a stockholder and board member of Clark
MXR, this purchasing agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Center for Ultrafast Optical Science and Clark-MXR, Inc..
2.   The goods and services provided are parts and repair. The total cost for the service
and parts is $16,188, of which $8,060 has been approved.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Gerard Mourou, a University of
Michigan employee, is a stockholder and board member of Clark-MXR, Inc..
Purchasing Contract with Valley View Farm
The Regents approved a purchasing contract between the Reproductive Sciences
Program and Valley View Farm. Because the sole owner of Valley View Farm, Dennis
Doop, is also a University of Michigan employee, this contract falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided by statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Reproductive Sciences Program and Valley View Farm.
2.   The product to be provided is sheep for the purpose of medical research, with the
sheep to be provided for the period beginning June 4, 2003 and ending June 3, 2005,
for a total dollar amount of $13,600.


77




September Meeting, 2003


3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Douglas Doop, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole owner of Valley View Farm.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Purdue
University
The Regents approved a subcontract with Purdue University to support the
collaborative activities of Professor Linda Katehi of Purdue University for the project,
"Miniaturized Antennas with Electromagnetic Meta Materials." Because Professor
Katehi is on a leave of absence from the University of Michigan with a 0% appointment,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Purdue University
2.   The agreement with Purdue University is for the entire performance period December
1, 2002 through June 30, 2005, at a total cost of $644,676. The University's standard
subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Professor Katehi has no pecuniary interest in the agreement.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Instrumentation
Associates, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Instrumentation Associates, Inc. that will enable Thomas Zurbuchen, a professor in
the Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences to assist in the performance
of funded research. Because Dr. Ronald Berliner is founder, owner and president of
Instrumentation Associates, Inc. and is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Instrumentation
Associates, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is nine (9) months and the amount of funding support is $12,189.
3.   Dr. Berliner's pecuniary interest arises from his status as founder, owner, and
president of Instrumentation Associates, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. ("TSRL")
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. ("TSRL") for funding of a research
project in the School of Dentistry. Because Dr. Gordon Amidon, an owner of TSRL, and
Phillip Kish, an employee of TSRL, are also University of Michigan employees, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Therapeutic Systems
Research Laboratories, Inc. ("TSRL").
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is three (3) years and the amount of funding support is $154,217.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Kish and Dr. Amidon arise from their status as employee
and owner, respectively, of TSRL.


78




September Meeting, 2003


Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and ElectroDynamic
Applications, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc. (hereafter, "Company") for funding of a project in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. Because Dr. Alec Gallimore and Dr.
Brian Gilchrist are co-founders and co-owners of the Company and are also University of
Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.  The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and ElectroDynamic
Applications, Inc. ("Company").
2.   The terms of the Agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is six (6) months and the amount of funding support is $49,725.
3.   Dr. Gallimore's and Dr. Gilchrist's pecuniary interest arises from their status as
co-founders and co-owners of the Company.
Amendment to Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and
the Veridian Systems Division, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and the Veridian Systems Division, Inc. to support the collaborative activities of Dr.
David Walker of Veridian Systems Division, Inc. on the project, "Design of a High-Speed
Friction Drag Reduction Experiment Using the William B. Morgan Large Cavitation
Channel." Because Dr. Walker also holds a 0% appointment as an associate research
scientist at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Veridian Systems
Division, Inc.
2.   The subcontract to Veridian Systems Division, Inc., is for $325,088 for the period
covering November 26, 2002 through December 31, 2003. The period of performance
on this award has been extended. The terms of the Agreement conform to University
policy.
3.   Dr. Walker's pecuniary interest stems from his position as an employee of Veridian
Systems Division.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Neural Intervention
Technologies, Inc. ("NIT")
The Regents approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Neural Intervention Technologies, Inc. that will involve an inter-institutional agreement
with  Arizona  State University  providing  Michigan  exclusive control of these
technologies: UM File #2330 ("Alginate Polymer Chain Modification to Customize
Tissue Reactivity for Endovascular Occlusion of Blood Vessels"); UM File #2501
("Modification of Endovascular Coils with Alginate to Improve Occlusion of Vascular
Defects"); UM File #2522 ("Alginate Dural Sealant"); and UM File #2523 ("Diffusion of
Molecules from Alginate for Therapeutic Treatment"). Because Daryl Kipke and Tim
Becker are both partial owners of NIT and are also University of Michigan employees,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflate of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


79




September Meeting, 2003


1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Neural
Intervention Technologies, Inc. (NIT).
2.   Licensing terms:
Field of Use: All fields
Grant: Exclusive, Worldwide
Patent Costs: NIT will reimburse the University for costs incurred during the license.
Back patent costs will be paid in quarterly installments over a 24-month period.
Equity: 12% of the outstanding shares at the effective date of the agreement. One
half, or 6%, will be provided directly to ASU at the time of the license.
Royalties: Five percent (5%) of NET SALES. The total royalty may be reduced if
one or more of the patents filed by UM are not issued and will be reduced for the
period of time that NIT is required to pay back its grant from the MLSC.
Minimum royalties beginning in 2006 of $25,000 increasing in step fashion to
$250,000 three years after first commercial sale or by 2010, whichever is earlier.
Sliding percentage of sublicense income from 30% down to 15% if sublicense is
entered into 2 years after license.
Performance criteria: Specific milestones must be met in order to maintain the rights
granted by the license. Milestone payments will be due upon successful completion of
milestones.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents.
No use of University services or facilities is obligated under the license agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Daryl Kipke and Tim Becker arises from their ownership
interest in NIT. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing of
revenue received by the University from the company.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and LivingText, LLC
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and LivingText, LLC that will involve collaboration with LivingText, LLC. Because
Perry Samson and Deborah Gibson are owners and/or employees of LivingText, LLC, and
are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.      The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and LivingText, LLC.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The amount of
funding for the project is an estimated $160,000, incrementally funded over a
four-year period.
3.   Perry Samson's and Deborah Gibson's pecuniary interest arises from their status as
owners and/or employees of LivingText.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and GMP
Immunotherapeutics ("GMP")
The Regents approved a proposed license agreement between the University of
Michigan and GMP Immunotherapeutics ("GMP") to practice and commercialize a
portfolio of inventions owned by the University of Michigan. These include: UM File
#1671 and related continuations and continuations-in-part entitled "Method for treatment
of autoimmune disease"; UM File #1978 entitled "Method for identifying therapeutically
useful cytotoxic agents;" UM File #2294 entitled "Novel molecular targets for
chemotherapy;" and UM File #2606 entitled "New cytotoxic antiproliferative agents."
Because partial owners of GMP, Gary Glick and Anthony Opipari, are also University of
Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest


80




September Meeting, 2003


Statute.   The   following   information  is provided   in  compliance with     statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and GMP Immunotherapeutics
("GMP").
2.   Licensing terms:
Field of Use: All fields
Grant: Exclusive, Worldwide in the Field of Use
Patent Costs: GMP will reimburse the University for costs incurred during the
license. Back patent costs up to $50,000 will be reimbursed at the time of the license.
License Fee: $150,000 at license signing, $125,000 within 1 years, $125,000 within
2 years.
Equity: 3% of the outstanding shares at first round of financing of at least $10
million.
Royalties: Two percent (2%) of annual NET SALES of less than $50 million; 3% of
annual NET SALES over $50 million.
Sliding percentage of sublicense income from 15% down to 10% after the second
year.
Minimum royalties: $25,000 escalating to $100,000 3 years after first commercial
sale.
Performance criteria: Specific milestones must be met in order to maintain the rights
granted by the license. Milestone payments will be due upon successful completion of
milestones.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents.
No use of University services or facilities is obligated under the license agreement.
A Sponsored Research agreement of no less than $1.5 million over 5 years will be put
into effect within 90 days of execution of the license agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Glick and Opipari arise from their ownership interest
in GMP. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue
received by the University from the company.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Dentigenix, LLC
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Dentigenix, LLC ("Company") to enable Dr. Paul Krebsbach, a University of
Michigan faculty member, to assist in the performance of funded research in the role of
principal investigator. Dr. Krebsbach is also a member of the Company's scientific
advisory board and has been offered stock options available to him relative to the
Company. In addition, Dr. R. Bruce Rutherford, an adjunct faculty member in the School
of Dentistry, is also chief scientific officer, co-owner, and co-founder of the Company.
Therefore, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Dentigenix, LLC.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is twelve (12) months and the amount of funding support is sixty
thousand dollars ($60,000). The project will be directed by Dr. Krebsbach.
3.   Dr. Rutherford's pecuniary interest arises from his status as an owner of Dentigenix,
LLC.   Dr. Krebsbach's pecuniary interest arises from his membership on the
Company's scientific advisory board and the availability of stock options relative to
the Company. Dr. Krebsbach has agreed to give up the stock options in the Company
while the project is ongoing.


81




September Meeting, 2003


Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and NotABook, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of
Michigan and NotABook, Inc. Because Dr. Rees Midgley, co-founder, co-owner, and
president of NotABook, Inc., and Dr. Lewis Kleinsmith, co-founder, co-owner, and
treasurer of NotABook, Inc., are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and NotABook, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is fourteen (14) months and the amount of funding support is $13,341.
3.   Drs. Midgley and Kleinsmith's pecuniary interest arises from their status as
co-founder, co-owner, and president (Midgley) and co-founder, co-owner, and
treasurer (Kleinsmith) of NotABook, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and NanoCure
Corporation
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and NanoCure Corporation. Dr. James R. Baker, Jr., a University of Michigan faculty
member, is part owner of NanoBio Corporation, and NanoBio Corporation has created a
wholly-owned subsidiary called NanoCure Corporation (hereinafter, Company). Because
Dr. Baker is both an owner of the Company and a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and NanoCure Corporation.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. Dr. Baker will be
the principal investigator for the project at the University to be conducted over a
three-year period at an estimated total cost of $1,274,438 including indirect cost at
20% (the rate applicable to the MLSCF). The Company will receive a subcontract in
the amount of $187,075. Dr. Baker will only participate in the project in his capacity
as a University employee.
3.   Dr. Baker's pecuniary interest arises from his status as an owner of the Company.
Subcontract Agreement between          the  University   of Michigan     and   Neural
Intervention Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Neural Intervention Technologies, Inc. (hereinafter, "Company") for the Company to
provide services under a grant received by the University of Michigan. Dr. Daryl R.
Kipke is a University of Michigan employee who will be serving as principal investigator
on the project, and is also part owner of the Company. Therefore the proposed research
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Neural Intervention
Technologies, Inc. ("Company").
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. Dr. Kipke will be
the principal investigator for the project at the University to be conducted over a
three-year period at an estimated total cost of $2,249,103 including indirect costs at
20% (the rate applicable to the MLSCF). The Company will receive a subcontract in
the amount of $1,037,772. Dr. Kipke will only participate in the project in his
capacity as a University employee. Approval has been obtained for use of human
subjects in this project.


82




September Meeting, 2003


3.   Dr. Kipke's pecuniary interest arises from his part-ownership in the Company.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and the University of
Notre Dame
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and the University of Notre Dame involving collaborative work with Dr. James Kolata.
Because Dr. Kolata is both a faculty member at the University of Notre Dame and adjunct
professor at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the University of Notre
Dame.
2.   The agreement with the University of Notre Dame is for approximately $37,173 and is
anticipated to cover the period April 1, 2003 through June 30, 2004. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply.
3.   Dr. Kolata has no pecuniary interest in the agreement.
Research    Agreements     between   the   University   of Michigan     and    Nephros
Therapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved research agreements between the University of Michigan
and Nephros Therapeutics, Inc. (hereafter, "Company") involving two projects in the
Medical School. Because Dr. H. David Humes, a University of Michigan employee, is
also a director and partial owner of the Company, these agreements fall under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreements are the University of Michigan and Nephros Therapeutics,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreements conform to University policy. For Project 1,
the MLSCF grant will be directed by Joseph Messana, M.D., of the Department of
Internal Medicine as the principal investigator. The total grant to the University is
$1,432,230 over a two-year period at a 20% indirect cost rate. The subcontract
portion to Nephros is $904,882. Nephros is required to contribute significant in-kind
cost-sharing to this effort. For Project 2, the Nephros sponsored project entitled
"Optimization of Tubule Assist Device" will be directed by Dr. Humes over a
six-month period at an estimated cost of $239,758 at an indirect cost rate of 58%.
These studies have been reviewed and approved by the appropriate animal use or
human subjects institutional review board.
3.   Dr. Hume's pecuniary interest arises from his status as a director and partial owner of
Nephros Therapeutics, Inc.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:45 p.m. The next
meeting will be held October 16, 2003.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice _President and Secretary of the -Universkity


83




September Meeting, 2003


84




October Meeting, 2003


OCTOBER MEETING, 2003
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 16, 2003
The Regents convened at 1:50 p.m. in the Michigan Rooms, Harding Mott
University Center, at the University of Michigan-Flint.  Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Richner, and White.
Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President
Kelch, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President
Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice
President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Newman, Regent Taylor, and
Vice President Krislov were absent.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and announced that Public
Comments would be the first order of business.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from David Boyle, alumnus, on "erasing hazing."
Comments from President Coleman
President Coleman thanked Chancellor Mestas and the Flint campus community for
hosting the meeting. She called attention to the Flint Public School Improvement
Initiative, whose goal is to improve the academic performance of Flint Public School
children, and to "Project Export", a $1.3 million grant awarded to the School of Health
Professions and Studies by the National Institutes of Health to decrease health disparities
in the greater Flint community.
President Coleman also noted that the Intramural Sports Building ("IM Building")
on the Ann Arbor campus is celebrating its 75th anniversary. This was the first
university-owned intramural athletics building in the country and was constructed under
the direction of Elmer Dayton Mitchell, the first director of the University's intramural
athletic program, which was the nation's first intramural athletic program. She also
announced that the 100-year-old Samuel T. Dana Building, which houses the School of
Natural Resources and Environment, was being rededicated on October 17.
Ann Arbor Central Campus Ilannin    sses, President Coleman noted that the
meeting agenda included a request for appointment of an architect for expansion and
renovation of the Museum of Art. She noted that this project is a precursor to the next
step in master planning for the Ann Arbor campus, which will provide for continued
work on core central campus academic programs and addressing of faculty needs. She
then made the following comments about her academic vision for central campus and
the future of the academic programs and facilities that now occupy central campus
space.
I think -we have a tremendous opportunity to encourage acadenmic links among
units on the Central, Vfedical, and North Campuses. I want our planning efforts to


85




October Meeting, 2003


build on existing programmatic connections and create exciting new links. At the same
time, we need to address facility issues that are vital to a number of academic
programs and to prepare us for growth opportunities. Fortunately, we have excellent
faculty and sound ormganization structures already in place and ready to provide the
necessary leadership.
Somee of the fcility needs, like the condition of the Frieze Building, are well
known and simply must be attended to. But I do not see merit in addressing these
issues one-by-one without considering how they can work together as an integrated
whole. We have very good ideas in development that have to be woven together with
our academic priorities clearly in mind.
I have asked our leadership team   to outline the components of a
comprehensive planning effort to address the next set of central campus issues and
opportunities including the following:
"* We have talked about my expectations that we continue to enhance life sciences
programming and linkages. I want our approach to life sciences to be quite broad
with many departments and disciplines involved. Our two biology departments
will be key to the foundation and successful integration of life sciences more
broadly across the campus. LS&A Dean Terry McDonald will play an important
role in this development.
"* We have several strong programs in the neurosciences, and we will need to build
on these strengths in ways that also reinforce Michigan's broader role in the life
sciences. I have asked Terry McDonald, Allen Lichter, Paul Courant, and Bob
Kelch to identify the University's capabilities and a plan for future growth,
includingfaculty and facilities.
"* As we look at the Frieze Building, we know it will require either replacement or
renovation in the relatively near future. It houses quite a bit of classroom space,
along with humanities programs and the Department of Theater and Drama.
We're hopeful that this department will be able to move into North Campus as part
of the Walgreen Drama Center planning--and of course, there will be the practical
consideration of swing space when Frieze is off-line.
"* Finding the right links between North Campus and Central Campus are also
important considerations. As one example, the School of Information space is
currently split between Central and North Campus. We need to consider how best
to accommodate future growth for programs such as the School of Information
and others now occupying Central Campus space.
The University 's academic priorities and needs will drive the next steps in our
Central Campus planning effort.  The plan needs to accommodate growth and
emerging strengths, and it must design improved space for the next generation of our
academic programs, which    we know   will be very   cross-disciplinary  and
technology-dependent.
I am engaged in a discussion with Paul, Tim, Bob, and Terry McDonald to
continue developing this in much greater detail. And we will work with our colleagues
on campus with a goal of bringing a more detailed outline to you sometime later this
year. We expect this to be a complex planning effort that will likely take up to two
years to fully complete, but we should be able to plan on holding substantive
discussions about priorities and needs very soon.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee.          Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and received the following reports:


86




October Meeting, 2003


Annual Report of Investments. Regent Brandon noted that the agenda had
included a meeting with Erik Lundberg, chief investment officer, who is responsible for
oversight of the University's $5.4 billion in financial assets. Mr. Lundberg presented
the annual investment report as of June 30, 2003. He noted that two-thirds of the
financial assets are in the Long Term Portfolio, and the remaining portion is in
shorter-term, cash management accounts. Mr. Lundberg reported that the Long Term
Portfolio investment return for the one-year period ending June 30, 2003 was a positive
5.4%, which is noteworthy considering the difficulties of the financial markets over the
past several years. Over a five-year time period, the Long Term Portfolio outperformed
every benchmark in every asset class and had a total return of 9.2%, which also
outperformed its benchmarks. Measuring the five-year returns versus those of the
endowment universe, the University is in the top portion of the top quartile. Regent
Brandon praised the outstanding short-term, near-term, and long-term results achieved
by Mr. Lundberg and his team. He noted that the annual investment report is on file in
the Office of the Vice President and Secretary of the University.
External Audit Report. Regent Brandon reported that the committee had met
with Darryl Burks and Bill Stulginski of PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC) for a final
review of the audit results for the year ending June 30, 2003. They had also met with
University officials who work with the auditing firm, including Tim Slottow, executive
vice president and chief financial officer; Cheryl Soper, controller; and Russ Fleming,
manager of financial reporting. Regent Brandon announced that the results of the audit
of the University of Michigan financial statements for the year ended June 30, 2003
were found to be in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.
Furthermore, the scope was consistent with previous discussions with the committee,
which was to obtain reasonable but not absolute assurance about whether the financial
statements were free from material misstatements. PricewaterhouseCoopers reported
that it had received complete access to all necessary records, documents, and
information, and that it had received full cooperation from University employees. In
addition, no material weaknesses were found in any internal controls. There were no
management comments resulting from the audit that would require communication to
the Regents, and PWC planned to issue an unqualified opinion of the 2003 financial
statements. The entire audit report is on file in the Office of the Vice President and
Secretary of the University.
Regent Brandon noted that the Finance, Audit and Investment Committee had met
privately with the PWC auditors to learn whether they had any concerns or whether there
were irregularities in the way the audit was conducted or in the interaction with management.
The auditors reported that there were no irregularities and they had no concerns.
Information Technology Security. Regent Brandon reported that the committee
had met with staff members with responsibility for information technology security:
Laura Patterson, associate vice president for administration information systems, and
Paul Howell, senior systems research programmer, who is a computer security expert.
Items discussed included all of the challenges involved with information technology
security in higher education and an update on the status of the University's disaster
recovery plans. Regent Brandon stated that as a result of the meeting, the Regents have
a great deal of confidence in the attention being paid to these areas, although it is an
area that will continue to require a good deal of attention.


87




October Meeting, 2003


Internal Audit Report. The committee met with Robert Moenart, executive
director of University audits, and received an update on all internal audits that occurred
in the period July 3, 2003 through September 30, 2003. They also met with him alone
to determine whether there are any irregularities or problems in support received from
management, and none were reported.
Compensation and Personnel Com ittee Regent Maynard commented that the
committee had met and is reviewing reference materials on the evaluation process. It
also established a meeting schedule and agenda topics through June 2004.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes, Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of September 18, 2003.
Reports, Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Plant Extension Report,
the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report, and the Regents' Report on
Non-Competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources, July 16, 2003 through
September 15, 2003.
Litigation Report. The Regents received the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, September 1 - September 3, 2003.
University of Michigan Health System.   Executive Vice President Kelch
commented that on October 6 and 7, 90 quality improvement teams had presented their
work at University Hospitals, with very impressive accomplishments and ideas. He
also noted that construction of the steel infrastructure of the Biomedical Sciences
Research Building was almost complete and that site preparation work had begun on the
Cardiovascular Center. He called attention to the recommended appointment of Dr.
James Carpenter as chair of the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery. Dr. Kelch also
reported that the first quarter financial report for the Hospitals and Health Centers are
very positive, at $4 million above budget.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper had no additional report.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported on the self-study
process that had culminated in a visit to campus from the accreditation team. The
informal feedback from the team was extremely positive, especially with regard to
support for the campus by external constituent groups; excellent facilities; and
establishing and maintaining relationships with regional constituents.  He also
commented on the impact of the campus's engineering programs on the automotive and
manufacturing sectors in southeast Michigan. He called attention to the recommended
appointment of Tom Baird as vice chancellor for institutional advancement.
University  of Michigan-Flint.  Chancellor Mestas introduced Dr. Kristen
Skivington, director of university outreach, who moderated a panel of students and
faculty highlighting academic service learning activities and experiences on the Flint
campus and how they had changed the lives of those participating in these activities.


88




October Meeting, 2003


Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Reports on Voluntary
Support as of September 30, 2003
Alcoa Mill Products, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering and
the School of Business Administration................................................... $50,000
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics................................................. 50,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research  in  the M edical School......................................  48,995
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Medical School and
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................  108,487
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Department of Kinesiology and the Medical School......................... 118,178
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical Schoolc.....................................................  149,546
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, Rockville, Maryland
for scholarships in the College of Pharmacy................................................ 24,000
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering and the Medical School.............................. 30,778
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School.................................................  70,000
American Psychoanalytic Association, New York, New York
for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................. 20,000
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in the College of Pharmacy and the Medical School................................ 42,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Martha Cook Building Fund at the University of Michigan.............................. 10,000
Apple Computer, Inc., Austin, Texas
for support in  the College of Engineering..................................................  15,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health................................ 82,750
Morris and Beverly Baker Foundation, Windsor, Ontario, Canada
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Mardigian Library............................... 10,000
Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, Irvine, California
for research  in  the College of Pharmacy................................................... 80,000
Carlos and Gloria Wille Bell Trust
for the Gloria W. and Carlos R. Bell Scholarships in the Colleges of Engineering, and
Literature, Science, and  the  Arts........................................................  300,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................. 56,250
James L. Betchek, Berrien Springs
for the James L. Betchek Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics..................... 15,500
Josef S. Blass, Pittsboro, North Carolina
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 12,000
R. H. Bluestein & Company, Birmingham
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................  10,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 62,000
Ila W. Butala, Fort Myers, Florida
for the Ila W. Butala Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Law School............ 50,000
Cap CURE, Santa Monica, California
for research in the M edical School......................................................  100,000
Kay Dwyer Chamberlain, Mount Pleasant
for scholarships in the School of Nursing..................................................  10,000
Hans C. Coester, Fort Collins, Colorado
for the Julian T. Hoff Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School...................... 50,000
Paul Connell, Milford, Ohio
482 shares of Medco Health Solutions, Inc., common stock
for the Priscilla H. Connell Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 12,696
William B. Corlis, Detroit
for the Robert G. Rodkey Collegiate Professorship in the School of Business Administration........ 50,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................................ 78,776
Dance Marathon at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital....................................................88,919


89




October Meeting, 2003


DCES Educational Services, Canton
for scholarships in the College of Engineering..................................................  17,500
Henry S. and Mala Dorfminan Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Henry and Mala Dorfman Professorship in the Medical School.......................... 100,000
Eugene V. Douvan, Ann Arbor
for the Elizabeth Douvan Fund in the Institute for Social Research...................................  10,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 42,931
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 40,000
Rory E. Dunkel, Essexville
for scholarships in  the Department of Athletics.............................................  10,000
Economy.comrn, Inc., \West Chester, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................  18,000
Robert A. Epstein, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................  13,500
Federal National Mortgage Association, Washington, D. C.
for support in  the  M edical School.......................................................  25,000
Fifth Third Bank, Southfield
for support in  the  M useum   of Art.......................................................  10,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 60,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Ford Journalism Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackhamn School of Graduate Studies and
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Research Fund in the Medical School................... 115,500
Stanley Frankel, Troy
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................  12,500
Gerontological Society of America, Washington, D. C.
for research  in  the School of Social W ork................................................  50,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the  School of Education..................................................  60,000
James P. Hackett, Grand Rapids
209 shares of Comerica, Inc., common stock
for the Lee C. Bollinger Award Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............... 10,079
Hasbro Children's Foundation, New York, New York
for support in  the School of Social W ork.................................................  18,024
James C. Hays, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Class of 1977 Scholarship Fund in the Medical School................................  20,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 75,000
Eu-Phang and Chih H. Hsu Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Eu-Phang and C. H. Hsu Endowment Fund in the College of Pharmacy................... 10,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for support in  the  School of Dentistry...................................................  257,150
Imani Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................... 12,900
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research and other support in the College of Engineering.................................  71,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for scholarships in  the College of Engineering.............................................  74,586
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for the Elbel Club/Marching Band Fund in the School of Music............................... 10,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Bumnswick, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................  11,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research and other support in the Medical School and the School of Public Health........... 2,481,433
Thomas C. Jones, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................  25,000
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for  W U O M........................................................................  100,000
John P. Junge, Rancho Santa Fe, California
1,000 shares of MGI Pharma, Inc., common stock
for the John P. and Sue H. Junge Football Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics......... 39,550
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, Newx York, Newx York
for research  in  the  M edical School.....................................................  330,450
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 18,000


90




David B. Kaplan, Beverly Hills, California
for the David and Meredith Kaplan Competitive Scholarship in
the School of Business Administration................................................... 10,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Community Health Scholars Program in the School of Public Health.................... 1,381,959
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................. 14,852
Cary H. Klein, Allison Park, Pennsylvania
1,160 shares of JP Morgan Chase & Company common stock
for the Cary and Kathy Klein Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................ 19,967
Richard P. Kughn, Dearborn
for support in the Department of Athletics and for the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 25,000
Patricia A. and William E. La Mothe Foundation, Battle Creek
for the William N. Hubbard, Jr., Endowed Fund in the Medical School........................ 10,000
Henry M. Lederman, Ypsilanti
for support in the Department of Athletics................................................ 10,000
Evelyn M. Lehman Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Litvak Foundation, Troy
for the Alan T. Ackerman Dean's Discretionary Endowment Fund in the Law School.............. 50,000
John H. Lunden Trust
for the John and Patricia Lunden Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 45,000
Bob Lyons, Dexter
for support in the Department of Kinesiology............................................ 25,000
Pearson M. Macek, Ann Arbor
1,825 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Music,
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the University Musical Society................................................. 22,622
Madigan Family Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration..................................... 10,000
Manoogian Simone Foundation, New York, New York
for Armenian Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................... 20,000
Marilyn M. Mason, Ann Arbor
for the Marilyn Mason Scholarship in the School of Music................................. 10,000
Janice A. McCrath, Ann Arbor
for the Kenneth McCrath Scholarship in the College of Engineering.......................... 10,500
James S. McDonnell Foundation, Saint Louis, Missouri
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 150,000
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society..................................................... 10,000
McKinsey & Company, Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in
the College of Engineering and the School of Business Administration.......................... 30,000
Edwin E. Meader, Kalamazoo
60,055 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Depression Center Construction Fund in the Medical School......................... 1,855,148
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
54,267 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Depression Center Construction Fund in the Medical School.......................... 1,992,911
D. Stuart Meiklejohn, New York, New York
for the Women's Educational Center at the University of Michigan-Flint....................... 10,000
John Merck Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the John Merck Fund in the Medical School........................................... 10,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in the College of Engineering and for scholarships at the University of Michigan......... 36,000
Mitsubishi Motors Corporation, Tokyo, Japan
for support in the Transportation Research Institute....................................14,995
Michigan Society of Professional Engineers, Lansing
for scholarships in the College of Engineering......................................... 12,500
Anne Gletne Moseman Trust
for the Moseman Family Scholarship in the School of Nursing................................ 434,958
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................ 125,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School................................................. 35,047
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................................... 15,000
91




O~ctober Meeeting, 20033


National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research and other support in the Medical School......................................... 54,167
Newman Family Foundation, Troy
for the Newman Family Professorship in Radiation Oncology in the Medical School.............  50,000
Nissan Motor, Kanagawa, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 44,672
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
for support in the School of Dentistry..................................................... 12,800
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
for support in the Transportation Research Institute....................................... 10,000
Omenn-Darling Family Advised Fund, Seattle, Washington
for scholarships in the Medical School................................................... 25,000
Osram Sylvania, Inc., Danvers, Massachusetts
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 15,000
Erika 0. Parker, Evanston, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration...................................... 25,000
Pepsi-Cola Company, Somers, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics......................................... 50,000
Pfizer International, Inc., New York, New York
for the Summer Engineering Institute ALVA Program in the College of Engineering................ 34,700
PKD Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Medical School...................................................... 40,000
Felix Posen, London, England
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 10,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Tampa, Florida
for the Victor L. Bernard PriceWaterhouse LLP Collegiate Professorship in
the School of Business Administration.................................................... 30,000
James D. Reader, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School................................................... 25,000
Christopher Reeve Paralysis Foundation, Springfield, New Jersey
for research in the Department of Kinesiology........................................... 37,500
Mark Schmidt, Grosse Pointe Shores
for research in the Medical School......................................................  50,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics,
for the Athletics Bands Fund, and
for the Robert and Marjorie Shepherd GSI Fund in the School of Music......................... 60,500
Stamps Family Charitable Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for the Penny Stamps Program Fund in the School of Art and Design and
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Robert C. Morgan................ 500,250
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research in the Department of Kinesiology......................................... 50,000
Doris M. Steffy Trust
for the Wilbert Steffy Endowed Fund in the College of Engineering............................ 43,181
Taubman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning....................... 5,000,000
A. Alfred Taubman Restated Revocable Trust
for the Alfred Taubman Scholarship at the University of Michigan............................. 55,861
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering.................................................. 21,500
J. Walter Thompson Company Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schweitzer Collegiate Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for employee matching gifts...................................................... 10,250
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the Margaret Waterman Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan...................... 18,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, D. C., Washington, D. C.
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington DC Scholarship and
for support in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 10,500
University of Michigan Dugout Club, Riverview
for the University of Michigan Dugout Endowment Fund in the Department of Athletics............ 17,909
V Foundation, Cary, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School............................................... 50,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Center for Sustainable Systems Endowment Fund in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment....................................... 100,000
Robert D. Welchli, Grosse Pointe Farms
525 shares of Plum Creek Timber Company, Inc., common stock
for support in the University Library.................................................. 13,608


92




"Ictober Mbieet~ing, 2003


Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School............................. 308,000
Frederick and Katherine Yaffe Foundation, Southfield
for support in the Schools of Art and Design and Business Administration....................... 25,000
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Aircast, Inc., Summit, New Jersey
ALS Association, Agoura Hills, California
The Ark, Ann Arbor
Andrew P. Barowsky Charitable Foundation, Auburn,
Maine
Craig D. Brennan, San Francisco, California
Canfield Family Fund of the Greater Kansas City
Community Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
Jung H. Chang, Hong Kong, Peoples Republic of China
Robert A. Chartrand, Sun City, Arizona
Sandra L. Chase, Ada
Citizens' Scholarship Foundation of America, Saint
Peter, Minnesota
Patricia Clapper Estate
Colgate-Palmolive Comppany, Jeffersonville, Indiana
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group Ann Arbor,
Ann Arbor
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
Deutsche Bank, New York, New York
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
Robert S. Elgin, North Oaks, Minn.esota
James D. Emerson, Fresno, California
Thomas and Elaine Evans Fund of the Fidelity
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Eric Fearon, Ann Arbor
Freddie Mac, McLean, Virginia
GE Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
GlaxoSmithKline, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania
Bush and Jamie Helzberg Fund of Greater Kansas City
Community Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
Lee H. Hess, Columbus, Ohio
Toni Hoover, Ann Arbor
Lysle E. Johnston, Jr., Ann Arbor
Patricia L. Knebel Memorial Fund of the
Pittsburgh Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania


Masato Koreeda, Ann Arbor
Joseph Ml. Kortenhof, Saint Louis, Missouri.
Thomas A. LaLonde, Grosse Pointe
Lubrizol Founrdation, Wickliffe, Ohio
Managed Resources, Inc., Long Beach, California
McKinley Foundation, Ann Arbor
Medtronic MiniMed, Northridge, California
Medtronic Sofamler Danek Management, Inc.,
Memphis, Tennessee
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company,
Saint Paul, Minnesota
Michael H. Morris Fund of the Schwabb Fund for
Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
Albert D. Moscotti Trust
Chester and Jean Moy Trust
Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical, New Brunswick,
New Jersey
Theodore C. Papes, Jr., Mount Kisco, New York
U. E. Patrick, Jackson
Prudential Financial, Newark, New Jersey
John S. Redpath, Jr., New York, New York
Prudence L. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
Frances T. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association,
New York, New York
Larus Thordarson, Merkjalaek, iceland
Jaclynn C. Tracy, Ann Arbor
Reginald L. Tucker Scholarship Fund, Chicago, Illinois
Susan B. Ullrich Trust
U of M1 Alumni Club of Lansing, Lansing
Walter H. Weiner, New York, New York
David S. Zaccardelli, Tampa, Florida


Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Kitayama, Shinobu, Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
Morgenstern, Hal, Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, November 31, 2008, and Chair,
Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, November 1, 2003-October 31, 2008
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Camara, Antonio, Associate Professor of Finance, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Sinha, Praveen, Associate Professor of Accounting, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2005


93




October Meeting, 2003


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bozynski, Mary Ellen, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, also appointed
Professor of Medical Eduation, without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2003
Bryant, Bunyan I., Jr., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Natural Resources and
Environment, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and the Environment, also appointed
Professor of Urban Planning, without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, October 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Foran, Michael, Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Accounting and Finance, UM-Dearborn School of Management, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Freeman-Larsen, Diane E., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, also appointed Professor
of Linguistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
Friesen, Lauren, Associate Professor of Theatre and Dance, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department
of Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
McGillicuddy, John E., Professor of Neurosurgery, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Orthopaedic
Surgery, without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2003
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming an Established Collegiate ProfessorshiP
Mary Frances Berry Collegiate Professorship in History and American Culture, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003
Establishing a Colleiate Professorship
Wilbur J. Cohen Collegiate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Collegiate Profssorships
Feeley-Harnik, Gillian, Kathleen Gough Collegiate Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Fierke, Carol A., Jerome and Isabella Karle Collegiate Profesor of Chemistry, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Futuyma, Douglas J., Lawrence B.Slobodkin Collegiate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Appointment to Endowed Proessorship
Giannobile, William V., William K. and Mary Anne Najjar Professor, School of Dentistry,
October 1, 2003-September 30, 2008
Appointment to Named Professorshi
Radnell, David, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Reappointments to Endowed Professorships
Eliav, Yaron A., Jean and Samuel Frankel Professor of Rabbinic Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Levinson, Julian A., Samuel Shetzer Endowed Professor of Jewish American Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2007
Other Transactions
Change in title from Director of University Housing to Director of University Housing and Assistant
Vice President for Student Affairs, October 17, 2003
Baird, Thomas A., Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement, UM-Dearbom,
October 20, 2003-August 31, 2005
Carpenter, James E., Chair, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, October 17, 2003, and
Harold W. and Helen L. Gehring Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School,
October 17, 2003-October 16, 2008
94




"etoaber Meeeting, 20033


Gillespie, Carolyn, Interim Chair, Department of Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College and Arts and
Sciences, January 1, 2004-June 30, 2004
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics
Savage, Phillip E., retroactive, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2006, vice Richard L. Fisher, retired
Advisory Committee on Recreational os
Sheets, Kent J., retroactive, October 1, 2003-April 30, 2005, vice John E. Kuhn, resigned from the
University
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alibegovic, Emina, M.S., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Anderson, Tracy M., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Arroyo-Rodriguez, Daniel, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Babich, Volodymyr O., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Balla, Angela J., M.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Bank, Lisa M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Baveja, Roohi, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Bergin, Edwin A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Berglund, Patricia A., M.B.A., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Best, Mary H., Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, September 15, 2003-September 14, 2004
Bhartia, Bobby K., M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, September 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Blumberg, Ilana M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Bochar, Daniel A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
August 1, 2003- July 31, 2004
Booker, Andrew R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2007
Buchberger, Sophie, M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Buddhakulsomsiri, Jirachai, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems
Engineering, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Sciences,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2005
Burson, Katherine A., M.A., Lecturer in Business, School of Business Administration,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Callalli-Villafuerte, Ines, B.A., Lecturer I in Anthropology, International Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Chen, Weiyun, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Chiboucas, Kristin S., B.S., Lecturer I in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Christy, Barbara S., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Cohn, Natalie R., L.L.M., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Dabak, Shubhangi, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
El-Shaikh, Mohamed A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School,
August 18, 2003-June 30, 2004
Elitzer, Haggai, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
95




October Meeting, 2003


Epstein, Shifra, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Erdmann, Christine A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Fadlalla, Amal H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of African and African-American Studies and Assistant
Professor of Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Falzetta, Lisa A., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Fauman, Beverly J., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School,
August 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Flanders, Scott, M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Frantz, Sarah, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Galiyas, Grayce M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Genig, Martha E., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
George, Roshini, D.O., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Hakansson, Ingrid K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Hardin, Rebecca D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, and Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Harper-Anderson, Elsie, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2007
Harrell, Rachel D. L., M.A., Lecturer I in Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Heininger, Joseph, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Herold, Kirsten, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Heth, Jason A., M.D., Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, Medical School, August 4, 2003-August 31, 2004
Higgins, Mary L., B.A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Hilles, Richard K., M.F.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Holden, Craig A., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Ibbett, Katherine M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Ismail, Marika Z., M.F.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Kang, Hong Tae, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearbom College of
Engineering and Computer Sciences, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2005
Katagiri, Yoko, M.A., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts September 19-December 31, 2003
Kees, Michelle R., Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, September 2, 2003-September 1, 2004
Khan, Shawn J., M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2005
Kim, Jinsang, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Kondratyeva, Tatyana V., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Kopchick, Laura, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Kumar, Anuj, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Kuennen, Kristyn E., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Lapcharoensap, Rattawut, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Lauderdale, Nicole L., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Li, Xiangyang, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Sciences, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2005
Litwin, Kenneth, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
96




O~ctober Meeeting, 20033


Maharbiz, Michel M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Margaliot, Zvi, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, September 8, 2003-August 31, 2004
Merenkov, Sergiy, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Minonne, Giovanni, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Modey, Christine, Ph.D., Lecturer II in English, Sweetland Writing Center, and Lecturer II in English
Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Moore, Thomas A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-June 30, 2006
Morse, David L., Lecturer in Expository Writing, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and Lecturer I
in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Moutinou, Juliette K., M.A., Lecturer II in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2003
Murphy, Geoffrey G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mental Health Research Institute, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Murphy, Sheila C., B.A., Assistant Professor of Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Norton, Sean, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Pacifico, Rodney J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Peura, Melissa A., Masters, Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Pinsker, Shachar M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Pu, Robert T., M.D., Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2005
Quintana, Christopher L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Rao, Panduranga, M.B.B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Raybeck, Alethea J., M.F.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Rowley, Larry L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, and Assistant Professor of
AfroAmerican Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2007
Ruwende, Cyril, M.B.Ch.B., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Sandretto, Annette M., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Sekiguchi, Joann, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1,
2003-August 31, 2006
Serlin, Beth A., M.F.A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Shin, Yongyun, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Simms-Burton, Michele L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Smith, Julie A., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Stribley, John M., Ph.D., Lecturer in Medical Administration, Medical School,
August 8, 2003-August 7, 2006
Susko, David J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Terhar, Nancy A., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Tiquia, Sonia M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Tootla, Ruwaida G.H., B.Ch.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatric Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
September 1, 2003-September 1, 2004
Tsai, Billy, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Turner, Michelle M., M.F.A., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Umans, Kate E., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Uribe, Bernardo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006


97




"etoaber Meeeting, 20033


Watson, Amanda L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Weems, Jason D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Art History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Wellik, Beneen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Wenzel, Jennifer A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Williams, Jeffrey B., M.S., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Xie, Yan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Accounting and Finance, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2006
Yao, Yongwei, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Zhu, Ji, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Ben-Josef, Edgar, M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School,
August 19, 2003-June 30, 2004 (previously reported as Clinical Lecturer in Radiation Oncology)
Smith, Lisa R., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School,
September 9, 2002-August 31, 2005 (previously reported as Lecturer in Pathology)
Teodorescu, Mihaela, M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
(previously reported as Clinical Lecturer in Neurology)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Babiak, Katherine M., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2007
Choe, Hae M., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of
Pharmacy, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Cooper, Vaughn S., from Lecturer II in Psychology to Lecturer II in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Himle, Joseph A., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School,
and from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Hooper, Cameron G., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Hornyak, Joseph E., from Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and Assistant
Professor of Radiation Oncology to Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Jeyabalan, Santhadevi, from Lecturer III to Senior Lecturer in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental
Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Kiska, Timothy O., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Communications, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
McDonagh, Cara A., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
McElroy, Tricia A., from Lecturer II in English Language and Literature to Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature and Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Morris, Barbara S., from Lecturer III to Senior Lecturer in English, Residential College, and from
Lecturer III to Senior Lecturer in English, Sweetland Writing Center, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2005


98




OIctober Mbieet~ing, 2003


Rastalsky, Hartmut M., from Assistant Professor to Lecturer III in Germanic Languages and Literatures,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Santillan, Paula, Lecturer I in Residential College also appointed Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Shah, Samantha, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Sowers, Cynthia A., from Lecturer III to Senior Lecturer in Romance Languages, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Tao, Hilda H. H., from Lecturer III to Senior Lecturer in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Van Houweling, Robert P., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy, and from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Wiggins, Jocelyn, from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Adams, Paul A., Associate Professor Emeritus of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Das, Sunil K., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Gurin, Patricia Y., Nancy Cantor Distinguished University Professor Emerita of Psychology and
Women's Studies and Professor Emerita of Psychology and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Henley, Keith S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Kuczkowski, Robert L., Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 5, 2003-August 4, 2004
Livermore Jr., Shaw, Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Schwartz, Edward M., Associate Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School,
January 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Streeter, Victor J., Associate Professor Emeritus of Management Information Systems, UM-Dearborn
School of Management, September 1-December 31, 2003
Townsend, Leroy B., Albert B. Prescott Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Medicinal
Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, and Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Whitehouse, Frank, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology, Medical School,
September 1-December 31, 2003
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abdu, Hasina M., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, childcare leave, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Afuah, Allan N., Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Akhoury, Ratindranath, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Alexander, Jeffrey A., Richard Carl Jelinek Professor in Health Services Management and Policy and
Professor of Heath Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of
Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, without tenure, School of Business
Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Banaszak-Holl, Jane C., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School
of Public Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Borders, James M., Professor of Music (Musicology), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004


99




"Ictober Mbieet~ing, 2003


Brown, Terry J., Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, School of Natural Resources and the
Environment, extended sick leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Clewell, Don B., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Croskery-Roberts, Rachel E., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, childcare leave,
September 29-November 30, 2003
Debold, Vicky P., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, personal medical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Dechow, Patricia M., Carleton H. Griffin-Deloittle and Touche LLP Collegiate Professor of Accounting
and Professor of Accounting, with tenure, School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Dimo, Mary E., Clinical Instructor in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, childcare leave, September 5-30, 2003
Gaggio, Dario, Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Gallagher, Mary E., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1-May 31, 2004
Gifford, Mary J., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
childcare leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Goodman, Dena, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Gordon, Charles F., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Theatre and Drama, without tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Greenfield, Lazar J., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
November 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Hell, Julia C., Associate Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Jacobsen, Carol S., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, and Associate
Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Jones, Martha S., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Kaul, Gautam, John C. and Sally S. Morley Professor of Finance and Professor of Finance, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Keeler, Gerald J., Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, School of Public Health,
Associate Professor of Geological Science, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without tenure, and Associate
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Kolias, Karen M., Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine, Medical School, personal leave,
September 1, 2003-February 29, 2004
Lafortune, Stephane, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Leonard, Joanne, Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, and Professor of Women's
Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Marinaro, Louis M., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Moore, Scott A., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, School of
Business Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Mourou, Gerard A., A.D. Moore Distinguished University Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Olsen, Judith S., Richard W. Pew Collegiate Professor of Human Computer Interaction and Professor of
Information, with tenure, School of Information, Professor of Computer and Information Systems,
with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Omann, Geneva M., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Biological
Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, personal leave, August 4, 2003-August 3, 2004
Overmyer, R. Dwayne, Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Patterson, Stephanie K., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, extended sick leave,
April 15-May 11, 2003


100




OIctober Mbieet~ing, 2003


Perry, Mark J., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
personal leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Porter, Brian A., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Ramaswamy, Venkatram, Professor of Marketing and Computer and Information Systems, with tenure,
School of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Resnick, Paul J., Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Richardson, Caroline R., Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School, research leave,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Roehl, Richard W., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Sameroff, Arnold J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Sandelands, Lloyd E., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resources Management, with tenure, School
of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Schotten, Tizhak, Professor of Music (Viola), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Shehab, Joslyn M., Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine, Medical School, childcare leave,
September 13-December 29, 2003
Skinner, Douglas J., KPMG Professor of Accounting and Professor of Accounting, with tenure, School
of Business Administration, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Stem, David T., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Medical
Education, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2004
Stoler, Ann L., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 2004
Thomas, John C., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Van Tiem, Darlene M., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of
Education, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Walden, Donald, Associate Professor of Music (Jazz Studies), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Watta, Paul B., Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearbor
College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
White, B. Joseph, Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor of Leadership in Management Education and
Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
administrative leave, September 1, 2003-February 29, 2004
Woodward, Wayne D., Associate Professor of Humanities, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Zellers, Edward T., Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, School of Public Health,
and Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Mazumder, Pinaki, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Beck, Robert F., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003 (previously reported as September
1, 2003-May 31, 2004)
Brandt, Mary-Margaret, Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, military leave, May 8,
2003-September 24, 2003 (previously reported as effective May 8, 2003-May 7, 2004)
Neuman, Susan B., Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
intergovernmental leave, July 1, 2001-July 31, 2004 (previously reported as July 1,
2001-December 31, 2003)
Silverman, Eugene M., Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology, Medical School, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2000-June 30, 2004 (previously reported as September 1, 2000 June 30, 2003)
101




O~ctober Meeeting, 20033


TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Barletta, Gina M., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Beleh, Mustapha, Lecturer in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, August 31, 2003
Browning, Kimberly G., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human
Resources, June 30, 2003
Bullock, Esther S., Lecturer in Foreign Language, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, April 30, 2003
Fisher, Maura A., Lectuer in Nursing, School of Nursing, June 30, 2003
Ford, Ann R., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
August 31, 2003
Heinrichs, Kara A., Lecturer in Technical Communications, College of Engineering, August 31, 2003
Kamrani, Ali K., Associate Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, April 30, 2003
Krueger, Editha A., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 15, 2003
Lie, John, Korean Foundation Professor of Korean Studies and Professor of Sociology, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Mulay, James J., Maude T. Lane Professor of Surgical Immunology, Professor of Surgery, with tenure,
and Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, August 31, 2003
Ocorr, Karen A., Lecturer III in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2003
Pandian, Shunmugham, Assistant Professor of Engineering, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 31, 2003
Price, Jessica, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, September 30, 2003
Sharf, Robert H., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Associate Professor of Buddhist Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Shelden, Eric A., Assistant Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School, July 31, 2003
Thiele, Dennis J., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, August 15, 2003
Tucker, Nancy S., Lecturer in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, June 30, 2003
Warsi, Mohammad J., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2003
Zielinska-Elliott, Anna M., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Retired
Agranoff, Bernard W., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, August 31, 2003
Brown, Allan C., Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, without tenure, Medical School, September 9, 2003
Burdi, Alphonse R., Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with tenure, Medical School,
August 31, 2003
Maple, Frank F., Jr., Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, December 31, 2003
Term Completed
Butler, John R., Lecturer II in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2003
Cherry-Garr, Sandra S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2003
Huayhua, Margarita, Lecturer I in Anthropology, Latin American, and Caribbean Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2003
Javidan-Nejad, Javid, Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, August 31, 2003
Mueller, Shane T., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Smith, Jack E., Lecturer in Human Resources, UM-Flint School of Management, August 31, 2003
Soans, Francis P., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, August 22, 2003
Veinott, Elizabeth S., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2003
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted two retirement memoirs.
Alphonse R. Burdi, Ph.D., professor of cell and developmental biology and
director of the Inteflex Program in the Medical School and research scientist in the
Center for Human Growth and Development, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 2003.
Professor Burdi received a B.S.Ed. degree from Northern Illinois University in
1957, an M.S. degree (physiology) from the University of Illinois-Urbana in 1959, and
102




"etober Meeting, 2003


M.S. and Ph.D. degrees (both in anatomy) from the University of Michigan in 1961 and
1963, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in
1962 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1965, associate professor in 1969, and
professor in 1974. He was appointed research scientist in 1973. He directed the Inteflex
program (integrated premedical-medical degrees program) from 1982-2003 and was
director of student biomedical research from 1993-97.
Professor Burdi's seminal research on population patterns of human prenatal
development substantially advanced the critical understanding of the causes,
recognition, and treatment of birth defects. He authored more than 235 scientific papers,
books, and chapters and played key roles in various committees across the campus.
Professor Burdi taught many innovative courses at all levels and guided more than 45
research projects for UROP ("Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program") and
graduate students. Professor Burdi's academic and life skills mentoring brought him
much joy and recognition, including honorary membership in Michigan's Womens'
Athletic Association and an award of a varsity "M" letter by the Athletic Department's
M Club in 2001. Other honors include the AMOCO Outstanding Teaching Award
(1981), an honorary doctor of science degree from the University of Athens, Greece
(2000), and the Distinguished Faculty Governance Award (2002).
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty leader for his dedicated service
by naming Alphonse R. Burdi professor emeritus of cell and developmental biology and
research scientist emeritus.
Adye Bel Evans, associate librarian in the University Library, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 2003, after thirty-one years of distinguished service.
Born and raised in Texas, Adye Bel Evans received her B.A. degree in social
sciences and philosophy from Spelman College in 1963 and her M.A.L.S. degree from
Rosary College, in Illinois, in 1967. Ms. Evans was a technical information specialist at
the National Safety Council from 1967-69, a reference and departmental librarian at the
University of Manitoba from 1969-70, and a cataloger and indexer at the Mitre
Corporation from 1970-71. Ms. Evans joined the University of Michigan faculty in
1972 as a librarian in the Institute for Social Research. In 1973, the title of this position
was reclassified as assistant librarian. She was promoted to associate librarian in 1974.
In 1998, after more than twenty years of service in the Institute for Social
Research, Ms. Evans accepted a position as readers' services librarian and curator of the
graphics collection in the Special Collections Library. In this capacity she was a
welcoming presence to the scholars from the University and beyond who come to use
the archives, manuscripts, rare books, and other resources of the University Library.
Ms. Evans has served with distinction as a member of several campus groups,
including a term as president of the Association of Black Professionals, Administrators,
Faculty, and Staff. She was also the representative from the Michigan League Board of
Governors to SACUA and a member of the University Women's Commission. Her
contributions extended to the Ann Arbor community, where she has served on the
advisory boards of the Ann Arbor Public Schools Department of Continuing Education
and the Ann Arbor Public Library.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Adye Bel
Evans associate librarian emerita.


103




October Meeting, 2003


Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. Provost Courant submitted for approval the August 2003 Doctoral
Degree List, final degree lists for May and August 2003 Commencements, and changes
to previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Richner, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Annual Report of Investments
The Regents received the Annual Report of Investments as of June 30, 2003.
The University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year Ended June 30, 2003
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the audited financial statements for the year ended
June 30, 2003, that had been distributed at the September 2003 meeting. Executive Vice
President Slottow called attention to the annual financial report that is provided to donors
and other constituents. President Coleman noted that Robert Moenart, executive director
of University audits, would be retiring in January 2004 following 32 years of service. Mr.
Moenart, who was present, received a round of applause.
Alternative Asset Commitments
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Carmel Partners Investment Fund, L.P., a real estate fund.
Distressed Debt Investments
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $30 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Virde Fund VII, L.P., a distressed securities fund.
Private Equity Investment (Close Brothers Private Equity Fund VII, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to ~10 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Close Brothers Private Equity Fund VII, L.P., a private equity fund that will invest in
U.K. mid-market companies.
Private Equity Investment (TPG Partners IV, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
TPG Partners IV, L.P., a private equity fund that will invest in large, U.S. and European
leveraged transactions.  Regent Brandon recused himself from  voting on this
recommendation due to a conflict of interest.


104




October Meeting, 2003


University of Michigan-Dearborn Engineering Laboratory Building Expansion
and Renovation Phase Two of the Science and Engineering Expansion and
Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Slottow introduced Terry Sargent of the firm Lord, Aeck
& Sargent to present the schematic design for phase two of the Science and Engineering
Expansion and Renovation Project. Mr. Sargent displayed a map and photographs of the
existing campus buildings that the new structure will tie into and a site plan for the new
building. He described the interior floor plan and showed schematics and illustrations of
the building's interior and exterior. Chancellor Little commented that the design has been
very carefully considered and has been well received by the engineering faculty. It was
noted that state funding will cover 750o of the cost of this project.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the schematic design for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Engineering Building Expansion and Renovation, Phase Two of the Science and
Engineering Expansion and Renovation Project, as presented at the meeting.
Alumni Memorial Hall Museum of Art Addition and Renovation
President Coleman commented about how important the Art Museum is to the
University's academic mission, the campus community, and the region. She pointed out
that the expansion and renovation of the Art Museum is one of the priorities of the
upcoming capital campaign and will be funded primarily through private gifts. President
Coleman noted that the museum's collections and programs have grown far beyond its
capacity; current space is not nearly adequate for properly exhibiting, archiving, and
caring for the bulk of the collections. She pointed out that the new and renovated space
will also benefit the central campus by providing additional classroom space for
undergraduate education.
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that extensive due diligence has been
conducted in the recommendation for the appointment of Allied Works Architecture for
design of the project. He noted that James Steward, director of the Art Museum, would
soon be announcing several leadership gifts for this project.
Regent Brandon moved approval of the Alumni Memorial Hall Museum of Art
Addition and Renovation Project as described and authorized commissioning Allied
Works Architecture for its design. Regent Deitch seconded the motion and it was
approved unanimously.
Wolverine Tower Replace Chilled Water System
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for replacing the chilled water system at Wolverine
Tower as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for
bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Medical Science Building I - Replace Twin Elevators
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Medical Science I Building - Replace Twin Elevators project


105




October Meeting, 2003


as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Med Inn
Electrical Substation Replacement Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC Med Inn Electrical Substation Replacement Project
as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) C.S. Mott
Children's Hospital Operating Room/PACU Expansion and Pediatric MRI Project
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC Operating Room/PACU Expansion and Pediatric
MRI Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman noted that the agenda includes 12 conflict of interest items, each
of which requires 6 votes for approval. She said that these would be considered together
as a block, in one vote, unless any Regent requests individual consideration of, or recusal
from voting on, a particular item. Regent Richner asked for clarification of the lease
agreement with Altarum. Executive Vice President Slottow responded that the conflict of
interest occurs in this agreement because Vice President Ulaby is on the board of directors
of Altarum. In addition, a unit of the University is leasing space from a facility that is
part-owned by Altarum, and the Office of the Vice President for Research is paying a
portion of that lease. It was noted that Altarum is a non-profit company in Ann Arbor
formerly known as ERIM, which many years ago had been part of the University.
There being no requests for individual consideration or recusal, on a motion by
Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved each of
the following items.
Purchasing Contract with NotABook Publishing, Inc.
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with NotABook Publishing, Inc.
Because Lewis Kleinsmith is a University of Michigan employee and is also an employee
and treasurer of NotABook Publishing, Inc., this contract falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.  The following information is provided in
accordance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Psychiatry and NotABook Publishing, Inc.
2.   The services provided are consulting services for conducting focus group interviews
for a total dollar amount of $17,190.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Professor Lewis Kleinsmith, a
University of Michigan employee, is an employee and treasurer of NotABook
Publishing, Inc.


106




O~ctober Meeeting, 20033


Lease Agreement with 3600 Green Court Corporation c/o Altarum
The Regents approved a lease agreement for property located at 3600 Green Court
with 3600 Green Court Corporation, c/o Altarum. The Michigan Consortium for
Biological Information (MCBI) project occupies 55% of the leased space and is a function
affiliated with the Office of the Vice President for Research. Because Fawwaz T. Ulaby
is a board member of Altarum and is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the lease agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
3600 Green Court Corporation c/o Altarum.
2.   The service provided is the lease of 7,227 square feet of building space at 3600 Green
Court for three years, beginning June 1, 2002 through May 31, 2005, beginning at a
monthly rate of $10,238.25 and ending at a monthly rate of $10,840.50. Under the
lease agreement, the landlord is responsible for constructing any desired leasehold
improvements.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises form the fact that Fawwaz T. Ulaby, a University of
Michigan employee, is a board member of Altarum.
Purchasing Contract with Valley View Farm
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with Valley View Farm. Because the
sole owner of Valley View Farm, Douglas Doop, is also a University of Michigan
employee, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Pediatric Endocrinology and Valley View Farm.
2.   The service to be provided is boarding and breeding of sheep for the purpose of
medical research for the period beginning September 1, 2003 and ending August 31,
2004, for a total dollar amount of $25,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Douglas Doop, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole owner of Valley View Farm.
Purchasing Contract with HealthMedia, Inc.
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with HealthMedia, Inc. Because Dr.
Victor Strecher is a vice president and stockholder of HealthMedia, Inc. and is also a
University of Michigan employee, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
University Health Service and HealthMedia, Inc.
2.   The service provided is an online smoking cessation program for a time period from
October 1, 2003 through September 30, 2004, for a total dollar amount of $5,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Victor Strecher, a University of
Michigan employee, is also a vice president and stockholder of HealthMedia, Inc.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Accu Therapeutics,
Inc. (Further development of inventions)
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Accu Therapeutics, Inc., for support of a research contract for further development of
inventions made by Drs. Marc Lippman, Shaomeng Wang, and Dajun Yang. Because
Drs. Lippman, Wang and Yang are all University of Michigan employees who also have


107




"Ictober Mbieet~ing, 2003


an equity interest in Accu Therapeutics, Inc. ("Company"), this contract falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Accu Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed Agreement conform to University policy. Dr. Wang will
direct the project in the Department of Internal Medicine. Dr. Wang will only
participate in the project in his capacity as a University employee. Dr. Yang plans to
leave the University to work for the company. Dr. Lippman is not participating in the
research. The project is expected to continue over a three-year period. The estimated
total cost is $1,000,000 including indirect cost at the applicable industry rate. Since
research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for
changes in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval
of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Drs. Wang, Yang, and Lippman's pecuniary interest arises from their equity interest in
Accu Therapeutics, Inc.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Accu Therapeutics,
Inc. (Practice and commercialize portfolio of inventions)
The Regents approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Accu Therapeutics, Inc. to practice and commercialize a portfolio of inventions jointly
developed and owned by the University of Michigan and Georgetown University and
inventions solely owned by the University of Michigan. The University of Michigan
Office of Technology Transfer has an inter-institutional agreement with Georgetown
University allowing Michigan exclusive control of the jointly owned technologies and has
negotiated and finalized the terms of an exclusive worldwide license agreement with Accu
Therapeutics for UM   File Numbers 2327, 2328, 2329, 2395, 2396, 2397, 2398, 2399,
2400, and 2682. Because Drs. Marc Lippman, Shaomeng Wang, and M cDajun Yang are all
University of Michigan employees who are also partial owners of Accu Therapeutics,
Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan, Georgetown University, and
Accu Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   Licensing Terms include:
Field of Use:  Therapeutics, with the option to add veterinary and diagnostics
applications.
Grant: Exclusive to patent rights, nonexclusive to materials and know how.
Patent Costs: Accu Therapeutics will reimburse the University for costs incurred
during the license. Back patent costs incurred by Georgetown and Michigan will be
reimbursed in two phases: $50K at signing and the remainder (3$75K) within 15
months.
Equity: 4% of the outstanding shares at first round of financing of at least $3.5
million with anti-dilution up to -$8 million; 2.66% to be held by the University of
Michigan and 1.34% to be held by Georgetown.
Royalties: One percent (1%) of NET SALES on the first two hundred million dollars
($200M) of annual NET SALES; Two percent (2%) of NET SALES on all annual
NET SALES in excess of two hundred million dollars ($200M) and less than five
hundred million dollars ($500M); Three percent (3%) of NET SALES on all annual
NET SALES in excess of five hundred million dollars ($500M) and less than one
billion dollars ($1,000M); Five percent (5%) of NET SALES on all annual NET
SALES in excess of one billion dollars ($1,000M).
108




October Meeting, 2003


Performance criteria: Specific milestones must be met in order to maintain the rights
granted by the license.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
Term of the agreement is for the life of the patents.
No use of University services or facilities is obligated under the agreement.
A Sponsored Research Agreement will be put into effect upon execution of the license
agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Lippman, Wang, and Yang arise from their ownership
interest in Accu Therapeutics. They have waived any personal participation in the
sharing of revenue received by the University from the company.
Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan                    and
Learner-Centered Technologies (doing business as [dba] GoKnow)
The Regents approved an amendment to an existing license agreement with
Learner-Centered Technologies, LLC (LCT) to add the following UM files from the
Office of Technology Transfer to the existing exclusive worldwide license agreement with
Learner-Centered Technologies, LLC: File numbers 2671, 2672, 2673, 2674, 2675, 2676,
2677, 2678, 2679, and 2680. Because Professors Elliot Soloway, Ronald Marx, Joseph
Krajcik, and Phyllis Blumenfeld are University of Michigan employees and also hold an
equity interest in LCT, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Learner-Centered Technologies, LLC (LCT).
2.   License terms include:
Addition of File No.'s 2671, 2672, 2673, 2674, 2675, 2676, 2677, 2678, 2679, 2680 to
the existing license agreement. Also, assignment of rights to certain trademarks
associated with many of the files licensed to LCT. All other terms of the license will
remain unchanged. Such terms include a royalty of 8% on net sales, 12% of
sublicense income, and certain business and technology development milestones.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Professors Soloway, Marx, Krajcik and Blumenfeld arise
from their ownership interest in LCT. All have waived any personal participation in
the sharing of revenue received by the University from the company.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan State
University
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Michigan State University that includes a subcontract from the University of
Michigan to Michigan State University to conduct a portion of the work on a grant whose
principal investigator is University of Michigan Professor William Smith. Because
Professor Smith also maintains an appointment at Michigan State University (open-ended
and without compensation), this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of


109




O~ctober Meeeting, 20033


Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan State
University.
2.   Under the terms of the agreement, the total award to the University of Michigan will
be $1,726,834. A total subcontract of approximately $477,000 is planned for
Michigan State University covering the period September 1, 2003 through August 31,
2007. The University's standard subcontract provisions will apply. Since research
agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for changes in
time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval of these
changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee
will be done as appropriate.
3.   Professor Smith has no pecuniary interest in the agreement, as his appointment at
Michigan State University is without compensation.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Thromgen, Inc.
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Thromgen, Inc. (hereafter, "Company") involving a subcontract to the University of
Michigan for performance of research under a grant received by the Company. Because
Dr. Alvin Schmaier is a University of Michigan employee and is also an owner of the
Company, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Thromgen, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. Dr. Kenneth Pienta will
direct the SBIR project in the Department of Internal Medicine over a one-year period
at an estimated cost of $75,791. Since this is an SBIR Phase I no indirect costs are
included. Since research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes
provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope.  University of Michigan
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by
the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate. All appropriate animal
use approvals have been obtained for these studies.
3.   Dr.Schmaier's pecuniary interest arises from his status as an owner of Thromgen, Inc.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Discera, Inc.
The Regents approved an option agreement between the University of Michigan and
Discera, Inc. Because Dr. Clark Nguyen is a University of Michigan employee and also
holds an equity interest in Discera, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Discera, Inc.
2.   The option terms include an option fee of $2,000 and an option period of 3 months.
3.   Dr. Nguyen's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Discera. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties received by the
University from the company.
Research     Agreement     between    the    University   of   Michigan     and    GMP
Immunotherapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and GMP Immunotherapeutics, Inc. Because Drs. Gary Glick and Anthony Opipari are
both University professors and also hold an equity interest in GMP Immunotherapeutics,
Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:


110




October Meeting, 2003


1.   Parties  to the  agreement are   the  University  of Michigan  and  GMP
Immunotherapeutics, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed Agreement conform to University policy. Dr. Glick will
only participate in the project in his capacity as a UM employee and will direct the
project in the Department of Chemistry. The project is expected to continue over a
five-year period. The estimated total cost is $1,500,000, including indirect cost at the
applicable industry rate. Since research agreements are often amended, the contract
includes provisions for changes in time, amount and scope. Standard University
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by
the conflict of interest committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Glick's and Dr. Opipari's pecuniary interest arises from their equity interest in
GMP Immunotherapeutics, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Mayaterials Co.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Mayaterials Co. (hereafter, "Company") that will allow the Company to subcontract a
portion of a research grant to the University of Michigan. Because Dr. Richard Laine is a
University of Michigan employee and also the owner of the Company, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Mayaterials Co.
2.   The terms of the Agreement will conform to University policy. The period of
performance for the project is nine (9) months and the amount of funding support is
$18,000 The University's standard subcontract provisions will apply. Since research
agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for changes in
time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval of these
changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee
will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Laine's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of Mayaterials Co.
Michigan Student Assembly Report
Mr. Eric Bums, president of the University of Michigan-Flint student government
council, addressed the board with      a concern    about the fact that there are no
University-owned vehicles available for use by University students and employees that
allow the transport of individuals in wheelchairs.
Regent Maynard requested that the administration look into this matter and report
back to the Regents.
MSA President Angela Galardi reported on the accomplishments of Michigan
Student Assembly since the start of the Fall semester.
Regents' Bylaws 5.01, 5.24, and 11.13
Provost Courant commented that this proposal would change the title of the senior
research scientist track to the research professor track and would add a new title of
research assistant professor. It would also make these titles available on the Flint and
Dearborn campuses. He noted these researchers are on a par with tenure-track faculty
members except for the teaching responsibilities, and the new titles would make clearer
the independent scholarly work they pursue and the University's expectations of them as
scholars. The establishment of the research professor track would enhance recruiting
efforts and would clarify the status of these individuals in the eyes of funding agencies.


111




October Meetinrg, 2003


Vice President Ulaby noted that this proposal has the support of the faculty, deans,
and other constituent groups. It would initially affect about 65 people, or about 10% of
the individuals currently in either the research scientist or senior research scientist track,
who are not part of the tenure-track faculty but whose scholarship and accomplishments
are on a par with those faculty. The addition of the "research assistant professor" title
completes the proposal, making the entire track parallel to that of the tenure track
faculty.
President Coleman expressed her strong endorsement of this proposal.
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved revisions to Regents' Bylaws 5.01, 5.24, and 11.13. The revised
bylaws are below.
Sec. 5.01. Definitions
As used in these bylaws:
1.  The term faculty shall include members of the teaching and research staff together
with the executive officers, the directors of various teaching, research, and library
units, research associates, curators, and persons with similar duties.
2.   The term professorial staff shall include professors, associate professors, and
assistant professors.
3.   The term governing faculty, when used in connection with a school or college,
shall include those members of the school or college who are professors, associate
professors, and assistant professors. The governing faculty shall include
instructors and lecturers who hold appointments of one-half time or more;
provided, however, that such instructors and lecturers may vote at faculty
meetings only if they have held appointments for one or more years and are
authorized to vote by a majority of the professorial staff of the appropriate school
or college. The governing faculty may include clinical professors, clinical
associate professors, clinical assistant professors, research scientists, associate
research scientists, assistant research scientists, research investigators, research
professors, research associate professors, and research assistant professors when
authorized by, and in accordance with, the policies and bylaws of the appropriate
school or college.
4.   The term teaching staff shall include professors, associate professors, assistant
professors, instructors, lecturers, and teaching fellows.
5.   The terms teaching fellow, teaching associate, teaching assistant, student assistant,
research assistant, technical assistant, laboratory assistant, and assistant shall be
used to designate junior appointees who participate in the processes of teaching
and research but do not possess faculty rank. Students in these classifications shall
have student status.
6.   The term university year, as used in connection with appointments of members of
the faculty and other personnel, contains any two terms in the calendar, as defined
for the year in question. Faculty members are expected to participate in
orientation, registration, and commencement.
Sec. 5.24. Research Scientists and Research Professors
1.  Research Scientists. An academic or research unit may appoint research scientists
to support the research activities of the University if a policy to authorize such
appointments has been adopted by the school, college, division, or research unit in
accordance with the bylaws of that unit and has been approved by the vice
president for research.


112




October Meeting;, 200l3


Research scientist appointments are not appointments to the tenured or
tenure-track instructional faculty. The following titles may be used for research
scientist appointments: research scientist, associate research scientist, assistant
research scientist, and research investigator. Further definition of the rights and
responsibilities of research scientists, not inconsistent with the Bylaws of the
Board of Regents, may be addressed by the bylaws of the academic or research
units.
Research scientist appointments and promotions are recommended by the
appropriate instructional unit and school, college, division, or research unit and
are approved by the vice president for research, the chancellor (Dearborn or
Flint), and the president.
The vice president and secretary of the university shall maintain a list of those
schools, colleges, divisions, and research units that are authorized to make
research scientist appointments.
2.   Research Professors. An academic or research unit may appoint research
professors to support the research activities of the University if a policy to
authorize such appointments has been adopted by the school, college, division, or
research unit in accordance with the bylaws of that unit and has been approved by
the vice president for research and the appropriate provost.
Research professor appointments are not appointments to the tenured or
tenure-track instructional faculty. The following titles may be used for research
professor appointments: research professor, research associate professor, and
research assistant professor. Further definition of the rights and responsibilities of
research professors, not inconsistent with the Bylaws of the Board of Regents,
may be addressed by the bylaws of the academic or research units.
Research professor appointments and promotions are recommended by the
appropriate instructional unit and school, college, division, or research unit and
are approved by the vice president for research, the appropriate provost, the
chancellor (Dearborn or Flint), and the president.
The vice president and secretary of the university shall maintain a list of those
schools, colleges, divisions, and research units that are authorized to make
research professor appointments.
Sec. 11.13. The Medical School: The Executive Faculty
The executive faculty shall consist of all faculty members of the rank of professor, associate
professor, assistant professor, clinical professor, clinical associate professor, clinical assistant
professor, research professor, research associate professor, research assistant professor, and
assistant research scientist.  The executive faculty shall also include instructors, clinical
instructors, and lecturers who have appointments of halftime or more and who have been
appointed for more than one year. It shall perform the duties assigned to the governing faculties
of other schools and colleagues.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:40 p.m. The next
meeting will be held November 20, 2003.
Lisa AA Tedesco
Vice Pres ident and Sec;etary qf tie Univer. ity


113




October Meeting, 2003


114




November Meeting, 2003


NOVEMBER MEETING, 2003
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 20, 2003
The Regents convened at 2:00 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, Richner, and White. Also present
were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice
President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice
President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President and Secretary
Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Newman
participated via conference call. Regents McGowan and Taylor were absent.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and announced that Public
Comments would be the first order of business.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Susan Fawcett, student, on tuition; William
Shea, staff, on revamped staff benefits; Robert Green, retired faculty member, on
increased cost of retiree health care benefits; David Dobbie, president of Graduate
Employees Organization, on health care; Ronald Lomax, faculty, on employee sharing of
health care premium costs; Gina Soter, member of Lecturers' Employee Organization, on
LEO concerns about changes to the health care plan; Katie Oppenheim, staff, on health
care; Kenneth Chaves, president of University of Michigan Skilled Trades Union, on
health care; Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown relationship; and Chelsea Stroh,
member of Students Organizing for Labor and Economic Equality (SOLE), on the
Graduate Employees' Organization.
A five-minute break followed, and the meeting reconvened at 2:50 p.m.
Comments from President Coleman
President Coleman commented on notable achievements of faculty and others at the
University during the past month.
Naming of the Media Union
President Coleman invited President Emeritus James J. Duderstadt and his wife,
Anne Duderstadt, to the table and noted that the Regents would be acting on a request to
name the Media Union in their honor. She commented that during his tenure as president,
James Duderstadt had been a visionary leader who had embraced change and had
"welcomed the opportunity to chart new directions and embrace the challenge of new
demands." She noted that he had initiated innovative programs for diversity and equality
in higher education--the Michigan Mandate and the Agenda for Women--and that under
his leadership, the University's endowment had increased five-fold, and it had become the
first public university to earn an Aal credit rating from Moody's Investors Services. The
University had also become the nation's leading research university and had embarked on
a $1.5 billion program for rebuilding, renovating, and updating the campus.
115




November Meeting, 2003


President Coleman also commented on the invaluable and dedicated service of
Anne Duderstadt, who "worked tirelessly to promote an awareness of the University's
history and to preserve its historic and artistic treasures." President Coleman noted that
President Duderstadt continues to serve the University as a "teacher, leader, and
visionary" and expressed her thanks for his "effective articulation of the issues
challenging higher education today and those that loom large in our future."
President Coleman noted that the Media Union, constructed seven years ago, with
its comprehensive library, art gallery, common spaces, studios, and laboratories,
epitomizes the "vigorous, cutting edge spirit" of Jim and Anne Duderstadt. A
campus-wide celebration and formal dedication is planned for early Spring 2004.
President Coleman turned to Regent White, who commented that she had known
Jim and Anne Duderstadt for most of her life, and they have demonstrated an
unwavering commitment to the University of Michigan over a period of more than 30
years. Regent White noted that the Media Union is a unique teaching, learning, and
research facility that emerged from the vision of James J. Duderstadt, who has served
the University as dean, provost, president, and in his current role as University
professor of science and engineering. She noted that President Duderstadt's true legacy
goes beyond bricks and mortar and is reflected in the diversity and interdisciplinary
focus inherent in the University today, in its "institutional commitment to a diverse
community of scholars, its dedication to tearing down the intellectual walls that divide
academic disciplines, and its concentrated efforts to harness the awesome capacity of
technology in service of knowledge-seeking," and in the solid financial footing he built
as president.
Regent White commented that as the University of Michigan develops its 21st
century vision of a diverse and vigorous academic community, "many rightly look to
Jim's Michigan Mandate and the Michigan Agenda for Women for guidance," with
their model that introduced the systematic measurement of the standing of these groups,
broad community participation in the debate, and clear and measurable standards.
Regent White noted that Anne Duderstadt's legacy is "rooted into the legacy of the
University of Michigan as a whole," and in her "tireless service" she sought to restore a
sense of the University's history and traditions. Among her accomplishments were
establishing the History and Traditions Committee, providing pivotal leadership for
renovations at the President's House and Inglis House, championing the restoration of
and spearheading the fundraising effort for the Detroit Observatory, and providing key
service in the "Campaign for Michigan," which raised $1 billion.
Regent White noted that Anne Duderstadt's current efforts include a series of
pictorial histories of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, the first of which will
coincide with the upcoming 150th anniversary of engineering education at Michigan,
and the second of which, concentrating on the central campus, will be published in the
fall of 2004. She is also working on a comprehensive, web-based history of the
University. Regent White pointed out that President Emeritus Duderstadt continues as a
national leader on the future of higher education as head of the Millenium Project, a
research center concerned with the impact of societal, economic, and technological
changes on the research, teaching, and service activities of universities. He has


116




November Meeting, 2003


published a number of award-winning articles and books on the future of research
universities, public higher education, and intercollegiate athletics in America.
Regent White commented that as one of the largest multi-media centers in the
nation, open 7 days a week and 24 hours a day, the Media Union is the focal point of
the activities of thousands of students. "The naming of this building is uniquely fitting
as a tribute to the Duderstadts, who have worked around the clock, 24/7, on our behalf,"
she noted. "They are the ultimate leaders of the past, the present, and the future of the
University of Michigan." She thanked them for their service.
A round of applause followed, and President Emeritus Duderstadt responded:
Anne and Ifeel very honored by this action, and we want to thank the Regents and
President Coleman jbr your recognition.
This November 'will ma;rk our 35th year at the bUniversit of M&ichigan, and over these
many years it has been our great privilege to serve this remarkable institution in manyc ways ---on
itsifaculty, as a members of the University community, and through leadership assignments as
dean, provost, and president.
I remember a fjrmer dean once remarking that there were very/few social institutions
worthv of the commitment of an entire career, and Michigan was clearly one of these. (Actually
I don't remember just who said this-probably someone like Harold Shapiro, Billy Frye, or
Chuck Vest, long since departedbfr another university.)
Of course as you all are well aware, this is not the easiest place to setrve,
Or to lead,
Or to govern 1!!!
But as Regents and as executive (officers, each of you view your role as a higher
calling, deserving of the personal commitment and sacrifice you each dedicate so unselfishly to
the University, just as did Anne and I during our years in the presidency.
During the past several months I participated in two meetings that vividly illustrate the
importance (f these commitments to Michigan:
The first was in Montreux, Switzerland this past.June where I co-chaired a joint
meeting of universityv presidentsf tom the Uniited States and Europe, sharing visions of thefuture
of the university,. Then this October at UC-Santa Cruz, Iparticipated in a meeting with the
leadership of the University of Califobrnia to explore the future of that institution.
In both events I was struck by how many people approached me to learn more about
what they referred to as "the Michigan model. "Now, of course, this "model" meant quite
diferent things to different people.
To some it was your courageous defense of diversity in higher education. In a sense,
Mdichigan carried the water for the rest of higher education all the -way to the Supreme Court,
something that others not only depended upon Michigan to do, but actually  pecte us to do as
a part of our long tradition to provide "'an uncommon education for the common man ".
To others the Michigan model means our capacity not only to sustain but enhance our
quality even as our tax support declines. Clark Kerr used to call Michigan "the mother of public
universities" because of this iunusual ability to achieve high quality as a public institution. Many
other public universities with far more generous state support such as the Universities?of
California, North Carolina, and Virginia now look to our model to learn how to sustain quality
during tough budget times.
To some the Michigan model arisesfrom the 'free and open spirit " of our students and
faculty, a phrase used to describe Michigan by a Harpers magazine article in the 1920s.
Still others see the Michigan model as innovation and risk taking, for example, when
Michigan developed the quantitative social sciences in the 1950s through its Institute for Social
Research or its role in building the Internet in the 1980s.


117




November Meeting, 2003


For Michigan, quality by itself was never quite enough. Instead we have always sought
leadership, perhaps best captured by the phrase "the leaders and best" in our fight song, the
Victors.
Anne and I are privileged to be a part of this tradition, and we are deeply grateful to
the Regents for this action that links us even more tightly to this remarkable institution.
Another round of applause followed. Mrs. Duderstadt thanked the Regents for
this honor.
Regent White moved that the Media Union be named the James and Anne
Duderstadt Center. Regent Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and had received information on several issues. They
were briefed by Bill Martin, athletic director, and Judy Van Horn, associate athletic
director for compliance services, about the University's efforts in complying with NCAA
rules and regulations. They also met with Mr. Martin and colleagues for an information
update on progress toward overcoming projected operating budget shortfalls. The third
item was a discussion with Provost Courant and Vice President Wilbanks regarding the
current state budget crisis and its impact on current and future operating budgets. The
committee also reviewed a draft of a committee meeting schedule for 2004 and reviewed
a report about the financial performance of the University of Michigan Hospitals and
Health System, which reported an impressive positive variance through the end of
September.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard commented that the
committee met with the president and discussed her vision for the University. This
discussion leads to the development of goals and objectives by which future evaluations
can be made in 2004.
Annual Report of Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA)
Professor Charles Koopmann, Jr., delivered the annual report of SACUA. He
highlighted some of the issues that SACUA either has already addressed or plans to
address in the current year, including a revision of the "Teaching Document," which
highlights the importance of teaching at the University of Michigan, development of a
"Tenure Guidelines" document, establishment of a task force on child care for students,
faculty, and staff, and approval for creation of a central faculty ombuds position.
Professor Koopmann also pointed to some challenges facing University leadership
that SACUA has identified. These include the growth in non-tenure track faculty;
benefits for active and retired faculty and staff; the practice of paying exorbitant
amounts to hire "star" faculty; the fear of speaking openly and freely on controversial
topics; the need for improvements in some athletics facilities for some varsity sports
and for recreational sports for faculty and staff; the necessity for replacing the existing
women's and children's hospitals; the need to increase the influence of college
presidents and faculty on intercollegiate athletics; and the need for more faculty
involvement in refinement of admissions criteria.


118




November Meeting, 2003


He thanked the Regents for giving SACUA an opportunity to address the board
and noted that it has been an honor and pleasure to work with the president, members of
the administration, faculty, and others.
Annual Operating Request to the State
Ann Arbor Campus. Provost Courant commented that the Ann Arbor campus is
requesting only a continuation of the current level of appropriations, or $327 million, an
amount that is 10% less than the state appropriation for fiscal year 2002. He noted that
further cuts will pose significant threats to the University and described some of the risks.
Provost Courant noted that the cuts in base funding already absorbed amount to
almost $1,000 per student, and if the preliminary recommendation for an additional 6%
cut comes to pass, the reduction in revenues would equal almost $1,500 per student. He
noted that the University has cut costs deeply over the past two years and has
eliminated over 300 jobs and open positions. Schools and colleges have had to
eliminate course sections and increase class sizes, and no executive officer accepted a
salary increase this year. Although the proposed cost-sharing model for health care
premiums will trim $6 million in the General Fund and $20 million overall from the
University's health care contribution for 2005 and more in coming years, health benefits
costs continue to increase.
Provost Courant described the effect that some of the cuts in academic programs
already have had, with some courses previously designed as senior seminars for 25
students turned into a lecture course for 250 students, and half of the seats in small,
advanced seminars with senior faculty being eliminated. Further reductions will cut
into core academic activities and could include scaling back of freshman seminars and
curtailing living-learning programs and community outreach programs.
Provost Courant pointed out that the rate of return on investments in education is
among the highest reliable returns on investment available in the economy. He noted
that expenditure of $1.00 at the University increases state income by a total of about
$2.50 and that the University brings hundreds of millions of dollars a year to the state.
Provost Courant said that there are only two ways to increase revenue--private
giving and increases in tuition. The upcoming capital campaign, although critical to the
University's future stability and leadership, will never replace fundamental state
support. He expressed the hope that in the face of continued budget cuts, the University
will not be forced to choose further reductions that will compromise the extraordinary
quality and nature of the institution. Because tuition revenue does not cover the full
costs of students' education, other sources of income, including state appropriation and
philanthropy, must be relied upon. He noted that any increase in tuition will be
matched with corresponding increases in financial aid.
Detailed options and plans will be presented in the coming months, as the
University's costs and the state's economic and fiscal situation become clearer. The
current funding situation, he said, represents a substantial threat to academic excellence
and student access, and the University will work with the state's leaders to plan for
long-term stability that will preserve the University's ability to serve the state's
residents in the future.


119




November Mleeting, 2003


Dearborn Campus. Chancellor Little commented that the Dearborn campus is
well aware that they will most likely be facing a decrease in state support for the
coming year. The campus's strategic priorities include expanding and strengthening
undergraduate education, expanding and extending graduate and professional education
to meet the needs of working professionals in southeast Michigan, continuing to
incorporate technology into the curriculum, and enhancing and deepening the campus's
traditional commitment to community engagement. He described some of the specific
initiatives being planned in each of these areas.
Chancellor Little noted that last year's state appropriation has already been
reduced by $2.6 million, and the proposed additional 6% cut would equal $1.0 million.
Until now, the cuts have been absorbed by reducing costs and increasing revenues
through increased enrollment and higher tuition. He noted that higher education can
play a critical role for the state in enhancing the economic recovery and that it deserves
the support of the state even in difficult times. To that end, the University of
Michigan-Dearborn has requested $1 million in new base funding, while recognizing
that this request is unlikely to be accommodated. The request is meant to highlight the
fact that the University has continuing needs and is working very hard to make a
contribution to the communities it serves.
Flint Campus. Chancellor Mestas observed that attempting to construct a budget
request that addresses the needs and aspirations of the campus in the face of the current
state budget reality was a most difficult undertaking. He noted that the request is based
on trying to restore some of the components of the academic experience that were
eliminated during the last round of budget cuts. The top academic priority is to
maintain the full academic experience for the students, and the second priority is to
continue to recognize the important responsibility that the University has to maintain its
relationship with the community. The budget request, as detailed in the action request,
maintains those priorities and realities.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of October 16, 2003.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report,
Plant Extension Report, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, October 1 - October 31, 2003. He noted that the University received 201
new awards this year, including a $13.6 million, 5-year project on translational research
in acute lung injuries.
University of Michigan Health System.    Executive Vice President Kelch
commented that the Health System is preparing for anticipated reductions in
government-supported payments for medical care. He also noted that all three
components of the Health System (M-Care, the Medical School, and Hospital) are
undergoing a reaccreditation process simultaneously.


120




November Meeting, 2003


Division of Student Affairs. Noting that the annual Michigan vs. Ohio State
University football game would be taking place that weekend, Vice President Harper
announced that a significant effort has been made to encourage all fans to behave in a
manner that is respectful to the University of Michigan and the Ann Arbor community.
Student groups and Greek groups have participated fully in this endeavor, and the
University's Department of Public Safety and government relations officials have been
working with the Ann Arbor Police Department and others to ensure safety.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little noted that the campus had
held a very successful opening of the newly-renovated University Center. The building
is being heavily used and is a tremendous success and a huge enhancement to the
quality of student life on campus.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas commented that much of the
attention on campus has been focused on adjusting to the painful consequences of the
last round of budget cuts, while preparing for anticipated future budget cuts. Many
students are sending letters to state legislators regarding the effect of these cuts and
their fear that the cumulative effect of these cuts will diminish the quality of their
education.
Chancellor Mestas reported that the campus has focused on trying to improve and
control things that are within its reach. To that end, an Enrollment Management Task
Force has been created, charged with making recommendations to improve the
recruitment and retention of students.  He introduced a UM-Flint student, Patrice
Campbell, an international student from Jamaica who has been featured as one of ABC
Television's "Top Five Under 35." She was selected for the exceptional leadership
qualities she has displayed as a student leader on the Flint campus through her work in
recruiting students from around the world to attend the University of Michigan-Flint.
He noted how proud the University is of her accomplishments.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman noted that the agenda includes 12 conflict of interest items
(numbers 9-20), each of which requires 6 votes for approval. However, item #12, "Option
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Innovative Biotherapies, Inc.," is
being removed from consideration until the December meeting. She said that the
remaining 11 items would be considered together as a block, in one vote, unless any
Regent requests individual consideration of, or recusal from voting on, a particular item.
There being no requests for individual consideration or recusal, on a motion by
Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent White, with Regent Newman participating by
telephone, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Approval of Payment for Ann Arbor IT Zone
The Regents approved payment by the University of Michigan School of Business
Administration to Ann Arbor IT Zone for conference services and logistics. Because
Kenneth Nisbet and Samuel McCord are members of the board of directors of Ann Arbor
IT Zone and are also University of Michigan employees, this purchase falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:


121




Noveme~uber  M~eeting, 2003


1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its School of
Business Administration and Ann Arbor IT Zone.
2.   The service provided was conference services at a total cost of $17,897.25.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Kenneth Nisbet and Samuel McCord,
University of Michigan employees, are members of the board of directors of Ann
Arbor IT Zone.
Purchasing Contract with Intralase Corporation
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with Intralase Corporation for the
purchase of a femtosecond laser. Because Tibor Juhasz is a University employee and is
also an employee of Intralase Corporation, this contract falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences and Intralase Corporation.
2.   The product to be provided is a femtosecond laser at a total cost of $196,235.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Tibor Juhasz, University of Michigan
employee, is also an employee of Intralase Corporation.
Approval of Payment for Paul E. Schneider Enterprises
The Regents approved payment by the University of Michigan-Dearborn's
Department of Physical Education, Recreation and Athletics to Paul E. Schneider
Enterprises. Because the owner and president of Paul E. Schneider Enterprises, Denise
Sombati, is also a University of Michigan employee, this purchase falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.       The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its University
of Michigan-Dearborn Department of Physical Education, Recreation, and Athletics
and Paul E. Schneider Enterprises.
2.   The product provided is trophies and awards at a total cost of $6,170.70.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Denise Sombati, a University of
Michigan employee, is owner and president of Paul E. Schneider Enterprises.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and KeraCure, Inc.
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and KeraCure, Inc. to support a research contract for further development of inventions
made by Dr. Riley Rees, a University of Michigan faculty member. Because Dr. Rees
also has an equity interest in KeraCure, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.       The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and KeraCure, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The project is
expected to continue for about a one-year period. The total cost to KeraCure is
currently expected not to exceed $84,780 including indirect cost at the applicable rate.
Since research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for
changes in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval
of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Rees' pecuniary interest arises from his holding of an equity interest in KeraCure,
Inc.


122




November M/eeting, 2003


License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Mobius Microsystems
The Regents approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Mobius Microsystems for an exclusive license agreement with Mobius for inventions
developed and owned by the University of Michigan. Because Richard B. Brown and
Michael McCorquodale are University of Michigan employees who also hold an equity
interest in Mobius Microsystems, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Mobius Microsystems.
2.   License Terms:
Field of Use: All fields.
Grant: Exclusive.
Equity: UM will obtain 4.5% of fully diluted equity in Mobius.
Royalties: 1-2% on Net Sales by Mobius based on cumulative new sales; 3-4% of
sublicense income (based on cumulative income) for design licenses and sliding scale
of sublicense income for general sublicenses ranging from 15-50% depending on date
of sublicense.
Patent Expenses: Payment of ongoing expenses and back patent costs over time (no
less than 18 months from effective date)
Diligence:  Combination of financing and sales levels and completion of first
third-party agreement.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Brown and Mr. McCorquodale arise from their
ownership interest in Mobius. They have waived any personal participation in the
sharing of revenue received by the University from Mobius.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Mobius Microsystems
The Regents approved an option agreement between the University of Michigan and
Mobius Microsystems to evaluate an invention entitled, "Software for the Synthesis of
MEMS     Devices" (OTT     File No. 2655).      Because Richard Brown      and Michael
McCorquodale are both University of Michigan employees and hold an equity interest in
Mobius Microsystems, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Mobius
Microsystems.
2.   Option terms include an option fee of $2,000 and an option period of 3 months.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Brown and Mr. McCorquodale arise from their
ownership interest in Mobius Microsystems.  They have waived any personal
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University from Mobius
Microsystems.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and the University of
Illinois
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with the University of Illinois
enabling the collaboration of Dr. Ravi Bhavnani of the University of Illinois in the project,
"Simulation of Closed Regimes Using Agent-Based Models (SCRAM)." Because Dr.


123




Noveme~uber  M~eet~ing, 2003


Bhavnani also holds a 0% appointment at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the University of Illinois.
2.   Agreement terms: The proposed subcontract to the University of Illinois is for $86,991
for the period covering 1 September 2003 through 31 August 2004. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply. Since research agreements are often
amended, the subcontract includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope.
University of Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Bhavnani's pecuniary interest arises from his status as an employee of the
University of Illinois.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan State
University
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Michigan State University involving collaboration with Dr. Hiram Fitzgerald of
Michigan State University on the research project, "Family Study of Risk for Alcoholism
Over the Life Course." Because Dr. Fitzgerald also holds an appointment as an adjunct
professor, without compensation, at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan State
University.
2.   Agreement Terms: The total award to the University of Michigan will be $4,941,791.
A total subcontract of approximately $775,000 is planned for Michigan State
University covering the period January 1, 2003, through December 31, 2007. The
University's standard subcontract provisions will apply. Since research agreements
are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for changes in time, amount,
and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be
followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   Dr. Fitzgerald's pecuniary interest arises from his status as an employee of Michigan
State University.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. ("TSRL") (re oral delivery of Thrombostatin)
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. ("TSRL") for funding of a project in
the Department of Internal Medicine involving oral delivery of Thrombostatin. Because
Dr. Gordon Amidon is a University of Michigan employee and also an owner of TSRL,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and TSRL.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is one (1) year and the amount of funding support is $55,412. Since
research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for
changes in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval
of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Amidon's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of TSRL.


124




November Meeting, 2003


Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. ("TSRL") (re delivery of Anthrax DNA
vaccine)
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories, Inc. ("TSRL") for funding of a project in
the Department of Internal Medicine involving investigation of conjugate carriers for
delivery of anthrax DNA vaccine. Because Dr. Gordon Amidon is a University of
Michigan employee and also an owner of TSRL, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.    The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and TSRL.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is two (2) years and the amount of funding support is $80,000. Since
research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for
changes in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval
of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Amidon's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of TSRL.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and General
Dynamics Advanced Information Systems, Inc., acting through Veridian Systems
Division, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with General Dynamics Advanced
Information Systems, Inc., acting through Veridian Systems Division, Inc., for funding of
the project, "DARPA Friction Drag Reduction Program." Because a key collaborator on
the project, Dr. David Walker, is an employee of Veridian Systems Division, Inc. and also
holds a 0% appointment at the University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and General Dynamics
Advanced Information Systems, Inc., acting through Veridian Systems Division, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is September 1, 2003 through November 30, 2006 and the amount of
funding support is one hundred ninety thousand dollars ($190,000). Since research
agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for changes in
time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval of these
changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee
will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Walker has no pecuniary interest in the agreement.
Consent Agenda Continued
Michigan Student Assembly Report.          MSA   President Galardi reported on
projects underway by Michigan Student Assembly. She also introduced Manuel Alaez,
treasurer of the Dearborn Campus student government. Mr. Alaez noted that the
Dearborn student leadership hopes to report regularly on its activities, and he
highlighted a number of current and future initiatives underway.
Regent Brandon left the meeting at this point, at 4:00 p.m.


125




November Meeting, 2003


V oluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Reports on Voluntary
Support as of October 31, 2003.
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering, the School of Business Administration, and
the University Hospitals.............................................................. $21,022
Alcoa, Inc., Davenport, Iowa
for the Women's Initiative in Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
American Association for the Surgery of Trauma, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 20,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 100,154
American Chemical Society, Washington, D. C.
for the Arthur C. Cope Scholar Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 40,000
American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund, Washington, D. C.
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts................. S79,477
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 33,790
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 25,400
George E. Anderson, Franklin
for the Emil and Elsie Anderson Scholarship in the College of Engineering....................... 14,246
Anonymous Donor
235 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,131
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Medical School......................................................... 10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 97,167
ArvinMeritor, Inc., Columbus, Indiana
for support in the Transportation Research Center........................................... 25,000
Bertram J. Askwith, Harrison, New York
for support in the School of Public Health................................................. 10,000
Aspen Institute, Washington, D. C.
for research in the School of Social Work................................................. 13,000
Attwood Foundation, Canton
for scholarships in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
in memory of Charles W. Attwood....................................................... 12,000
Arnold R. Babcock, Pensacola, Florida
2,000 shares of Citizen Communications common stock and a cash gift
for the Arnold and Vivian Babcock Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Dentistry................................................................ 25,000
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Law School........................................................... 13,333
Alfred Berkowitz Foundation, Farmington Hills
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 25,000
Norman R. Bodine, Bloomfield Hills
350 shares of Johnson & Johnson common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 17,777
Boeing Defense and Space Group, Seattle, Washington
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................. 62,500
Peter F. Borish, New York, New York
for the Peter F. Borish Endowment Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............. 40,000
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Wilbur K. Pieipont Fund in the School of Business Administration....................... 20,000
Capital Group Comjpanies Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 10,000
Mary Carmel and Thomas Borders Family Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation
for support in the Medical School........................................................ 35,000
Donald L. Castle Charitable Lead Unitrust, Gainesville, Florida
for support in the School of Nursing and for the Michigan League.............................. 11,848
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 12,550
Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 30,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 15,000


126




November Meeting, 2003


Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School........................................................ 40,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 1 0,000
Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., Simi Valley, California
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 19,400
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Wilton, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 56,600
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Center for the Education of Women, and
the Museum of Art,
for the Michigan League, the Schools of Business Administration and Music, and
for the College of Literalture, Science, and the Arts.......................................... 12,600
E. F. Domino, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School.......................................................1 0,000
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for scholarships in the College of Engineering..............................................  20,000
Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 32,500
Henry Ford Health System, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Health System Corporate Scholarship in the School of Public Health............ 19,670
Forest Health Services, LLC, Ypsilanti
for the University Musical Society...................................................... 201,600
Ilene H. Forsyth, Ann Arbor
for the Hill Auditorium Restoration Fund in the School of Music.0............................... 0000
Mary C. Forsythe Trust
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School....................................... 50,000
George B. Foussianes, San Francisco, California
for the Foussianes Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................... 20,000
Helen L. Gehring Estate
for the Harold and Helen Gehring Endowed Funds in the Medical School....................... 326,392
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.......................................... 15,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and
for the University Hospitals............................................................ 30,000
Genvec, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 25,000
Hasan Family Foundation, Pueblo, Colorado
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................................... 25,000
Hugh Hewitt, Irvine, California
for support in the La' Schoow............................................................1 0,000
Michael S. Hokin, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................ 10,000
Honda R & D Company, LTD., Saitama, Japan
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.......................................... 14,995
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................................. 52,000
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for the Elbel Club Marching Band in the School of Music.....................................1 0,000
Johnson & Johnson Corporation, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Medical School.................................................... 10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 60,761
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 20,000
Stephen Kemp, Whitmore Lake
for the Robert and Evelyn Kemp Fund in the College of Engineering............................1 0,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals....................................................1 4,852
John S. and James L. Knight Foundation Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan.................................................. 10,000
Koito Manufacturing Company, Shizuoka-Ken, Japan
for support in the Transportation Research Institute..........................................1 0,000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for support in the Medical School........................................................ 35,000


127




November Meeting, 2003


Philip and Irene W. Krause Trust
for the Frank S. Moran Lectureship in the Medical School.................................  10,000
David E. Krehbiel, Ann Arbor
325 shares of Lowe's Cos, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Social Work,
for the University Musical Society, and
for W UOM..................................................................  18866
Curt and Jamie Launer Family Foundation of the Franklin Templeton Charitable Giving Fund,
Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
for support in the School of Business Administration..................................... 10,000
Lenawee County Chamber of Commerce, Adrian
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration.................................... 10,000
LLJ/DPJ Family Partners LTD, Keego Harbor
for support in  the Department of Athletics................................................  20,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy...................................   75,000
Thomas S. Maentz, Bloomfield Village
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................. 100,000
Richard and Jane Manoogian Foundation, Taylor
for support in the M edical School........................................................ 25,000
James A. McDivitt, Rapid City
for the James A. and Judith McDivitt Scholarship in the College of Engneering.................. 10,000
Edwin E. Meader, Kalamazoo
5,000 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Depression Center Construction Fund in the Medical School.......................... 157,875
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................... 384,000
Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway, New Jersey
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.......................................... 10,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research in the College of Engineering........................................... 35,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering and
the School of Business Administration..................................................... 17,100
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for the University of Michigan-Flint, and
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 14,225
Mary C. Murphy, Calumet
for the Mary C. Murphy Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Percy J. and Mary C. Murphy R. N. Professorship of Pediatrics in the Medical School........... 18,000
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Law School...................................................... 25,000
National Blood Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 50,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 45,566
Edward Newman Trust
for support at the University of Michigan................................................ 25,000
Nobel Biocare, Gothenburg, Sweden
for support in the School of Dentistry.................................................. 49,980
Frank R. Noyes, Cincinnati, Ohio
218 share of Medtronic, Inc., common stock
for the William S. Smith Research Fund in the Medical School.............................. 10,065
Oliver Hatcher Charities, Wixom
for support in the University Hospitals...........................................60,000
David and Lucille Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for the Packard Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 20,000
Claude M. Pearson, Tacoma, Washington
for the Claude M. Pearson Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School...................... 20,000
Mary M. Pfeiffer Trust
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School................................ 360,103
John O. Robertson, Satellite Beach, Florida
for the John O. Robertson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Ruth Lobdell Scholarship at the University of Michigan............................... 23,000
Bettyeluise Salle Estate
for the Bettyeluise Salle Fund in the Clements Library............................... 10,441


128




November Meeting, 2003


Shirley K. Schlafer Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Endowment for Discovery in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 10,000
Robert D. Scott, Mason, Ohio
for the Robert D. Scott Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 25,000
Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the School of Business Administration................................................. 82,500
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Donald R. Shepherd Graduate Coaching Fellowship and Women's Gymnastics in
the Department of Athletics.........................................................  116,500
Edwin and Ruth Shoemaker Foundation, Monroe
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................. 10,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Social Work................................................ 25,000
Shirley E. Smith, Plymouth
for the Wallace Smith Memorial Cancer Research Fund in the Medical School.................... 10,000
Solutia, Inc., Springfield, Massachusetts
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.......................................... 15,000
Elinore M. Sommerfeld, Boulder Junction, Wisconsin
for the R. Thomas and Elinore Sommerfeld Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the University  Library................................................................ 10,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education.................................................. 34,500
Waldo D. Sturm, Pigeon
for the Sturm Family Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 100,000
Surgical Infection Society Foundation for Education and Research, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 40,000
Synthes (U.S.A.), Paoli, Pennsylvania
for support in the Medical School....................................................... 15,000
Target Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for scholarships and other support in the School of Business Administration...................... 20,000
Teva Neuroscience, Newcomerstown, Ohio
for the Daniel Mikol Research Fund in the Medical School..................................... 50,000
Erna Schmidt Tracy, Clemmons, North Carolina
for the Erna S. Tracy Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan... 15,000
United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 144,814
University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit, Ypsilanti
for scholarships at the University of Michigan............................................ 20,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration..................... 50,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 69,978
Whitney Fund, Detroit
for the University Musical Society..................................................... 100,000
Whole Foods Market, Austin, Texas
for support in the University Hospitals.............................................  10,616
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................... 10,000
John M. Yantis, Jr., Estate
for the John M. Yantis, Jr., Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning........................... 154,467
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
tackling sleds, shock pads, and sled rollers for the Department of Athletics


129




November Meeting, 2003


Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 were received from the following
donors:


Aircast, Inc., Summit, New Jersey
Altria Group, Inc., New York, New York
Anonymous Donor
Charlene P. Archibeque, Los Altos, California
Margaret E. Barr Bigelow, Sidney, British Columbia,
Canada
Steven R. Berlage, Troy
Norman J. Betts, Ann Arbor
Steven F. Bolling, Ann Arbor
BorgWarner Powertrain Technical Center, Auburn Hills
Janet Gatherer Boyles, Grand Rapids
Burr Family Charitable Fund of the Vanguard Charitable
Endowment, Southeastern, Pennsylvania
Caponigro Public Relations, Inc., Southfield
Centerpulse Dental, Inc., Austin, Texas
Ruth S. Clemenson Estate
David S. Clyde, Ann Arbor
Consumers Energy Foundation, Jackson
Julie F. Cummings, Detroit
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
Gary H. Dwight, East Lansing
Eaton Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio
David S. Evans, Wilmette, Illinois
Exxon Mobil Corporation, Irving, Texas
Wyman Finley Estate
Fujisawva Healthcare, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
Genetic Programming, Inc., Los Altos, California
GlaxoSmithKline, Philadelphia, Pennylvania
Howard and Elizabeth Gourwitz Philanthropic Fund of
the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit,
Bloomfield [Hills
Paul Hamburger, Potomac, Maryland
lHardate Incorporated, Sudbury, Massachusetts
Jack E. Hill, Venice, Florida
Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc., New York,
New York
Andy Jacob, Bloomfield Hills
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman,
New Jersey
Robert A. Johnston Revocable Trust
Lynn M. Kalinowski, Marshall
Joseph A. Lahorra, Beachwood, Ohio
Gordon B. Laing Estate


Lang-Mekra North America, Ridgeway, South Carolina
Stanley R. Levy, Champaign, Illinois
Frederick and Stella Loeb Trust
Main Street Commons, LLC, Taylor
John D. Mall Trust
John L. Marakas, Columbus, Ohio
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
Donald B. McCulloch, Grand Rapids
Juan E. Mestas, Flint
Michigan Rowing Association, Ann Arbor
Julia S. Morris, Ann Arbor
Richard C. Morrissey, London, England
William J. Newell, Vancouver, British Columbia,
Canada
Casper Y. Offutt, Jr., Okobiji, Iowa
Mary S. Palmer, Ann Arbor
Randall L. Pittman, Ann A rbor
Metodi C. Pogoncheff, Lansing
Public Sector Consultants, Inc., Lansing
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
Margaret A. Rliecker, Midland
John Riley, Toronto, Ohio
Lawrence A. Rosen, Friedrichsdorf, Germany
Millie Schembechler Memorial Foundation, Ann Arbor
Douglas R. Schrank, Saugatuck
Darryl L. Snider, Rolling Hills, California
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
Stichting DelHooge Waard, Montfoort, Netherlands
Robert A. Toigo Foundation, Oakland, California
Toyota Tech Center, Torrance, California
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
University of Michigan Club of Flint, Flint
University of Michigan Club of Toledo, Temperance
George J. Valenta, Ann Arbor
Alison Woodcock, Ann Arbor
Mark D. Yura, Chicago, Illinois
Karen S. Van Weelden, Los Angeles, California
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett LLP,
Grand Rapids
Whitman Family Foundation, Ann Arbor
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Mark D. Yura, Chicago, Illinois


Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions and
personnel reports. He noted the additional appointment for Dean Noreen Clark and the
appointment of Donald Chaffin and Melvin Hochster as distinguished University
professors.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TEN1URE
Effective on the dates indicated
Birkmeyer, John D., M.D., George D. Zuidema Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2009, and Professor of Surgery, Medical School, January 1, 2004
Heckenlively, John R., M.D., Paul R. Lichter Professor of Ophthalmic Genetics, Medical School,
December 1, 2003-November 30, 2008, and Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences,
Medical School, December 1, 2003
Sarter, Nadine B., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2004


130




November Meeting, 2003


Solo, Victor, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 2004
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Perry, Mark J., Associate Professor of Finance, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Sun, Yi, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, November 20, 2003
REAPPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Calarco, Margaret M., Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, School of Nursing
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Clark, Noreen M., Marshall H. Becker Collegiate Professor of Public Health, Professor of Health Behavior
and Health Education, with tenure, and Dean, School of Public Health, also appointed Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, November 1, 2003
Dauwe, Loretta, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, also appointed, Interim Chair, Department
of Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, January 1-May 15, 2004
Joyce, James M., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of
Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Philbert, Martin A., Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, also appointed,
Senior Associate Dean for Research, School of Public Health, January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
Thomas, Charles B., Jr., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, also appointed, Interim Chair,
Department of Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal Justice, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, January 1-April 30, 2004
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing a Collegiate Professorship
Herbert Sloan Collegiate Professorship in Cardiac Surgery, Medical School, November 20, 2003
Renaming Established Collegiate Professorships
Halvor N. Christensen Collegiate Professorship in the Life Sciences, Life Sciences Institute,
November 1, 2003
Ludwig Koenen Collegiate Professorship in Papyrology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Apoo intments to Colle i te Profeore: ip:
Deeb, G. Michael, Herbert Sloan Collegiate Professor of Cardiac Surgery, Medical School,
December 1, 2003-November 30, 2008
Dunkle, Ruth E., Wilbur J. Cohen Collegiate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, Mary Frances Berry Collegiate Professor of History and American Culture,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008


131




November Meeting, 2003


Avj)ointmrents to Distinguished Professorships
Chaffin, Don B., Richard G. Snyder Distinguished University Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1, 2004
Hochster, Melvin, Jack E. McLaughlin Distinguished University Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2004
Avpointmenits to Endowed Professorships
Capozza, Dennis R., Dale L. Dykema Professorsor in Business Administration, School of Business
Administration, December 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Krishna, Aradhna, Isadore and Leon Winkleman Professor of Retail Marketing, School of Business
Administration, December 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Appointiment to Named Professorship
Israel, Kali A. K., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History, College of Literature Science, and the
Arts, January 1-May 31, 2004
Other Transactions
Jayaratne, Srinika D., Associate Dean of Faculty Affairs, School of Social Work,
January 1, 2004-August 31, 2008
Walesby, Anthony J., Assistant Provost, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for
Academic Affairs, December 1, 2003
Foran, Michael, Correction to educational information in previous communication
Moon, I. Douglas, Interim Dean, UM-Flint School of Management, January 1, 2004
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Established on dates indicated
Miachan Historical Collections Executive Committee
Kelley, Mary C., retroactive, November 1, 2003-October 31, 2008, vice Sidney Fine, retired
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Barannyk, Lyudmyla L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Boyd, Belanie A., M.A., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Davis, Pamela, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
October 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Epperson, James F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Gammack, David, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Gorodnik, Alexander, M.S., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Green, Glenn E., M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
October 6, 2003-October 5, 2004
Harwood, Rona B., M.B.A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 3004
Hawley, Robert C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Jung, Joachim, M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Kandala, Srinivasacharya, M.A., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 25, 2003-April 30, 2004
Kasischke, Laura K., M.F.A., Lecturer III in Residential College and Lecturer III in English Language
and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Knickerbocker, Patricia J., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Langenecker, Scott, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2004
Latini, Jerilyn M., M.D., Assistant Professor of Urology, Medical School, October 1, 2003-August 31, 2004


132




November M/eeting, 2003


Lawes, Elliot W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Lewis, Ian H., M.B.B.S., Clinical Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
October 14, 2003-August 31, 2004
Mishra, Mithilesh K., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Misra, Vinod K., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Park, Ok-Sook, Ph.D., Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 25, 2003-April 30, 2004
Pelletier, Beverly B., M.A., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Persad, Carol, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2004
Pipe, Kevin P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Pousaz, Lionel, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Rader, Mary R., M.L.S., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Radnell, David A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Rosenberg, Jack M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Clinical Assistant
Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
September 15, 2003-September 14, 2004
Thomas, Anne C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Ugboma, Stella A., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, October 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
van der Velde, Mary E., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
November 11, 2003-November 10, 2004
Weinstein, Jamie S., M.D., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, October 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Willoughby-Herard, Tiffany J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Africana Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts
and Sciences, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Zhu, Yuan, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO            ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW   APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Chidambaram, Rama, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004 (previously reported as Lecturer in
Mathematics)
Duncan, Robert K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004 (previously reported as Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology)
ADMINISTRAT IVELY APPRO VED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR             DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Chenoweth, Carol E., from Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of
Epidemiology to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine and Clinical Associate
Professor of Epidemiology, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Hall, Karen E., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2006
Hanlon, Michelle L, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of Business
Administration, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Kim, Jinsang, Assistant Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Chemical Engineering, Assistant Professor of Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, and Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Kim, Catherine, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and from Lecturer to Assistant
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, October 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Kumagai, Arno K., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, October 1, 2003-June 30, 2006


133




November M/eeting, 2003


Lahann, Joerg, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, also appointed Assistant Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering and Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of
Engineering September 1, 2003-May 31, 2006
Weitzel, William F., III, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, October 1, 2003-September 30, 2006
Wooliscroft, James O., Lyle C. Roll Professor in the Medical School, Professor of Internal Medicine, and
Executive Associate Dean and Acting Dean, Medical School, December 5, 2003-February 29, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Burkel, William E., Professor Emeritus of Anatomical Sciences, Medical School,
October 5, 2003-October 4, 2004
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban Regional Planning, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, January 1-April 30, 2004
Fajans, Stefan S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Gluck, Peter R., Professor Emeritus of Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Soloman, William R., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Taylor, James R., Professor Emeritus of Marketing, School of Business Administration,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Elenbogen, Bruce S., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Sciences, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Fine, John V., Jr., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, medical
leave, September 17-December 31, 2003
Gravlee, Jocelyn R., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, family medical leave,
October 17-November 9, 2003
Israel, Barbara A., Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Lin, Yi, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, family
medical leave, September 1-October 31, 2003
Mackinnon, Catharine A., Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, outside teaching assignment, January 1-May 31, 2004
Madi, Mohsen M., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, family medical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Shaout, Adnan K., Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave,
January 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Shaw, John A., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Swanson, Joel A., Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Swanson, Michele S., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical
School, duty off campus, September 1, 2003-December 31, 2004
Throne, Stephanie S., Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
family medical leave, October 6-December 26, 2003, and childcare leave,
December 27, 2003-May 31, 2004
Verrett, Shirley, James Earl Jones Distinguished University Professor of Music and Professor of Music
(Voice), with tenure, School of Music, extended sick leave, October 6, 2003-January 4, 2004
Zazove, Philip, Clinical Professor of Family Medicine, Medical School, research leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003


134




November M/eeting, 2003


CORRECTION OR CHANGE TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVTED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Lubeck, Sally A., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, extended sick
leave, August 2, 2002-June 30, 2003 (previously reported as August 2, 2002-August 1, 2003)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Burstein, Ariel T., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2003
Cullen, Julianne B., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2003
Dimo, Mary E., Clinical Instructor in Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, September 30, 2003
Gartner, Elaina, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 14, 2003
lannettoni, Mark D., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, January 2, 2004
Walker, Deborah S., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, August 31, 2003
Retired
Borkin, Harold J., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, December 31, 2003
Chambers, David L., Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, December 31, 2003
Lewis, Robert E., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2003
Lynch, Joseph P., III, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, September 30, 2003
Meyer, William J., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
December 31, 2003
Yee, Albert F., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, and Professor of Chemical Engineering,
without tenure, College of Engineering, December 31, 2003
Term Completed
Itani, Abdul, Lecturer in Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and
Computer Science, April 30, 2003
Macedo, Alessandra C., Lecture in Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry, September 30, 2003
Zettervall, Sara, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2003
Retiremren t MVemnoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for five retiring
faculty members.
Bernard W. Agranoff, M.D., professor of biological chemistry, senior research
scientist, and professor of biological chemistry in the Department of Psychiatry, and
senior research scientist in the Mental Health Research Institute in the Medical School,
retired  from  active faculty  status on August 31, 2003, following        43  years of
distinguished service.
Dr. Agranoff received his B.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1946 and
his M.D. degree from Wayne State University in 1950. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as a research scientist in 1960, was appointed associate professor in the
Department of Biological Chemistry in 1961, and was promoted to professor in 1965 and
senior research scientist in 1997. In 1983 he was named professor of biological chemistry
in the Department of Psychiatry. From 1991-2001 he held the title of Ralph Waldo
Gerard Professor of Neurosciences. Dr. Agranoff was director of the Mental Health
Research Institute from 1985-95 and director of the Neuroscience Laboratory from
1983-2002.


135




November Meeting, 2003


Early in his career, Dr. Agranoff demonstrated a requirement for protein synthesis
in the goldfish brain for the formation of long-term memory, a major advance in
neuroscience.  His research extended to optic nerve regeneration and led to
identification of molecular markers of neuroplasticity. Basic Neurochemistry, a book
he co-edited, is considered to be the authoritative treatise on neurochemistry. His
former students and fellows are now tenured investigators throughout the world,
including six at the professorial rank at the University of Michigan.
Dr. Agranoff has received the University's most prestigious honors, including the
Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award (1984), the Distinguished Faculty
Lectureship in Biomedical Research (1986), and the Henry Russel Lectureship (1988).
He is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences, has
served as Fogarty Scholar-in-Residence at the National Institutes of Health, and is a
fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Bernard W. Agranoff
professor emeritus of biological chemistry and senior research scientist emeritus.
Allan C. Brown, M.B., Ch.B., associate professor of anesthesiology and associate
professor of anesthesiology in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology, retired from
active faculty status on September 9, 2003.
A native of Suffolk, England, Professor Brown received his M.B. and Ch.B.
degrees from the University of Birmingham, England, in 1967. He completed a
fellowship at the University of Colorado in 1974 and was appointed assistant professor
there from 1974-76. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor in 1976, was promoted to associate professor in 1982, and received a joint
appointment as associate professor of anesthesiology  in the Department of
Otohinolaryngology in 1991.
A substantial contributor in clinical care, teaching, research, and administration,
Professor Brown was director of the operating rooms at the Medical Center from
1976-86, and he developed courses on applying fiberoptic techniques to the
management of the difficult airway. He was one of the first physicians to recognize the
importance of the diagnosis of a difficult airway and to develop appropriate
management techniques for patients with this condition. In 1987, Professor Brown
co-founded the Difficult Airway Clinic, which received a commendation for health care
innovations from the American College of Physicians in 1992.
Professor Brown's publications include a textbook, Atlas of the Difficult Airway,
14 book chapters, and over 40 other publications. He has held several editorial posts
and has served in numerous leadership roles in local, state, and national professional
organizations. He is a founding member of the Society of Management of the Airway
and the American Association for Medical Systems and Informatics.
The Regents now salute this distinguished medical educator for his dedicated
service by naming Allan C. Brown associate professor emeritus of anesthesiology and
associate  professor  emeritus  of  anesthesiology  in  the  Department   of
Otorhinolaryngology.
Harry Frank, Ph.D., professor of psychology and associate professor of earth and
resource science in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2001.
Professor Frank received his A.B. degree in psychology from the University of
California-Berkeley in 1965 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
136




November Meeting, 2003


Colorado in 1968 and 1969, respectively. While at the University of Colorado, he was a
National Institutes of Health research fellow and a National Institute of Mental Health
research trainee in social psychology. Professor Frank joined the University of
Michigan-Flint faculty in 1969 as an assistant professor and was promoted to associate
professor in 1973 and professor in 1987. He received a joint appointment as associate
professor of earth and resource science (formerly resource and community science) in
1983.
His teaching spanned the areas of social psychology, psychology, and ecology,
theories of personality, and statistics, but the focus of Professor Frank's research was on
animal behavior, specifically that of dogs and wolves. One of the byproducts of
Professor Frank's research was the organization of the First International Captive Wolf
Research Conference. As chair of this conference, he worked to bring wolf experts
together to share their research and ideas. Other contributions included numerous
articles, a book on wolf behavior, and two statistics texts.
Professor Frank served as chair of the psychology department and chair of the
faculty council, and he was the author of a handbook on student outcomes assessment. In
1988, he received the University of Michigan-Flint Faculty Award for Scholarly and
Creative Achievement.
The Regents now salute this distinguished psychology educator for his dedicated
service by naming Harry Frank professor emeritus of psychology and associate
professor emeritus of earth and resource science.
Lloyd A. Jacobs, M.D., professor of surgery and senior associate dean for clinical
affairs in the Medical School and senior associate director and chief operating officer of
the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, retired from active faculty
status on November 14, 2003.
A native of Holland, Michigan, Dr. Jacobs served with the United States Marine
Corps from 1958-62. He received his A.B. degree from Miami University in 1965 and
his M.D. degree from The Johns Hopkins University in 1969. He completed his
residency training at The Johns Hopkins University, the University of California-San
Diego, and Wayne State University. Dr. Jacobs joined the University of Michigan
faculty as associate professor and assistant dean for Veterans Administration affairs in
1989 and was promoted to professor in 1998.
Dr. Jacobs has been a major participant in the administration of the Medical
School and the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC). In
1996, he was appointed associate dean for clinical affairs in the Medical School and
was promoted later that year to senior associate dean for clinical affairs. He was
appointed interim executive director of the UMHHC in 1997 and senior associate
director and chief operating officer in 1998. He also served as chief of staff at the Ann
Arbor Veterans Affairs Medical Center from 1989-96.
A productive member of the vascular surgery division, Dr. Jacobs had an active
clinical practice and was active in medical student and house officer teaching for twenty
years. His major research interests involved studying how the outcomes of vascular
surgical disease are related to various health care systems and funding mechanisms, and
he has a national reputation for his involvement with studies on Veterans
Administration patient populations. Dr. Jacobs is a fellow of the American College of
Surgeons and is a member of numerous professional medical specialty societies,


137




November Meeting, 2003


including the Association of Veterans Administration Surgeons and the International
Society for Cardiovascular Surgery.
The Regents now salute this distinguished surgeon, teacher, and administrator for
his dedicated service by naming Lloyd A. Jacobs professor emeritus of surgery.
Joseph P. Lynch, III, M.D., professor of internal medicine in the Medical School,
retired from active faculty status on September 30, 2003, after a most productive career
as a teacher, clinician, and researcher.
A native of Massachusetts, Dr. Lynch received his B.A. degree from Harvard
University in 1969, his B.M.S. degree from Dartmouth College in 1971, and his M.D.
degree from Harvard Medical School in 1973. He completed his internship and
residency at the University of Michigan Medical Center between 1973-76 and also
served there as a fellow in pulmonary diseases from 1976-78. Dr. Lynch joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1978 and was promoted to assistant
professor in 1979, associate professor in 1984, and professor in 1994.
Dr. Lynch contributed strength and vitality to instructional, clinical, and research
programs in the Department of Internal Medicine. He served as chief of clinical affairs,
director of the ambulatory care pulmonary clinic, and director of pulmonary
transplantation. He was the editor-in-chief of Seminars in Respiratory and Critical
Care Medicine, and he was a key investigator on a project to determine the
pathobiology of fibrotic lung disease that was conducted with Specialized Center of
Research funding from the National Institutes of Health. During his tenure at the
University, Dr. Lynch made crucial contributions to the understanding of
fibroproliferative lung diseases, scarcoidosis, and pneumonia.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator, clinician, and
investigator by naming Joseph P. Lynch, III, professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. President Coleman submitted recommendations for honorary degrees for
the following individuals: Leo Goodman, Class of 1938 Professor, Departments of
Sociology and Statistics, University of California, Berkeley (Doctor of Science); Ann
Lurie, president and treasurer, Ann and Robert H. Lurie Family Foundation (Doctor of
Laws); and Thomas J. Miller, ambassador to Greece (Doctor of Laws).
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitment
The Regents were informed of the University's recent commitment of $25.0 million
from the Long Term Portfolio to Lubert-Adler Real Estate IV, L.P., a follow-on real estate
fund.
Alternative Asset Investment
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved an additional investment of $0.7 million from the Long Term
Portfolio to purchase a secondary interest in Chengwei Ventures I, L.P.


138




November Meeting, 2003


Naming of the Michigan Stadium Football Team Locker Room
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved naming the football team locker room in Michigan Stadium the J.
Ira and Nicki Harris Family Football Locker Room.
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that generous gifts for this facility had
also been received from Al Glick and Tom Maentz.
Athletic Department Academic Center (formerly referred to as Academic Success
Center)
Executive Vice President Slottow introduced Mr. Robert Powell, CEO of Jickling
Lyman Powell Inc., to present the schematic design for the Athletic Department
Academic Center. Mr. Powell displayed diagrams of the site location and the site plan
and described how the building will be situated on the site. He then reviewed the
schematic design and programmatic uses for the interior of the building and noted that it
will consist of three levels, with a lower level, ground level (main floor), and upper level.
He also displayed an architectural rendering of the exterior of the building. He noted that
it is designed to bridge the gap between the Marie Hartwig Building and Yost Field
House, and it creates a new passageway to the Athletic Campus.
It was noted that construction of this building will result in a loss of about 60
parking spaces, but parking will be sufficient in this area even after the loss of the
spaces.
Regent Deitch moved approval of the Athletic Department Academic Center.
Regent Richner seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. Executive
Vice President Slottow noted that the building had previously been referred to as the
"Academic Success Center" but will now be known as the "Academic Center."
Ann Street Parking Structure
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Ann Street Parking Structure Project and authorized
commissioning Walker Parking for its design.
Vera Baits I Fire Alarm Systems Upgrade
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Vera Baits I Fire Alarm Systems Upgrade Project as described
in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Central Campus Recreation Building New Fitness Center
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the Central Campus Recreation Building New Fitness Center
Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved project budget.


139




November Meeting, 2003


Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan Ann Arbor
Campus for FY 2005
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the annual operating request to the state for the University of
Michigan Ann Arbor Campus for FY 2005.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan Dearborn
Campus for FY 2005
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the annual operating request to the state for the University of
Michigan Dearborn Campus for FY 2005.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan Flint
Campus for FY 2005
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the annual operating request to the state for the University of
Michigan Flint Campus for FY 2005.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:40 p.m. The next
meeting will be held December 18, 2003.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


140




December Meeting, 2003


DECEMBER MEETING, 2003
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 18, 2003
The Regents convened at 2:15 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper,
Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice
President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President
Slottow, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice
President Wilbanks.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and announced that Public
Comments would be the first order of business.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated:
Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown relationship; Daniel Rose, student and member
of the All-Campus Labor Council, on health benefits; David Boyle, alumnus, on the
Solomon Amendment; Cheryl McCreary, citizen and Council 25 Representative of
AFSCME Local 1583, on health benefits; Patrick Anderson, alumnus, on urban high
school academies; and Laura Rubin, president of the Huron River Watershed Council, on
the Miller's Creek Plan.
A five-minute break followed, and the meeting reconvened at 2:50 p.m.
Comments from President Coleman
President Coleman commented on the state's continuing budget crisis and the second
round of cuts to public higher education being made in the current fiscal year. She noted
that the continued cuts threaten academic quality, as well as the long-standing covenant
that exists among all of the state's public universities and state residents and that the
University needs to continue to speak out about the value that public higher education
contributes to the state.
President Coleman observed that the recent cuts in state funding to higher
education, comprising  15 percent ($250 million) in one calendar year, are
unprecedented. For all three University of Michigan campuses, this amounts to $60
million in reduced funding this current year, or $1,400 less per student on the Ann
Arbor campus. She commented that the effect of the funding drop is "an unarticulated
legislative policy that students and families will bear more of the burden of their
education."
President Coleman observed that in 1970, state appropriations made up 70 percent
of the University's general fund whereas they currently comprise less than 27 percent of
the general fund, and the balance must be paid by tuition. She said that higher
education does not have the ability to cut costs as businesses do, as it is an intrinsically


141




December Meeting, 2003


labor intensive endeavor. The demand for higher education continues to grow, with
commensurate demands for more services, technology, and modern facilities
infrastructure.
President Coleman commented that public higher education returns as much as
$26 to the state for every dollar invested in it and that each citizen benefits from the
high-quality, educated workforce and the economic benefits derived from research
discoveries. She pointed out that the state increasingly depends on the research and
progress created by higher education as it works to move from a manufacturing to a
knowledge-based economy.
President Coleman noted that the University will continue to cut costs as much as
possible and will monitor and reduce cost increases where possible. However, even
though millions of dollars have been saved with cost-cutting measures, the magnitude
of the current reductions from the state are so great that universities must now be on
guard against an erosion of quality that will not be possible to recover once it is lost.
Regent Deitch commented on how lucky the University is to have the leadership
of President Coleman and pointed out that early on in the budget crisis she had decided
to forego a salary increase for 2003-04, and the executive officers had followed suit.
Noting the importance of private philanthropy in alleviating the budget situation, he
thanked President Coleman and her husband for their "extraordinary" pledge to the
capital campaign. Regent Deitch commented that "we're all in this together" and that
the University " is very precious and we cannot allow it to be hurt in any way." He
stated that the goal is to maintain the University of Michigan's unique quality, built up
over a period of 150 years.
Regent Deitch observed that "the nation's great public universities, of which the
University of Michigan is the leader, are in my opinion the key differentiator between
our society and almost every other society in terms of creating opportunities for
people." He noted that "we cannot allow a momentary problem to create an erosion in
quality that was built up over 150 years." He challenged everyone associated with the
University to "unite and create a better understanding for the people of Michigan of
what's at stake," by talking about it "insistently,...loudly,... to every member of the
legislature,... to alumni, and... to the governor, and let people know that if we allow a
deterioration of this precious legacy, this unique quality that exists at this university, we
will have failed the challenge that's in front of us." He stated to President Coleman,
that "we're with you, and we do not intend to see that happen."
Regent Newman commented that "the University community is obviously going to
see cuts and obviously going to see changes. But what you will not see is a
compromise on quality because we're not going to allow that. We will continue to
pursue excellence, and we will not compromise the quality of this institution."
Regent Taylor observed that advocacy efforts should focus on the impression that
the value of higher education generally has been missed in Lansing, not only with
respect to the University of Michigan but for all schools and colleges. It is important to
convey that all of the public higher education institutions are an important asset to the
state as it seeks to retain manufacturing jobs and its economic base.


142




IDecember Meeting, 2003


Regent Maynard commented that "I know all of us are with you in terms of all of
the things that have been said, in terms of the essential nature of public education for
the state and nation" and the fact that "quality is essential to what we are as a public
institution."
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and had received information updates on several issues.
These included the six-month report on University Audits (included also in the meeting
agenda), about which Robert Moenart, executive director of University Audits, had
reported that the level of support was outstanding and that President Coleman had set a
strong ethical tone.
The committee also met with candidates for external auditor and was updated on
the implications of the most recently announced cuts in state appropriations. Regent
Brandon commented that both the committee and the board as a whole are more
engaged with the efforts being undertaken by the administration to cut costs, curb cost
increases, and deal with the current budget environment than it has been in the past. He
cautioned that the state needs to be mindful of the aspects of its operations that are
doing well, which include higher education, and expressed concern that the state will
fail to understand the return on investments made in this sector. He noted that even
though the state is in a difficult financial situation, the University remains in a very
thriving, competitive environment, and he expressed the hope that the state can be made
to understand this and to continue to invest in it.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that the
Compensation and Personnel Committee did not meet this month.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of November 20, 2003.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report,
Plant Extension Report, and Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, November 1 - November 30, 2003.
University of Michigani  Health System.  Executive Vice President Kelch
highlighted the appointment of Larry Warren as director and chief executive officer of
the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers.
Division of Student Affairs. There was no additional report from the Division of
Student Affairs.
University of Michigan-Dearborn.    Chancellor Little pointed out that
manufacturing is one of the contributions being made to the region and state by the
University of Michigan-Dearborn. He described several initiatives being pursued in


143




December Meeting, 2003


this area. He noted that proposed changes in health insurance premiums contributions
have been discussed broadly on the Dearborn campus. Finally, he reported that units
should be moving into the former Fairlane Training and Development Center facility by
the end of the month, and classes will be held there beginning in January.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas commented that proposed
health benefit changes have also been widely discussed on the Flint campus. He noted
that Professor Fredric Jameson, from Duke University, would be serving as the Myron
and Margaret Winegarden Visiting Professor on the Flint campus during the winter
term.
Michigan Student Assembly Report.              Ms. Monique Perry, vice president of
Michigan Student Assembly, presented an end of semester report and described a
number of ongoing and new programs that are being pursued by MSA during the
current academic year. Among these are sponsoring programs related to the upcoming
theme semester on the Brown v Board of Education Supreme Court decision.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May described a bequest that had been made
by alumna Anne L. Welch as an example of the importance of bequest intentions in
capital campaigns. He noted that this would be a focus of the upcoming campaign.
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... $100,154
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 127,175
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research and other support in the Schools of Dentistry and Public Health and
the Medical School and
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................... 381,012
Ann Arbor Track Club, Ann Arbor
for the Lloyd and Laurie Carr Endowment Fund and
the Robert and Heather Urich Endowment Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............. 10,306
Anonymous Donor
for the Villa Bosco Bello Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
April Restaurants L.L.C., Totowa, New Jersey
for the Martin Luther King, Jr., Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.............. 66,000
Association for Computing Machinery, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering............................................. 10,000
BCBSM Foundation, Detroit
for research and other support in the Medical School.................................... 38,993
Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, Irvine, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 160,000
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Nursing............................................ 10,000
Boeing Defense and Space Group, Seattle, Washington
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 15,000
John R. Boyd, Orchard Lake
for scholarships and support in the Department of Athletics and
A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning............................... 45,000
Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 362,382
David M. Bunzel, Scarsdale, New York
for the David Bunzel Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
Linda Burke, Quincy
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................... 12,500
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars Award in the School of Business Administration.................... 28,000
Willie Grace Campbell, Los Angeles, California
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies........................... 25,000
Jerry E. Cardillo Estate
for the Jerry E. Cardillo Trust Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering................... 25,000


144




December Meeting, 2003


Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
for support in  the Institute for Social Research............................................. 250,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research  in  the Institute for Social Research............................................. 53,647
John N. Cassella Trust
for the John N. and Florence Cassella Charitable Gift Annuity for
the ultimate benefit of the M edical School................................................  10,000
CFI Group, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society and  W UOM.......................................... 20,616
Cisco Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering................... 17,500
Eugene Cordes, Villanova, Pennsylvania
for financial aid  support at the University  of Michigan........................................  15,000
Doris Cranmore Estate
for scholarships at the University  of M ichigan............................................. 217,579
Clan Crawford, Jr., Trust
for Nichols Arboretum and the Exhibit Museum of Natural History............................. 13,000
Cresswell Family Foundation, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Sheila Cresswell Fellowship in Medicinal Chemistry in the College of Pharmacy and
for research  in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..........................................  157,000
Crull Family Trust
for the Academic Success Center in the Department of Athletics.............................. 20,000
DaimlerChrysler Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the College of Engineering, the School of Business Administration, and
the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and
for the University  of Michigan-Dearborn.................................................  136,000
William K. Davenport, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Law School.................................................... 12,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute.........................................  13,333
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for the Dekers Club Hockey Scholarship and other support in the Department of Athletics........... 15,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in the M edical School.......................................................  19,250
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Funds in the School of Business Administration and the Law School....... 10,000
William D. Drake Estate
for support at the University  of Michigan..................................................  55,345
John R. Edman, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Class of 1950 Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Business Administration.......... 10,000
Robert L. Estes, Nashville, Tennesee
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................ 10,000
Exxon Mobil Corporation, Irving, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering and the School of Business Administration............... 19,500
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for scholarships in the Law School and
for employee matching gifts........................................................  71,101
Stanley and Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................  22,500
William B. Ginsberg, New York, New York
for the Ginsberg Center for Community Service and Learning.............................  180,000
Hank Gniewek Memorial Classic, Brownstown
for support in  the M edical School........................................................ 10,000
Robert H. Gorlin, Northville
400 shares of various corporate stocks
for support in the Law School and
for the Selma and Albert Gorlin Student Award Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................11,800
Greek Orthodox Ladies Philoptochos Society, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the University Hospitals........................................... 25,000
Guidant Foundation, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the College of Engineering.......................15,000
Christopher L. and M. Susan Gust Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Fisher Stadium Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics......................... 375,000
Velma E. Harness, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................  300,000
Hewlett Packard Financial Services Center, Colorado Springs, Colorado
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................ 30,000
145




It ecember Mleeting, 200l3


Hiller Foundation, Southfield
for support in the Medical School........................................................ 10,000
Alan J. Hirschfield Living Trust
1,700 shares of Interactive Data Corporation common stock
for the Berte and Alan Hirschfield Fund in the Kresge Hearing Research Institut e.................. 28,892
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 83?000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for support in the College of Engineering and in the School of Information...................... 160,000
Keki B. Irani, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering and for the University Musical Society..................   12,000
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Music............................. 11,000
Gretchen N. Jackson, Ann Arbor
41-6 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Gretchen Neal Jackson Scholarship Fund and other support in the School of Music........... 15,000
Gertrude G. Jacobs Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and in the School of Public Health....... 272,912
Juvenile 'Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 330,450
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
200 shares of Nike, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................. 12,623
Henry B. and Jessie W. Keiser Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Henry B. and Jessie WN. Keiser Scholarship at the University of Michigan.................. 50,000
KeraCure, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 13,399
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................... 14,852
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the Knight International Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies...... 100,000
John S. and James L. Knight Foundation Fund of
the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................. 10,000
W. Robert Kohorst, Pasadena, California
for support in the La' Swhool............................................................ 53,000
Korea Foundation, Seoul, Korea
for support in the University Library..................................................... 20,000
Lannquist Harmilton Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Ford Building Construction Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............. 25,000
Paul C. Lipschutz Estate
for scholarships in the Medical School.................................................... 25,000
Robert R. McCormick Tribune Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 15,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and at the University of Michigan....... 45,000
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the Mel Barclay Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.................................. 10,000
Moore's Investment Company, Inc., Jacksonville, Arkansas
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 10,000
Sally Morley, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
660 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 24,057
Laura E. and Robert Muglia Family Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Laura Ellen and Robert Muglia Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 10,000
Maeve Murray Memorial Fund, Plymouth
for the Save a Heart Campaign in the University Hospitals.................................... 17,000
Gregory T. Mutz, Barrington, Illinois
for support in the La' Schoow............................................................ 80,000
Ryusuke Nakaoka, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Dentistry.................................................... 27,038
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 75,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School........................................................ 71,862
National Public Broadcasting, LLC, New York, New York
for WUOM......................................................................... 16,822
146




December Meeting, 2003


Fred C. Newman Trust
for scholarships at the University of Michigan............................................. 138,917
Helen Forster Novy Fund of the San Francisco Foundation, San Francisco, California
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 25,000
William P. O'Neill, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Law  School........................................................... 10,000
Stuart B. Padnos, Holland
for the Barbara Padnos Breast Cancer Research Fund in the Medical School..................... 100,000
Papadopoulos Family Trust
6,500 shares of Regeneration Technologies, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics.............................................. 70,460
Fan Parker, Ann Arbor
for the Dr. Fan Parker Family Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan.................... 15,000
Michael J. and Leslee Perlstein, Los Angeles, California
700 shares of News Corporation Ltd., common stock
for the Michael and Leslie Perlstein Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 25,000
Perrigo, Allegan
for the Perrigo Summer Fellows Program Endowment in the Life Science Institute............... 250,000
Pfizer Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Nursing................................................ 24,733
George L. Phillips, Brighton
for the George L. and Margaret H. Phillips Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy and
for support in the School of Nursing.................................................. 17,000
Pioneer Distributing Company, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Leo R. Voyles................... 10,000
Louis I. Pollock Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies....................................... 15,000
PPG Industries, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 10,000
Laurence A. Price, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the Elbel Club Marching Band Fund in the School of Music.............................. 10,050
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute..................................... 10,000
Margaret and John Riecker, Midland
2,700 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................................. 100,400
John 0. Robertson, Satellite Beach, Florida
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Gift Annuity for
the ultimate benefit of Ruth Lobdell Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan.............. 18,000
Pauline Rothmeyer Estate
for support in the Medical School................................................. 166,667
Alma Ruppenthal, Troy
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School......................... 38,469
Eloise Salik Estate
for the Academic Success Center in the Department of Athletics............................. 14,000
Bettyeluise Salle Estate
for support in the University Library and the University of Michigan.......................... 11,401
Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for scholarships in the College of Engineering........................................... 40,000
Robert J. Sheehy, Edina, Minnesota
for the Summer Enrichment Program in the School of Public Health........................... 10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering............................................. 10,000
Ching ju Wang Sheu, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Ching ju Wang Sheu Graduate Student Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy............. 50,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Alfred P. Sloan Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 20,067
Herbert E. Sloan, Ann Arbor
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School and
for support in the Museum of Art, and the Nichols Arboretum................................. 16,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, D. C.
for research in the Department of Kinesiology and in the Medical School...................... 67,495
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the School of Business Administration.............................. 15,000
Gordon A. Stoney, Fairview, Oregon
24,000 par of Seariver Maritime corporate bond
for the John F. Holt, M.D. Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School....................... 15,919
147




DUecember Meeting, 2003


Synchronous Knowledge, Inc., Clifton, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering.................................................  20,000
Takata Automotive Systems Laboratory, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  150,000
John Templeton Foundation, Radnor, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the A rts................................. 33,300
Sinibaldo Tozzi, Grosse Pointe
600 shares of Dell, Inc., common stock
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 20,676
James D. Tracy Estate
for  support in  the  Law   School........................................................... 25,000
Elizabeth Upjohn-Mason, Kalamazoo
2,250 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Norman Thompson, M.D. Professorship of Surgery Fund in the Medical School........... 182,700
Edward H. Wahtera, Breckenridge, Colorado
for support in  the Department of Athletics................................................  10,000
Diana D. Waantz, New York, New York
for the George E. Wantz Professorship in the History of Medicine in the Medical School........... 75,000
Gail and Lois Warden Fund of the Community Foundation for S. E. Michigan, Detroit
for the Health Management and Policy Leadership Center in the School of Public Health........... 10,000
Anne L. WNelch Estate
for the Eva Grace (Miller) Welch Pediatric Fellowship in the Medical School and
for the Paul S. Welch Limnology Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.. 196,436
Harold G. Wilson, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................  10,000
Royce E. Wilson, Pacific Palisades, California
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center...........................................  13,055
Joanne B. and David P. Woods Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in  the  M edical School.......................................................  12,500
Nancy Upjohn Woodworth, Hickory Corners
6,500 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Upjohn Woodworth Professorship in the Medical School............................. 206,733
Warren T. Zinn, Washington, D. C.
for the Kelly McKinnell Scholarship in the School of Art and Design, in memory ofKelly McKinnell. 10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Geoffrey Gillespie, Detroit
one original pastel painting signed by the artist for C. S. Mott Children's Hospital
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
32 GX270Y Optiplex Mini Towers, two D600 Notebooks, one PowerEdge 2600 Server, three GX270
Desktop Systems, and 32 adapters for the College of Engineering
Robert E. Lewis, Ann Arbor
a rare copy of the laws of South Carolina, printed by Lewis Timothy in 1737 for the Clements Library
Microsoft Research, Redmond, Washington
a one year subscription to MSDN Academic Alliance and 35 Office XP Professional software for the College
of Engineering
David Richards, Grosse Pointe Farms
one Pontoon boat with a 35 HP engine for Camp Michigania
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:
Elaine S. Adams Trust                            Brad Canale, Ann Arbor
Terence E. Adderley, Bloomfield Hills            Marilou J. Capo, Birmingham
Vinay Ahuja, Albuquerque, New Mexico             M. W. Catto, Oscoda
Richard J. Allen, Ann Arbor                      Convergys Corporation, Norwood, Ohio
Alphafive Corporation, Ann Arbor                 Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Lansing
ALPS Automotive, Inc., Auburn Hills              Sophia Piel Dawson Charitable Trust
Carol V. Arbury Trust                            Jay J. DeLay, Ann Arbor
Baker & McKenzie, Chicago, Illinois              Delphi Automotive Systems, Pontiac
D. Theodore Berghorst, Winnetka, lllinois        Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
Birmingham University of Michigan Alumnae Club,  Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc.,
Bloomfi eld Hills                                West Bloomfi eld
Bradley Square Partners, LP, Nipomo, California  Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
Douglas L. Bridges Estate                        Wendy Dolin, Glencoe, Illinois
Brookdale Foundation, New York, New York         Dove Holdings Corporation, Foster City, California
Brunswick Foundation, Inc., Lake Forest, Illinois  Ervin Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
Calvin College, Grand Rapids                     Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Saint Louis, Missouri
148




December Meeting, 2003


Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
John W. Glace, Ferndale
Guidant Corporation -- Cardiology Pacemakers,
Saint Paul, Minnesota
Edward W. Handley, Jackson
HarleyEllis, Southfield
Georgia C. Haugh Trust
Hebert & Eller, P.C., Detroit
Mark Hofstetter, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Hogan Family Foundation, Newbury Park, California
Robert K. Hutton, Gravenhurst, Ontario, Canada
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Kanagawa, Japan
Janus Foundation, Denver, Colorado
John F. Joity, Houston, Texas
John and Diane Kin Fund of the Schwab Fund for
Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
Jamie Baker Knauss, San Marino, California
William L. Kopp, Jackson, Missouri
Joseph T. A. and Elsie Choy Lee Fund of the Fidelity
Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Harvey E. Lemmen, Grand Rapids
Robert R. Levine, Grand Rapids
Marc Lippman, Ann Arbor
Lorenz Comstock Foundation of the Schwab Fund for
Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
Ann Lurie, Chicago, Illinois
Lutheran Community Foundation, Minneapolis,
Minnesota
Jeffrey N. Lutz, Grosse Pointe Farms
Paul W. McCracken, Ann Arbor
McKeen Foundation Trust
Micron Technology Foundation, Inc., Boise, Idaho
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company,
Saint Paul. Minnesota
John C. Morley, Cleveland Heights, Ohio


Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
Alexandra Munroe Fund, New York, New York
Muth Company, LLC, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
William A. Newman, Ann Arbor
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
0. & W., Inc., Wholesale Beer & Wine, Ypsilanti
Lewis J. Paper, Potomac, Maryland
Perich & Partners. Ltd., Ann Arbor
Pharmaceutical Research Manufacturers of America,
Washington, D. C.
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation,
Arlington Heights, Illinois
PMA Consultants LLC, Ann Arbor
Philip H. Power, Ann Arbor
Kathryn A. Renken, Ann Arbor
Richard H. Rogel, Avon, Colorado
Rosenkranz Charitable Foundation, New York,
New York
Nancy W. Rugani, Traverse City
Richard A. Schirtzer, Malibu, California
Shapiro Family Charitable Foundation, Beverly HIills,
California
Louis and Nellie Sieg Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
Mark H. Springer, Westlake Village, California
Target Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
TCF National Bank, Ann Arbor
JAW-GM Human Resource Center, Detroit
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
Joseph D. Whiteman, Stowe, Vermont
Kensall D. Wise, Ann Arbor
Georgetta A. Wolff, Huntington Beach, California
Women's Leadership Forum, Detroit
Kathryn and Walter Wriston Family Fund of the Fidelity
Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts


Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
Executive Vice President Slottow called attention to the appointment of Gloria Hage as
interim associate vice president and chief human resource officer.
NEW APPOINTMENT FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND
FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on January 1, 2004
Scavia, Donald, Ph.D., Professor of Natural Resources and Environment and Director, Michigan Sea
Grant, School of Natural Resources and Environment
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cao, Yue, Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, without tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Radiology, without tenure, Medical School, December 1, 2003
Lopatin, Dennis E., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, also appointed Senior Associate Dean, School of
Dentistry, January 1, 2004-December 31, 2009
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Briggs, Josephine P., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology, without
tenure, Medical School, public service leave extended, May 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Collins, Francis S., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human Genetics,
without tenure, Medical School, public service leave extended, April 4, 2003-April 3, 2004


149




IUecember M/eeting, 20)03


Nabel, Gary J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Biological Chemistry,
without tenure, Medical School, public service leave extended, April 1, 2003-March 31, 2004
Sieving, Paul A., Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with tenure, Medical School, public
service leave extended, June 17, 2003-June 16, 2004
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SEL   ECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establisbh  E^ do wed Pr[^__'__ i s
Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in Cardiovascular Research, Medical School, January 1, 2004
Roger L. McCarthy Professorship in Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1, 2004
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
A__pointments to Collegi'te o. or   s:
Durrance, Joan C., Margaret Mann Collegiate Professor of Information, School of Information,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2008
Guan, Kun-liang, Halvor N. Christensen Collegiate Professor in the Life Sciences, Life Sciences
Institute, November 1, 2003-October 31, 2008
Obbink, Dirk, Ludwig Koenen Collegiate Professor of Papyrology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2008
Appointment to Endowed Professorshi
Francis, Jacqueline R., William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of the History of Art, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2004-December 31, 2008
Appointment tol Tamed Preo__ri po
Donia, Robert J., Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Reappointm  ent to Collegiate Professorship
Vedejs, Edwin, Moses Gomberg Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Other Transactions
Hage, Gloria A., Interim Associate Vice President and Chief Human Resource Officer, Office of the
Associate Vice President for Finance, December 8, 2003
Warren, Larry, reappointed with change in title from Executive Director to Director and Chief Executive
Officer, University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers, March 12, 2004 -March 11, 2008
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
UnBiversok   ofi, chiganDe arborn Collee  Arts, Siences and Letter s,r2ecutive Committ3ee
Bolkosky, Sidney M., reappointed, retroactive, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Gelderloos, Orin G., reappointed, retroactive, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Stockton, Ronald R., reappointed, retroactive, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
-Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY         APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bogun, Frank, M.D., Assistant Professor of Cardiovascular Medicine, Medical School,
December 1, 2003-November 30, 2006
Davis, Mary Lou, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Organizational Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004


150




Millicember M/eeting, 20)03


Eisentraeger, Anne K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2007
French, Nancy, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Environment, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Garrett, Charles H., M.A., Instructor in Music (Musicology), School of Music,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2005
Hadley, Scott W., Ph.D., Clinical Instructor in Radiation Oncology, Medical School,
November 1, 2003-October 31, 2004
Israel, Shirley, M.A., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Janke, Ellen L., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School,
November 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Karam, Lina B., M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
December 1, 2003-November 30, 2005
Kowalenko, Gregory, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2004
Lumeng, Julie C., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Miteza, Ilir, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Nelson, J. Michael, D.O., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
December 1, 2003-November 30, 2004
Partridge, Damani J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Passamani, Peter P., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
December 1, 2003-November 30, 2006
Woods, Rochelle L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in American Culture Program, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, November 1-December 31, 2003
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Ray, Michael E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, August 1, 2003-July 31, 2004
(previously reported as Clinical Lecturer in Radiation Oncology)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anusaksathien, Orasa, from Lecturer to Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
November 1, 2003-October 31, 2004
Chan, June L., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School,
November 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Cueto, Nisrin B., from Lecturer to Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
September 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Martin, Donna M., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Paul, Janice C., Assistant Professor of Art, School of Art and Design, also appointed Assistant Professor
of Social Work, School of Social Work, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2008
Wechsler, Stephanie, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, also
appointed Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
November 1, 2003-October 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUSiA FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Aminoff, David, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Bacon, George E., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
November 1, 2003-October 31, 2004
Brown, Allan C., Associate Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Department of Anesthesiology and
Associate Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 10, 2003-August 31, 2004
151




IUecember M/eeting, 20)03


Coon, Minor J., Victor V. Vaughan Distinguished University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus
of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, February 1, 2004-January 31, 2005
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban Planning, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, January 1-April 30, 2004
Goldstein, Irwin J., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2004
Jourdain, George W., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine and Professor Emeritus of Biological
Chemistry, Medical School, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Lindenauer, S. Martin, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School,
December 1, 2003-November 30, 2004
Menlo, Allen, Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, January 1-April 30, 2004
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Santinga, John T., Associate Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2003-September 30, 2004
Singer, J. David, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Stern, Robert M., Professor Emeritus of Economics and Public Policy, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Professor Emeritus of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Tanter, Raymond, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Zweifler, Andrew J., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY APPOINTMENTS
Burkel, William E., Professor Emeritus of Anatomical Sciences, Medical School,
October 5, 2003-April 30, 2004 (previously reported as October 5, 2003-October 4, 2004)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abdu, Hasina M., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science, extended sick leave, July 22-August 31, 2003, family medical
leave, September 1-November 24, 2003, and childcare leave, November 25, 2003-April 30, 2004
Behar, Ruth, Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Blane, Caroline E., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
October 1-December 31, 2003
Bolcom, William E., Ross Lee Finney Distinguished University Professor of Music and Professor of
Music, with tenure, School of Music, outside teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Bornstein, George J., C. A. Patrides Collegiate Professor of English and Professor of English Language
and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Boyd, Carol J., Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, and Professor of Women's Studies,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Bretz, Michael, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended
sick leave, September 22, 2003-May 31, 2004
Bude, Ronald O., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, April 1-July 1, 2004
Cogburn, Derrick L., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information, and Assistant Professor
of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Cortina, Kai S., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Curzan, Anne L., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Dipietro, Michael A., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
April 1-July 4, 2004


152




December Meeting, 2003


Ekotto, Frieda, Associate Professor of French, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Comparative
Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Francis, Isaac R., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 1-March 31, 2004
Freese, Katherine, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extended sick leave, September 22-December 31, 2003
Goldman, Daniel J., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2003-February 29, 2004
Goodison, Loma G., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Gunning, Sandra R., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, Associate
Professor of American Studies, without tenure, and Associate Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Hesseltine, Douglas H., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, extended sick leave,
September 1, 2003-February 29, 2004
Ignelzi, Michael A., Jr., Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry, sabbatical
leave, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Jackson, Trachette L., Associate Professor of Mathematics, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Johnson, Richard A., Clinical Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2003-June 30, 2005
Kazerooni, Ella A., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, extended sick leave,
July 23-October 2, 2003
Lamm, Doron, Lecturer III in Hebrew Languages, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended
sick leave, September 27, 2003-March 25, 2004
Lay, Howard G., Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Li, Victor C., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Lichter, Allen S., Newman Family Professor of Radiation Oncology, Professor of Radiation Oncology,
with tenure, and Dean, Medical School, administrative leave, December 5, 2003-February 29, 2004
Long, Michael W., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School,
personal leave, September 15, 2003-September 15, 2004
Lynch, John W., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
MacCallum, Donald K., Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with tenure, Medical School,
retirement furlough, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Mallick, Pankaj K., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of
Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Merchant, Juanita L., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Molecular and
Integrative Physiology, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, August 1-October 31, 2003
and January 1-March 31, 2004
Murray, Susan, Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Olson, Gary M., Paul M. Fitts Collegiate Professor of Human Computer Interaction, Professor of
Information, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of Information, and Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Perakis, Anastassios N., Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure,
College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Pietrykowski, Bruce A., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Rasmussen, James E., Professor of Dermatology, Department of Dermatology, with tenure, and Professor
of Dermatology, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical
School, retirement furlough, October 23, 2002-June 30, 2004
Rebeiz, Gabriel M., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Robertson, Jennifer E., Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Roddier, Mireille, Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, personal leave, January 1-December 31, 2004


153




Millicember M/eeting, 20)03


Samuelson, Linda C., Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Sanchez, Maria, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Shih, Margaret J., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Sick, Volker, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Sloan, Richard G., Victor L. Bernard-PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP Collegiate Professor of Accounting
and Professor of Accounting and Finance, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Sneider, Michael B., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, extended sick leave,
July 7-September 7, 2003
Solon, Gary R., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Taheri, Paul A., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Thomas, John C., Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Ulsoy, A. Galip, William Clay Ford Professor of Manufacturing and Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, intergovernmental leave,
January 1, 2003-December 31, 2004
Vine, Andrew K., Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, October 1, 2003-January 31, 2004
Williams, Charles H., Jr., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Yaeger, Patricia S., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2003
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Cotera, Maria E., Assistant Professor of Latino Studies and Assistant Professor of Women's Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
(previously reported as September 1-December 31, 2003)
Fine, John V., Jr., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Litearture, Science, and the Arts,
extended sick leave, September 17, 2003-May 31, 2004 (previously reported as September
17-December 31, 2003)
Steams, Carola H., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences, College of Litearture, Science, and the Arts, extended
sick leave, March 30-August 31, 2003 (previously reported as March 30-September 30, 2003)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Epperson, James F., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2003
Flint, Leroy E., Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, December 31, 2003
Kalmar, Pamela J., Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, December 31, 2003
Peura, Melissa A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31, 2003
Rajagopalan, Sanjay, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 26, 2003
Retired
Easter, Stephen S., Jr., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2003
Fogel, Robert D., Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer Professor of Fungal Taxonomy and
Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2003
Heirch, Jane R., Lecturer III in Music, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2003
Jacobs, Lloyd A., Professor of Vascular Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, November 14, 2003
Term Completed
Becker, Robert C., Assistant Professor of Education, Navy Officer Education Program, November 28, 2003
Holbrook, Latisha L., Lecturer II in Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2000
154




IDecember Meeting, 2003


Knoll, Glenn F., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering, October 31, 2003
Letcher, Abby S., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Lukas, Lou A., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2003
Throne, Stephanie S., Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 31, 2004
Williamson, Jack H., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, May 31, 2003
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted memoirs for nine
retiring faculty members.
Harold J. Borkin, professor of architecture in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, will retire on December 31, 2003.
Professor Borkin received his B.Arch. (1957) and M.Arch. (1959) degrees from
the University of Michigan, where he also was awarded the Albert Kahn Fellowship in
Architecture (1957). He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in 1961
and was promoted to assistant professor in 1963, associate professor in 1968, and
professor in 1973. He served as chair of the doctoral program in architecture from
1978-81 and from 1985-87.
Focusing on design early in his career, Professor Borkin entered and won a
number of competitions, including the Elmwood Housing Project with Green and Savin
in 1964, the first stage of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Competition with
Wehrer and Johnson in 1960-61, and the first stage of the Toronto city hall and civic
square competition with Hayward and Wehrer in 1959.     After co-founding the
Architecture and Planning Research Lab, Professor Borkin's interests shifted to the
development of computer-aided architectural design with an emphasis on integrated
design systems, geometric modeling, building representation, simulation, and design
evaluation.  He brought the University to the forefront of architectural programs
offering CAD curricula, and he fostered curricular and research innovation by using a
multi-disciplinary approach to architectural graduate studies. In 2000, Professor Borkin
was inducted into the Permanent Research Collection on Information Technology at the
Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History for his work on
architectural design tools.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Harold J.
Borkin professor emeritus of architecture.
David L. Chambers, III, LL.B., Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate Professor of
Law and professor of law in the Law School, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 2003, after an extraordinary career of teaching, administration, and
research.
Professor Chambers received his A.B. degree from Princeton University in 1962
and his LL.B. degree from Harvard University in 1965. He worked in private practice
(1965-67), served as special assistant to the executive director of the National Advisory
Commission on Civil Disorders (1967-68), and was counsel to the Cabinet Committee
on Price Stability in the Council of Economic Advisors (1968-69). Professor Chambers
joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1969 and was
promoted to associate professor in 1972 and professor in 1974. He was appointed the
Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Law in 1990.
A leader in studying the legal profession and the area of legal education, Professor
Chambers placed a particular emphasis on the provision of legal services to the poor
and working class. His contributions to legal scholarship and education, the legal


155




December Meeting, 2003


profession, and to society are many. Professor Chambers served as chair of the board of
Michigan Legal Services, president and member of the board of the Society of
American Law Teachers, and chair of the administrative committee of the UAW-Ford
Legal Services Plan. He was also a member of the planning committee for the
Association of American Law Schools (AALS) Conference on New Ideas in Legal
Education, a member of the AALS executive committee, and chair of the AALS
Commission on Pro Bono and Public Service. Within the Law School, he developed
and served as director of the South Africa Externship Program. Professor Chambers'
scholarship includes Making Fathers Pay: The Enforcement of Child Support, a
pioneering book and important example of the use of empirical techniques in addressing
legal problems. His recent work on AIDS and same-sex marriage and his surveys of the
work and professional life of Law School graduates have been widely influential.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator for his long and
dedicated service by naming David L. Chambers, III, professor emeritus of law.
Stephen S. Easter, Jr., Ph.D., professor of molecular, cellular, and developmental
biology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active
faculty status on December 31, 2003.
Professor Easter received his B.S. degree from Yale University in 1960 and his
Ph.D. degree from The Johns Hopkins University in 1967. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1970 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1974 and professor in 1980. In July 1998, he was awarded the Mathew
Alpern Collegiate Professorship in Biology, a title he held through June 2003.
Professor Easter's major research accomplishments are in the area of visual
neuroscience. His early work dealt with the basic physiological mechanisms by which
light impinging on the retina gives rise to neural signals and with how the brain moves
the eyes so that an object stays in view when either the object or the viewer is in
motion. For the last twenty years, his research has concentrated on issues related to
developmental neurobiology. He recognized that the visual system of fish offered
considerable experimental advantages for analyzing how growing axons find their
targets, and his work on the development of the projection of axons from the retina to
the optic tectum led to great international recognition.
In both large introductory courses and small graduate seminars, Professor Easter
was recognized as an outstanding teacher. He was committed to helping his students
express their ideas clearly, both orally and in writing. Professor Easter trained an
impressive array of students and post-doctoral fellows, who have gone on to hold
faculty positions at prestigious universities throughout the United States and abroad.
He also gave generously of his time for University service, including membership on
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee and service as
associate chair of the Department of Biology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher for his
dedicated service by naming Stephen S. Easter, Jr., professor emeritus of molecular,
cellular, and developmental biology.
Robert D. Fogel, Ph.D., the Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer
Professor in Fungal Taxonomy, professor of biology, and curator of fungi in the


156




IDecember Meeting, 2003


Herbarium in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active
faculty status on December 31, 2003.
Professor Fogel received his B.S. (1969) and Ph.D. (1978) degrees from Oregon
State University and his M.A. degree from the University of Colorado (1970). He joined
the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor and assistant curator in 1978
and was promoted to associate professor and associate curator in 1984 and professor and
curator in 1995. From 1989-91, he also held an appointment as associate professor of
natural resources. He was named the Lewis E. Wehmeyer and Elaine Prince Wehmeyer
Professor in Fungal Taxonomy in 2001.
An expert on hypogeous fungi, Professor Fogel focused on the hypogeous
mycoflora of the Great Basin and adjacent Cordilleras in the western United States. He
also researched the role of mycorrhizal fungi in ecosystem processes and led the
construction of a biotron for studying soil ecology at the Biological Station. As curator
of fungi, Professor Fogel nurtured the growth of one of the world's major fungal
herbaria, and he created an on-line database of fungus collection specimens, complete
with linked DNA sequences, images, and distribution maps.
Professor Fogel taught courses on mycology and on microbial ecology, both on the
Ann Arbor campus and at the Biological Station and has received the Class of 1923
Award for Undergraduate Teaching. He also served on 20 dissertation committees and
numerous undergraduate honors thesis committees, and he authored and maintains the
award-winning outreach website, Fun Facts about Fungi.
Professor Fogel is a member of the British Mycological Society, the Mycological
Society of America, and the North American Mycological Association. An active
member of Sigma Xi, he served as president of the University's chapter (2001-03) and
received a National Program Award for the forum, "Internet Education and the
Research University" (2001).
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Robert D. Fogel professor
emeritus of biology and curator emeritus.
Robert E. Lewis, Ph.D., professor of English language and literature in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and executive director and research scientist
of the Middle English Dictionary, will retire from active faculty status on December 31,
2003.
Professor Lewis received his B.A. degree from Princeton University in 1959 and
his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from The University of Pennsylvania in 1962 and 1964,
respectively. He was appointed to the faculty of Indiana University in 1963 and rose to
the rank of professor in 1975. Professor Lewis joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1982 as professor and co-editor of the Middle English Dictionary (MED) and
research scientist and was promoted to editor in 1983. He was named executive
director of the MED in 1990.
Begun in 1930, the MED survived the Depression and World War II and is the
most important research project in the humanities to date at the University of Michigan.
Professor Lewis' greatest accomplishments and most enduring contributions are
grounded in his work as the final editor of this project. For nearly two decades,
Professor Lewis worked unremittingly as a fund-raiser, recruiter and trainer of new
sub-editors, and the last gate-keeper of the MED. He was the "meta-editor," the person


157




December Meeting, 2003


solely responsible for the accuracy, consistency, and excellence of the final published
work. In 2001, the printed dictionary arrived at the end of the alphabet, and almost
simultaneously the electronic version came on line completely searchable and available
for supplementation and correction.  With more than 15,000 printed pages, this
reference work is a centerpiece for research in medieval English culture.
Professor Lewis takes pride in all his contributions to medieval studies,
particularly in his essays on Chaucer and The Pricke of Conscience. In addition, he is a
skilled bibliographer and co-editor of the Index of Printed Middle English Prose (1985).
Yet it is as editor of the MED where his fame rests. He sought skilled helpers and
nurtured them; he worked to an exacting schedule; he finished the course. It is for this
work that he most deserves special celebration.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Robert E. Lewis
professor emeritus of English language and literature, executive director emeritus of the
Middle English Dictionary, and research scientist emeritus.
Frank F. Maple, Jr., professor of social work in the School of Social Work, will
retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2003.
Professor Maple received his B.A., M.A., and M.S.W. degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1951, 1953, and 1963, respectively. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1963 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1968 and professor in 1975.
Professor Maple's primary research interests include group and family treatment
and interviewing methods for social work. Based on his work in these areas, he
published Goal Focused Interviewing, a series of eight interactive computer programs
for use in interpersonal practice methods classes. The series included three units on
interviewing, two on group treatment, one on marital therapy, and two on family
therapy. He was also co-author of the book Creating Groups, and published three other
books: Shared Decision   Making, Dynamic Interviewing, and     Goal Focused
Interviewing.
At the W.J. Maxey Boys Training School in Whitmore Lake, Michigan, Professor
Maple developed a combined family therapy and group leader model of treatment that
was implemented in the school's residential setting. He also created interactive videos
designed to train students and professionals to conduct treatment sessions with
individuals, families, and groups. These were field-tested by more than 500 students
and practitioners and received uniformly high evaluations. He served on numerous
University and school committees and was a member of several professional societies
including the National Association of Social Workers and the National Education
Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Frank F.
Maple, Jr., professor emeritus of social work.
William J. Meyer, Ph.D., professor of political science in the College of Arts and
Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 2003.
Professor Meyer received his B.A. degree from St. John Fisher College in 1965 and
his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from The Pennsylvania State University in 1968 and 1973,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan-Flint faculty as a lecturer in 1970


158




IUecember Meeting, 2003


and was promoted to instructor in 1971, assistant professor in 1973, associate professor
in 1977, and professor in 1992.
Professor Meyer taught political theory curriculum in the Department of Political
Science for over thirty years. He published two books, many articles in political theory
and ethics, and numerous professional papers, all of which reflected his primary
intellectual interests in American political thought and democratic political theory. More
recently, his interests involving issues of citizenship and civic action have produced a
number of edited collections. In addition, Professor Meyer was a key contributor to an
oral history archive of the 1936 Flint Sit-Down Strike on its 50th anniversary, and he
helped develop several local public history projects.
A founding member of the college's Master of Liberal Studies in American
Culture Program, Professor Meyer was the program's director from 1981-84. He
chaired the chancellor search committee from 1983-84, served as director of graduate
studies from 1985-89, and was department chair from 1980-81 and 1992-95. He was a
faculty counselor for academic support services from 1991-93, interim vice provost for
academic affairs from 1995-96, and chair of the Faculty Council from 2001-02.
Professor Meyer made outstanding contributions to the field of political theory, to the
liberal arts education of many generations of students, and to the collective memory of the
Flint community. The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming William J. Meyer professor emeritus of political science.
Cornelia P. Porter, Ph.D., associate professor of nursing in the School of Nursing,
retired from active faculty status on June 20, 2003.
Professor Porter received her B.S.N. degree from Russell Sage College in 1963,
her M.N.Ed. degree from the University of Pittsburgh in 1966, and her Ph.D. degree
from the University of Arizona in 1985. She specialized in oncology nursing at New
York University from 1959-60, received certification as a pediatric nurse practitioner
from the University of Rochester in 1969, served as an assistant professor and pediatric
nurse practitioner at Yale University and the Yale-New Haven Hospital from 1977-80,
and was a graduate associate in research at the University of Arizona from 1980-85.
Professor Porter joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in
1986, was appointed assistant research scientist in 1992, and was promoted to associate
professor in 1995. She was the first African American to serve as associate professor
with tenure in the School of Nursing.
Professor Porter taught undergraduate and graduate courses on health promotion
and risk reduction programs in which she challenged students to think about health
disparities within the African American community from both clinical and research
perspectives. She had a keen interest in the relationship between social knowledge and
the mental health of ethnic/minority school children and how social knowledge is
interpreted and acted upon.
After being inducted into the American Academy of Nursing in 1983, Professor
Porter received an ethnic/minority clinical nursing fellowship.  She served as an
American Nurses Association ethnic/minority legislative intern in Washington, D.C.,
and received an Honor-A-Researcher award from the ethnic/minority health research
section of the Midwest Nursing Research Society. Professor Porter was the principle
author of the contemporary classic, "Nursing Research with African American and


159




December Meeting, 2003


Hispanic People: Guidelines for Action" in Nursing Outlook, and her research has been
cited in numerous publications.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Cornelia P. Porter
associate professor emerita of nursing.
Albert F. Yee, Ph.D., professor of materials science and engineering, professor of
macromolecular science and engineering, and professor of chemical engineering in the
College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2003.
A California native, Professor Yee received his B.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of California-Berkeley in 1967 and 1971, respectively. From 1971-85, he
worked in the Polymer Physics Unit of the General Electric Research and Development
Center, serving as manager of the Structural Design with Plastics Program from
1981-84. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1985 as professor of
materials and metallurgical engineering (now known as materials science and
engineering). He received additional appointments as professor of macromolecular
science and engineering in 1992 and professor of chemical engineering in 1999.
Professor Yee was the founding director of the Center for Advanced Polymer
Engineering Research (CAPER) and served as chair of the Department of Materials
Science and Engineering from 1994-2000. While on leave from the University of
Michigan, Professor Yee was director of the Institute of Materials Research and
Engineering in Singapore from 2000-03.
Well known for his research on theory and development of tough polymers,
Professor Yee also worked broadly in nonlinear viscoelasticity, relaxation and
molecular motions in polymers, and biaxial deformation mechanics of solid polymers.
He made major contributions to our understanding of the toughening mechanisms in
engineering plastics and epoxies and the nature of relaxations in glassy polymers, and
he has an international reputation in his field. He holds two patents and has co-authored
three books and more than 140 papers during his career.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Albert F. Yee professor
emeritus of materials science and engineering, professor emeritus of macromolecular
science and engineering, and professor emeritus of chemical engineering.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Six-Month Report on University Audits
The Regents received the six-month report on University Audits activities for the
period April 1, 2003 through September 30, 2003.
Fiscal Year 2005 Capital Outlay Submission, All Campuses
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted information about the Fiscal Year 2005
Capital Outlay submission to the state.


160




Iecenber Meeting, 2003


Mary Markley Residence Hall Fire Alarm          System  Upgrade and Elevator
Replacement
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents approved
the Mary Markley Residence Hall-Fire Alarm System Upgrade and Elevator Replacement
Project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for
bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget. Executive Vice President Slottow reported that a similar project for South Quad,
approved last year, had come in at approximately 300o under budget, primarily due to the
concerted efforts of staff overseeing the project.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman noted that the agenda includes 8 conflict of interest items
(numbers 4-11), each of which requires 6 votes for approval. Regent Richner requested
that item #5, "Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc.," be considered separately. On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded
by Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Purchasing Contract with M. W. ProctorGroup LLC
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with M. W. ProctorGroup LLC for
development and preparation of a research proposal. However, because Mary C. Proctor,
an Equal Member of M. W. ProctorGroup LLC, is also a University of Michigan
employee, this purchasing contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.  The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Emergency Medicine and M. W. ProctorGroup LLC.
2.   The service provided is development and preparation of a research proposal for a time
period of 6 to 9 months, for a total dollar amount of $10,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mary C. Proctor, a University of
Michigan employee, is an Equal Member of M. W. ProctorGroup LLC.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan
Aerospace Corporation
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Michigan Aerospace
Corporation ("Company") in connection with the project "Phoenix Meteorology (MET)
Experiment." Because Dr. Lennard Fisk, is a partial owner of the Company and a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan Aerospace
Corporation.
2.   The terms of the Agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
is from January 1, 2003 through July 31, 2007, and the amount of the agreement to
Michigan Aerospace Corporation is not to exceed $300,000. The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply. Since research agreements are often
amended, the subcontract includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope.
University of Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.


161




December Meeting, 2003


3.   Dr. Fisk's pecuniary interest arises from his partial ownership of Michigan Aerospace
Corporation. He is not involved in the project at either the University of Michigan or
at Michigan Aerospace Corporation.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Mechanical Systems
Corporation
The Regents approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and
Mechanical Systems Corporation (MSC) to support the Ph.D. thesis of Steven Karamihas
at the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute (UMTRI). Because
Thomas Gillespie, a University of Michigan employee, is also a director and stockholder
in MSC, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Mechanical Systems
Corporation.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy.
The amount of the agreements with four affiliate sponsors and the University will total
approximately $200,000. The period of performance is two years with the possibility
for renewal and extension. Dr. Gillespie will act as principal investigator for the
University's project, receiving minimal support from project funds which are intended
to support Mr. Karamihas as an UMTRI employee and Ph.D. student. The affiliate
agreement gives no rights to the various sponsors for a commercially acceptable
software product incorporated into TruckSim.
3.   Dr. Gillespie's pecuniary interest arises from his status as director and stockholder in
MSC.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Michigan Aerospace
Corporation
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Michigan Aerospace Corporation ("Company") for funding of a research proposal.
Because Lennard Fisk is both a partial owner of the Company and a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The   following   information  is provided   in  compliance with     statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Michigan Aerospace
Corporation.
2.   The University's Research Roundtable Agreement, which conforms with University
policies, was previously used for the initial research and will be used for the proposed
research continuation. The amount of the agreement to the University is $100,000.
The period of performance is 12 months. Since research agreements are often
amended, the subcontract includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope.
University of Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Fisk's pecuniary interest arises from his status as partial owner of Michigan
Aerospace Corporation. He is not involved in the research, either at the University or
at the Company.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Molecular
Therapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. involving collaboration on the research project, "Cancer
Diagnosis and Therapy with Dynamic Nanoplatforms." Because the owners of Molecular
Therapeutics, Dr. Brian Ross and Dr. Alnawaz Rehemtulla, are also University of
Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
162




December Meeting, 2003


Statute.   The   following   information  is provided   in  compliance    with  statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Molecular Therapeutics,
Inc.
2.   The total award to the University of Michigan will be $7,039,188. A total subcontract
of approximately $4,292,665 is planned for Molecular Therapeutics, Inc., covering the
period September 30, 2003, through September 29, 2006. The University's standard
subcontract provisions will apply. Since research agreements are often amended, the
subcontract includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University of
Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Drs. Ross and Rehemtulla's pecuniary interest arises from their status as owners of
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. Neither is involved in the project.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Veridian Systems
Division, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Veridian Systems Division, Inc., involving collaboration with Dr. David Walker of
Veridian Systems Division, Inc. Because Dr. Walker also holds a 0% appointment at the
University of Michigan, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Veridian Systems
Division, Inc.
2.   The ONR contract contains standard terms and conditions. The subcontract to
Veridian Systems Division, Inc., is for $325,088 for the period covering November
26, 2002 through December 31, 2003. The period of performance on the prime award
with the University of Michigan has been extended to January 31, 2004, and Dr.
Ceccio would like to add an additional month without an increase in funding to the
agreement with Veridian. The University's standard subcontract provisions will
apply.  Since research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes
provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope.  University of Michigan
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed, and additional review by
the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Walker's pecuniary interest arises from his status as an employee of Veridian
Systems Division, Inc.
Reassignment Agreement between           the University   of Michigan     and   Richard
Solomon
The Regents approved a reassignment agreement with Richard Solomon involving
rights to the invention, "PLAY Project Level One Workshop CD-ROM." Because Dr.
Solomon is a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.      The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Richard Solomon
("Inventor").
2.   Reassignment terms include:
The Inventor will be responsible for paying all patent or copyright expenses to protect
the technology.
The Inventor will provide an annual report of all activities related to the program.
The University will maintain a royalty free license to use the program for research and
academic purposes.
163




Millicember M/eeting, 20)03


The University will obtain a 15% share of any income received by the Inventor.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Solomon arises from his ownership of the technology.
Option    Agreement    between    the   University   of  Michigan    and   Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc.
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
approved an option agreement between the University of Michigan and Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc. Regent Richner did not participate in the vote due to a conflict of
interest.  Because Dr. H. David Humes holds and equity interest in Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc. and is also a University of Michigan employee, this option agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Innovative Biotherapies,
Inc.
2.   License terms include:
Field of Use: All fields
Grant: Exclusive for 12 months, can be extended an additional 12 months upon
payment of extension fee in addition to the option fee paid at signing of the agreement.
Patent Expenses: Innovative Biotherapies will reimburse UM's patent expenses
incurred during the option period.
Exercise:  Prior to OTT entering into license negotiations with Innovative
Biotherapies, the company will need to demonstrate: i) an identified and committed
experienced and capable management team; ii) an appropriate commercialization
strategy; and iii) a capitalization plan indicating sufficient access to capital to enable
the commercialization plan to be executed.
The University will retain ownership of the optioned technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   Dr. Humes' pecuniary interests arise from his ownership interest in Innovative
Biotherapies. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue
received by the University from the company.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) East Ann Arbor
Ambulatory Surgery and Medical Procedures Center
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the East Ann Arbor Ambulatory Surgery and Medical Procedures
Center Project as described in the Regents Communication and authorized commissioning
Albert Kahn Associates for its design.
Health Insurance Plan Designs and Premium Structures
Provost Courant commented that the University's share of health insurance
premiums has increased from $85 million to nearly $175 million over the past 5 years. He
noted that throughout the deliberations of the faculty-led committee appointed to make
recommendations regarding the future design of the University's health care insurance
premium structure, the message has been clear that the goal is to curtail the rise in health
care costs without sacrificing high-quality, comprehensive, and competitive health
benefits. He reviewed the premium structure changes that will be put in place for
implementation in January 2005:


164




IUecember Meeting, 2003


* The University will provide a higher share of the cost of coverage for
employees and retirees than for dependents and will provide a higher share
of the cost of coverage in lower-cost plans than for more expensive plans.
* The University contribution to health insurance premiums for employees
will be 95% of the average premium cost for the two lowest-cost
comprehensive plans, and after figuring the average cost of all individuals
covered--including employees, retirees, and their covered dependents--the
aggregate University payment in 2005 will be 85% of the premium cost.
* We will move from a three-tier (single employees, two-person households,
and families of three or more people) to a four-tier (the addition of a
category consisting of one adult with any number of children) structure of
coverage. Since on average, children are less expensive to cover than
adults, this will lower the total cost of coverage from what it otherwise
would have been for the households which fit into the fourth tier.
Although the committee recommended that co-premiums for prescription drugs
and for health insurance be calculated separately, to simplify plan design and
administration they will be calculated together. Another recommendation, that the
University maintain the aggregate University contribution at 85% for three years, may
not be possible to achieve in the current health care environment. However, the
University is committed to providing the community with significant advance notice
before the implementation of any changes to allow for campus discussion and to give
employees the opportunity to plan ahead.
Provost Courant commented on the feedback received from the campus
community about this plan. Many expressed concern that the lowest-paid employees
bear more of a burden when costs are increased. After considerable review and
discussion, the administration agreed with the committee's assessment that trying to
find a solution for different levels of employee income is not feasible and raises issues
of fairness, consistency, and benefits administration. Issues related to the lowest-paid
staff need to be addressed more comprehensively, and the administration will continue
to work to address these challenges.
Provost Courant expressed his appreciation for the work of the health insurance
premium redesign committee and expressed confidence that the changes to be
implemented in January 2005 that are based on the committee's recommendations will
enable the University community to maintain high-quality benefits in the years ahead.
Executive Vice President Kelch observed that escalation in health care costs is not
likely to abate soon and that the committee's recommendations reflect the reality of the
national landscape while upholding the commitment to employees to provide a robust
benefits package, which is essential to recruiting and retaining faculty and staff. He
noted that changes in the premium structure will mean that employees will begin to
consider cost as a factor in their decision, and that should lead in a mitigation of the
total cost for health insurance coverage. Dr. Kelch commented that as both an insurer
and a health care provider, the University of Michigan Health System has a special
responsibility to control costs.


165




IUecember Meeting, 2003


Dr. Kelch pointed out that research shows that encouraging healthier lifestyles and
wellness practices can help to control health care costs. He said the M-Care and M-Fit
units should take leadership roles in helping the University to develop new worksite
health and education programs for University employees.
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that decisions regarding health
insurance premiums will be communicated to the campus community in January 2004.
This will be followed by negotiations with vendors in February, distribution of
descriptive materials in late summer, and open enrollment in October, with the new
rates to be in place beginning January 2005. The new rate structure will also be
incorporated into negotiations with labor unions as their current contracts expire. He
pointed out that insurance premiums are paid with pretax dollars, which lowers the net
cost to employees. He also noted that employees have been encouraged to take
advantage of flexible spending account programs, which use pretax dollars to pay for
out-of-pocket health care costs.
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that the committee had
recommended consideration of an additional portable comprehensive plan other than
Blue Cross/Blue Shield and that this recommendation is being pursued. He stated that
the administration is "absolutely committed" to developing mechanisms for providing
ongoing opportunities for input from the campus community and all key stakeholders
on issues surrounding health benefit design.
Regent Deitch commented that the process outlined by the executive vice
presidents and in the Regents Communication will provide opportunities for thoughtful
discussions and dialog with the constituency before recommendations are made
regarding health insurance plans and premium structures. He moved the following:
That the 1988 Regental action item that has been used to determine health insurance
premium sharing be replaced by a process that will allow the University administration
the authority and flexibility to create each year the best possible approach to the
development of premiums. Annually, the administration will report to the Board on the
major trends and issues surrounding health insurance and the University's offerings and
premium structures for the following benefit year. This discussion will precede the
open enrollment period and will be an occasion for announcing changes to the
University community. Such reports shall be made sufficiently in advance of the
commencement of the open enrollment period to allow Regental action to be taken to
modify the recommendation should that be the decision of the Board of Regents. In the
development of its plans and understanding of the issues, the University would draw
widely upon the expertise, knowledge, and opinions of all segments of the University
community.
Regent McGowan seconded the motion. Regent Maynard commented that she is
pleased that there will be an ongoing study of how health care is handled at the
University, including examination of adding a wellness component.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.


166




DUecember Meeting, 2003


Comments from President Coleman
President Coleman commented about upcoming events, which include the Brown
versus Board of Education Theme Semester, the annual Martin Luther King Day
symposium, and the reopening of Hill Auditorium.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:55 p.m. The next
meeting will be held January 15, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


167




891


foozlNuijaajj.iaqwaaa(j




January Meeting, 2004


JANUARY MEETING, 2004
The University of Michigaun
Ann Arbor
T, hursday, January 15, 2004
The Regents convened at 2:40 p.m. in the General Motors Conference Hall, Lurie
Engineering Center. Present were President Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch,
McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Courant,
Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov,
Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers,
Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice
President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Maynard was absent.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and thanked Dean Director and the
College of Engineering for hosting the meeting. She announced that two agenda items
would be considered prior to the start of Public Comments.
Venture Capital Investment
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents approved
a commitment of up to $50.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to NQV Partners, L.P.
Regent McGowan recused herself from voting due to a conflict of interest.
Agreement between the University of Michigan and Great Lakes Commission
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
approved an agreement between the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Commission, involving the services of Jennifer Read as assistant director at a 20% time
commitment. Jennifer Read is also a University of Michigan staff member who is married
to the president and CEO of the Great Lakes Commission, Michael Donahue. Mr.
Donahue also holds a position as adjunct assistant professor in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment. Therefore, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and the Great Lakes
Commission.
2.   The terms of the agreement are acceptable and conform to University policy. The
amount of the agreement with the University is $20,682. The period of performance is
twelve months and is an extension of a prior agreement. Dr. Read will spend twenty
percent of her time at the Great Lakes Commission. While at the Commission, Thomas
Crane (or his designee) will have primary responsibility for overseeing Dr. Read's
work; ultimate authority will be to the director of Michigan Sea Grant.
3.   Dr. Read's pecuniary interest arises from her 20% employment at the Great Lakes
Commission.
Regents White and Taylor left the meeting at this point. President Coleman
announced that Public Comments would be the next order of business.


169




January Meeting, 2004


Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated:
Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown relationship; David Boyle, alumnus, on a
number of topics; Audrey Jackson, alumna, on racial diversity in higher education; and
Korbie Dannenberg, staff member, on her residency status.
Resolution in Honor of College of Engineering Sesquicentennial
President Coleman noted that the College of Engineering is launching its
sesquicentennial celebration. She called on Regent Newman.
Regent Newman called Dean Stephen Director to the podium and read the
following Regents' Resolution:
Regents' Resolution
One hundred and fifty years ago, the University of Michigan made the
momentous decision to offier a program of instruction in engineering. The first class
session was held on January 20, 1854.
With that single action our predecessors influenced the future profoundly ---
establishing the framework for an educational enterprise destined to improve the
quality of life for each succeeding generation. Through their wisdom and devotion to
the pursuit of knowledge, they opened the way for remarkable breakthroughs in
engineering and in technologies that have fostered prosperity and advancement around
the world.
Today, the University of Michigan College of Engineering occupies a position
of preeminence among the finest schools. In the spheres of education, research, and
service, its achievements are exemplary, its contributions vast, its influence global, and
its prospects for the future endless. Men and women from all nations, on campus and
as alumni, are enhancing lives every day.
The Regents congratulate the College of Engineering on its legacy of
leadership and look forward to continued significant accomplishments during the next
150 years.
Dean Director thanked the Regents for participating in this historic occasion
marking the 150th anniversary of the College of Engineering. He introduced a number
of college stakeholders who were in attendance and reviewed some of the
accomplishments of the college's faculty, students, and alumni since its founding that
had led to its preeminence among the world's colleges of engineering. He thanked the
Regents on behalf of the College of Engineering.
Comments from President Coleman
President Coleman commented on the reopening celebration for Hill Auditorium that
had occurred last week and noted that the event was well-attended and the renovation is
spectacular. She congratulated Associate Vice President Hank Baier and everyone else
who contributed to the project.
Regent Newman observed that credit should also be given to former president Lee
Bollinger, who had promoted the idea of doing a total renovation of the auditorium and
recognized its importance to the community and the University. President Coleman
agreed and noted that it had taken courage to promote the idea of a complete and total
restoration in the face of limited resources.
170




January Meeting, 2004


President Coleman commented on activities surrounding the University's
commemoration of the 50th anniversary of Brown v Board of Education and of the
Martin Luther King, Jr., holiday.
President Coleman concluded by mentioning the death in December 2003 of vice
president and secretary emeritus Richard L. Kennedy.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning. Topics discussed were the University of Michigan
Health System, including review of the quarterly report of performance and an update on
the 10-year capital plan. The other topic covered was an update of the FY 05 General
Fund budget outlook, along with a review of FY 04 progress to date. The committee
received reports on internal audit activities and on plans for insuring adequate controls in
clinical trials.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. The Compensation and Personnel
Committee did not meet this month.
Report on Research, Scholarship, and Creative Activity
Vice President Ulaby stated that his report would consist of two parts: a financial
summary for FY 2003, and examples of how the Office of the Vice President for Research
(OVPR) facilitates new research on campus.
He noted that research expenditures over the past five years have increased by
about 53%, with an increase of 14.3% ($94 million) during the last fiscal year. The $94
million in additional expenditure impacts the economy by being responsible for more
than 1,700 University and non-University jobs and more than $7 million in state tax
revenue.
Vice President Ulaby reported that 70.4% of the total research expenditures came
from the federal government and 15.2% from University of Michigan funds, with the
remainder being divided among industry, foundations, state and local governments, and
other funding sources. Among the schools and colleges, 41.7% of external research
expenditures were made by the Medical School, 18.3% by the College of Engineering,
12.3% by the Institute for Social Research, 7.5% by the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, 5.7% by the School of Public Health, with the remainder divided among
the OVPR units and all other units. Total research expenditures in FY 2003 were
$637,404,821.
Vice President Ulaby displayed a chart illustrating that since 1997 total University
of Michigan expenditures from federal sources have increased by approximately 50%
per year over the total amount of available federal research and development funding.
He cautioned that for FY 2004, research funding at the University of Michigan is
estimated to increase by only 4%-5%, compared to 15.9% for FY 2003. This is due
primarily to the fact that the federal budget for research support will be decreasing
significantly in future years.
Vice President Ulaby then gave a presentation describing how the University's
central administration facilitates new research. He described five different ways this is


171




January Meeting, 2004


done, with examples of each. Among the methods by which research is facilitated are
a) faculty-driven initiatives in which the OVPR assists faculty in developing expertise
in emerging areas of research; b) identification of emerging critical research frontiers as
defined by the federal government, which leads to the formal launching of University
initiatives in a particular area (e.g., nanoscience research); c) partnering with industry to
work on specific areas of interest nationally and on campus (e.g., "Hydrogen Fuel
Research Roadmap"); d) connecting research to policy (education-driven) (e.g.,
development of the Science, Technology & Public Policy Program on campus); and e)
planning for the future (e.g., multi-institutional collaboration to establish a leadership
niche in an emerging area of research).
Vice President Ulaby concluded that central administration plays many roles in
fostering research and scholarship, in a cooperative and collegial manner.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Miinutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of December 18, 2003.
Reports, Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report,
Plant Extension Report, Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report, and the
Regents Report on Non-Competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources,
September 16 through November 30, 2003.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, December 1 - December 31, 2003.
University of Michigan Health System. No report was submitted.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper acknowledged the efforts of
Vice President Wilbanks and the University's Office of Services for Students with
Disabilities in working with the state legislature on a bill that requires publishers to
provide electronic versions of their textbooks for use by blind college students.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported that he had been
engaging in conversations with campus constituent groups about what the mission of
the Dearborn campus should be for the next ten years. An emerging theme is that the
University of Michigan-Dearborn should be engaged in the many communities and
constituencies it serves in Southeast Michigan.
He also reported that the campus has been working in partnership with New
Detroit, Inc., to establish a "conversation on race" with young people. Finally, he noted
that the campus has been involved in a number of activities in the area of health care
delivery.
University of Michigan-Flint. There was no report from the Flint campus.
Michigan Student Asse mbly Report. Ms. Angela Galardi, president of Michigan
Student Assembly, distributed the MSA "End of Semester Report." Ms. Galardi
commented that MSA has recognized that the William Monroe Trotter House is in dire


172




January Meeting, 2004


need of renovation and noted that it has established a new student task force to
communicate the history of this building and describe why it should be renovated.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May reported that work is progressing with
individual units across the University on formulating goals and objectives for the
upcoming campaign. Efforts are also underway to develop the case statement for the
campaign and to recruit leadership from across the country.
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
for support in the College of Pharmacy,
for the Medical School and the Schools of Business Administration, Nursing, and Public Health, and
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... $ 25,000
Barry A. Adelman Family Foundation, Scarsdale, New York
for the Barry Adelman Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School........................... 102,935
James N. Adler, Los Angeles, California
for the James N. Adler Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School......................... 20,000
Bruce B. Allen, Kentfield, California
2,789 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in  the Department of Athletics.................................................  104,780
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 100,154
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School and in the Division of Kinesiology.......................... 270,353
American Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration............................ 25,000
Aaron D. Amster, Los Angeles, California
335 shares of Camden National Corporation common stock
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Endowed Research Fund in the Medical School and
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................  10,050
Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Endowed Research Fund and
other support in the Medical School and
for the University Musical Society................................................. 32,000
Arnold H. Anderson, Brentwood, Tennessee
1,200 shares of American International Group common stock
for the Arnold Anderson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
the Horace H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies.........................................  76,212
Pauline V. Anderson, Cupertino, California
for research  in the College of Engineering.................................................  50,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in  the M edical School....................................................... 602,919
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Law School.................................................... 10,000
Anonymous Donor
for the University Hospitals and the University Musical Society............................... 150,000
Anonymous Donor
for research  in  the M edical School.......................................................  50,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..........................................  150,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Medical School and for the University Musical Society...................... 130,000
Anonymous Donor
for research  in  the M edical School.......................................................  10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health..................  121,333
Menakka Bailey, Ann Arbor
for support in the Center for the Education of Women..................................25,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Baldwin Fellowship in Astronomy in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Bank of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics, and for the University Musical Society............. 27,000
Frank W. Batsch, Naples, Florida
500 shares of Lancaster Colony Corporation common stock
for the Barbara and Frank Batsch Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 21,555
Lewis B. Becker, Sylvania, Ohio
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 50,000
173




January Meeting 2004


Steven C. Benz, Adrian
392 shares of Sky Financial Group, Inc., common stock
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................... 10,074
Donald R. Berg, Grand Rapids
1,760 shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 101,754
Robert Hunt Berry, Ann Arbor
407 shares of various corporate common stock
for research in the College of Engineering and the Medical Sc hool.............................. 15,868
Kenneth D. Betz, Rockford
8,085 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kenneth and Judy Betz Family Medicine Scholarship in the Medical School and
for the Kenneth and Judy Betz Endowment Funds in the College of Engineering and
the  L aw   School.....................................................................  326,652
Bruce P. Bickner, DeKalb, Illinois
for the Law   School Building  Fund......................................................  50,000
Dave Bing, Detroit
for the KEC Development Building Fund in the Medical School.............................. 10,000
Barry S. Blattman, Armonk, New York
for the Organizational Studies Program Director's Strategic Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................  10,000
Steven H. Bloom, Armonk, New York
430 shares of Koninklijke Philips Electronics NV common stock
for support in  the School of Public Health................................................  12,483
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Business Administration and for the University Library............... 10,942
Joseph A. Boshart, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Geraldine L. Boshart Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 10,000
BP Corporation of North America, Inc., Warrenville, Illinois
for support in  the College of Engineering.................................................  12,000
Barbara M. Brandenburg, Dearborn
for the Center for Heritage Landscaping at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................. 10,000
Ruth A. Brogan Estate
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................  10,000
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann Arbor
700 shares of Neogen Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, for Nichols Arboretum, and for the Clements Library.......... 19,591
John and Helen Burch Estate
for scholarships in  the M edical School................................................  1,025,000
Richard M. Burridge, Hinsdale, Illinois
300 shares of Carmax, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................  10,065
C.E. and S. Foundation, Inc., Louisville, Kentucky
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................  20,000
Alfred J. Capoferi Trust
300 shares of Wells Fargo & Company common stock
for the Alfred and Mary Ann Capoferi Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Alfred J. and Mary Ann Capoferi Endowed Scholarship in the Department of Athletics......... 17,217
Laurie K. Carr, Ann Arbor
for the Lloyd H. Carr Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..........................................  50,100
Louis F. Centofanti, Atlanta, Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia
10,000 shares of Perma-Fix Environmental Services common stock
for the Robert WN. Parry Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 34,300
David L. Chambers III and John Crane, White River Junction, Vermont
330 shares of various corporate common stock
for the M useum   of Art Building  Project..................................................  19,655
Joseph J. Chanda, Indialantic, Florida
for dermatology  support in the M edical School............................................  10,000
Wai-Tsin Chang Trust
for the Chang  Fund in the College of Engineering.......................................... 50,000
Myron M. Cherry, Lincolnwood, Illinois
for the Services for Students with Disabilities Fund at the University of Michigan................ 10,000
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................  25,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship in the School of Business Administration.......... 11,400
Cold Heading Foundation, Warren
for the Academic Success Center in the Department of Athletics............................. 250,000
174




January Meeting, 2004


Mary Sue and Kenneth M. Coleman, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Fellowship in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Life Sciences Fund,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Undergraduate Scholarship,
the Leslie Kish Fund, and other support in the Institute for Social Research,
for the Fitzbutler Jones Society Scholarship in the Medical School,
for Trotter House, and
for the Museum  of Art Building Project.................................................. 44,500
Committee to Protect Journalists, Inc., New York, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program Knight Freedom Fellowship Fund.................. 62,500
Garvie T. Craw, Little Silver, New Jersey
for the Athletic Director's Discretionary Fund in the Department of Athletics..................... 10,000
Gayle C. Crick, Indianapolis, Indiana
385 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for the William T. and Norma J. Crick Scholarship Fund and
other support in the College of Pharmacy................................................ 28,030
Dennis A. Dahlmann, Ann Arbor
232 shares of Bank of America Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Dahlmann Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics,
for the P. Gregory Peck Memorial Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy, and
for the Exhibit Museum of Natural History............................................. 18,122
Ivah L. DaLee Estate
for the Ivah L. DaLee Scholarship in the College of Engineering.............................. 125,000
Raymond F. Decker, Ann Arbor
for the Class of 1952E Scholarship and the James W. Freeman Memorial Scholarship in
the College of Engineering......................................................... 11,000
John Deere Foundation, Moline
for support in the College of Engineering................................................ 35,000
Delphi Automotive Systems, Phoenix, Arizona
for scholarships in the College of Engineering............................................. 15,000
Roger and Jean DeMeritt Trust
450 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for support in the College of Engineering...............................................  16,296
Joann Diebolt Trust
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................................... 100,00
Andrew S. Doctoroff and Mark Doctoroff, Detroit
for the Martin and Allene Doctoroff Memorial Fund in the Law School........................ 20,000
Donia-Ritter Family Trust
1,000 shares of Merrill Lynch common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 55,690
Carolyn L. Donigan Private Foundation, Wilmington, Delaware
for the Frank A. Lamberson Distinguished Lectureship in Otorhinolaryngology in
the Medical School..........................................................15,000
Doshay Family Trust
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for support in the School of Business Administration...................................... 36,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering and
the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment................. 508,000
William D. Drake Estate
for the Nanette R. LaCross Memorial Prize Fund and other support in the Nichols Arboretum........ 26,675
Du Mouchelles Art Galleries Company, Detroit
for the Art Museum Project Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................ 14,583
Margaret T. Duesenberry, Cambridge, Massachusetts
for the James and Margaret Duesenberry Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Department of Economics in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................  20,000
E. I. DuPont DeNemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support in the College of Engineering............................................ 10,000
Dyson Foundation, Millbrook, New York
for the Student Publication Building Renovation Fund................................... 20,000
Edison Investment Advisors, LLC., Livingston, New Jersey
for the Student Publication Building Renovation Fund.................................. 20,000
Kenneth A. Eisenberg, Bloomfield Hills
for the Kenneth A. Eisenberg Football Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics............ 60,000
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Elkes Fund for Faculty Excellence in the Law School............................. 250,000


175




January Meeting, 2004


Epker-Percival Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration......................................... 25,000
Frederick A. Erb, Birmingham
34,250 shares of Independent Bank Corporation/MI common stock
for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb Endowment Funds in
the School of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment................ 1,001,299
Douglas and Judith Etkin Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................. 25,000
Paul E. Ewing, Franklin
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................ 10,000
Excelda Manufacturing, Brighton
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................ 10,000
Exxon Mobil Corporation, Irving, Texas
for the Undergraduate Ocean Engineering Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 15,000
Suzanne L. Feetham, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Suzanne Bellinger Feetham Professorship in the School of Nursing....................... 58,000
Douglas & Shelley Felt Family Foundation, Ltd., Ogden, Utah
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................... 10,000
Yuanli Feng, Northville
for research in the Quality Research Center at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 10,000
Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................. 50,000
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for the Robert B. Fiske Jr., Fellowship in the Law School................................... 250,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research and
for other support at the University of Michigan........................................ 325,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the Department of Athletics................................................ 35,380
Ford Research and Advanced Engineering, Dearborn
for the Mechanical Engineering Department at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 30,000
Ilene H. Forsyth, Ann Arbor
294 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens,
for the Center for the Education of Women, and
for the W.K. Kellogg Eye Center.................................................... 10,202
Stanley Frankel, Troy
for the S. Shetzer Endowed Chair in Jewish American Studies in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 150,000
Fuss Foundation, Boca Grande, Florida
for support in the College of Engineering.............................................. 42,601
Beryl T. Galaway Estate
for the Alumni Society Scholarship Fund in the School of Information......................... 100,000
Michael R. Gelband, Short Hills, New Jersey
for support in the School of Business Administration..................................... 30,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
the College of Engineering, and the School of Business Administration......................... 280,200
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for facilities support in the College of Engineering..................................... 2,000,000
Globe Foundation, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 75,000
Goerlich Family Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for research in the Medical School................................................. 14,000
John J. Gordon, Bloomington, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics......................................... 10,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender and
for research in the School of Education.............................................. 176,626
Greek Orthodox Ladies Philoptochos Society, Inc., New York, New York
for Mott RT Trails Edge Camp....................................................... 25,000
John J. Guettler Trust
for the John J. and Emily S. Guettler Student Aid Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 950,000
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for WUOM....................................................................  25,000
Craig Gurian, Brooklyn, New York
for the Arthur Fondiler Dissertation Award Fund in US History in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................... 10,000
176




January Meeting 2004


Betty G. Haas, Atlanta, Georgia
561 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for the Geismer-Haas-Reinach Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................. 25,545
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
for the William and Lois Halliday Scholarship in the Law School and
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer C e n te r........................................... 10,050
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 211,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Center of Excellence in Geriatrics in the Medical School and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...........................................................  60,000
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
300 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for the Cecil J. Nesbitt Actuarial Education Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................  19,667
Lee H. Hess, Columbus, Ohio
for support in  the  School of Information..................................................  10,000
Jeffrey K. Hoffman, Dayton, Ohio
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School........................ 20,000
Jon R. Holt, Minnetrista, Minnesota
for the Jon R. and Beverly S. Holt Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering and
for support in  the Department of Athletics...............................................  151,000
C.WN. Howell Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 350,000
James B. Hudak, Orinda, California
5,000 shares of UnitedHealth Group, Inc., common stock
for the Ford Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy...................... 268,050
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in  the  M edical School......................................................  148,574
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for the Program  in Pediatric Dentistry in the School of Dentistry............................. 156,183
Ralph L. Hutchings, Beverly Hills, California
2,825 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics..................... 101,639
Frances B. Imoberstag Foundation, Dearborn
for the Center for Heritage Landscaping at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................. 20,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research  in  the College  of Engineering................................................  12,000
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., Harrison, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellowv Program, Bertram J. Askwith Price Fund................... 300,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 15,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Tauber Manufacturing institute in the College of Engineering and
the  School of Business Administration...................................................  30,000
Verne G. & Judith A. Istock Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Verne G. Istock Scholarship Fund and other support in the School of Business Administration,
for the Donald F. and Arleen G. Warnke Scholarship Fund and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for support in the Schools of Education and Music and the Department of Athletics............... 55,000
Sy Jacobs, New York, New York
12,800 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Henry and Gloria Jacobs Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts........................................... 350,537
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
14,285 shares of Perrigo Company common stock
for the Michael and Susan Jandernoa Life Sciences Initiative Fund and
the UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in the School of Business Administration and
for scholarships in  the Department of Athletics...........................................  221,518
Jagdish C. Janveja, Ann Arbor
for the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department of Athletics............................. 20,000
Anita H. Jenkins, Midland
for the James R. and Anita H. Jenkins Endowed Fund in the Law School....................... 100,000
William R. Jentes, Chicago, Illinois
1,638 shares of Lowe's Companies, Inc., common stock
for the William  R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law  School................................ 90,033


177




January Meeting 2004


Jentes Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William  R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law  School................................. 70,000
Janet Jentes Revocable Trust
for the William  R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law  School................................. 58,593
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Conrad and Caroline Fund in the Medical Sc hool.................................... 210,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in
the School of Business Administration,
for the Johnson Controls Fund in the University Hospitals, and
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................... 50,000
Lloyd & Mabel Johnson Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................  15,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and
in  the  Institute  for Social Research...................................................  2,136,263
Carlisle Jones, New York, New York
for the Harry H. Jones Endowment Fund in the School of Business Administration................ 10,000
JP Morgan Chase & Company, New York, New York
for the MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the School of Business Administration.................... 25,000
JSI, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Building Fund in the School of Public Health........................................ 25,000
Richard Katcher, Cleveland, Ohio
850 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Katcher Charitable Remainder Unitrust Funds for the ultimate benefit of
the Law School, and the Department of Athletics,
for the Richard and Shirley R. Katcher Family Scholarship in the Law School,
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for scholarships in  the Department of Athletics............................................  31,593
Alan J. Kaufman, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Graduate Student Aid Fund in
the College  of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................. 15,000
Kaydon, Ann Arbor
for the University  M usical Society......................................................  25,000
Joseph P. & Nancy F. Keithley Foundation, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for the Joseph P. & Nancy F. Keithley Foundation Endowment Fund in
the  School of Business Administration...................................................  25,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender and for WUOM................... 15,200
G. Peter Kelly, Marquette
for the Sigurd P. Ramfjord Endowed Visiting Lectureship and
the U. P. Dental Society Endowed Student Scholarship in the School of Dentistry................ 10,000
Marvin E. Kirchoff, Port Huron
for the Marvin and Elizabeth Kirchoff Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  College  of Engineering............................................................  10,000
Laurence J. Kirshbaum, New York, New York
for the Visiting Writers Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 60,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in  the University  Hospitals...................................................  31,772
Jerry Kolins, La Jolla, California
600 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for the Jessica R. Kolins Creative Writing Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................  28,035
Michael E. Korybalski, Ann Arbor
for the Michael E. Korybalski Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering.................. 100,000
Dimitri Kosacheff, New Boston
for the Kosacheff Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan............................. 30,000
Jon H. Kouba, San Francisco, California
for the Jon Henry Kouba Fund in the Law School and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 10,500
Adrian L. Kramer, Saint Clair Shores
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..........................................  20,000
Gloria A. Kramer, Saint Clair Shores
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..........................................  10,000
Otto F. Krauss and Jenny H. Krauss Charitable Foundation Trust
for the Otto F. and Jenny H. Krauss Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 10,000
John E. Laird, Ann Arbor
for the COE Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in the College of Engineering....... 10,000
178




January Meeting, 2004


Frederick D. Lamb Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Curt and Jamie Launer Family Foundation of the Franklin Templeton Charitable Giving Fund,
Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................10,000
Michael J. Levitt, Alpine, New Jersey
for the Levitt Family Scholarship in the School of Business Administration....................... 10,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program Livingston Award for Young Journalists............ 40,625
L. S. & Company, Palo Alto, California
for the John W. Reed Scholarship in the Law School....................................... 10,000
Joe Lunghamer Chevrolet, Inc., Pontiac
for the Joe Lunghamer Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 10,000
Joseph E. Lunghamer, Pontiac
for the Joe Lunghamer Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 10,000
Chalmers J. Lyons Academy of Oral Surgery, Port Huron
for the Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry............................ 15,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research.......................................... 200,000
Malloure Family Foundation, Beverly Hills
for support in the College of Engineering, and for WFUM-TV................................ 50,500
Manitoba Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 150,000
Oliver F. Manzini, Seminole, Florida
for support in the School of Dentistry and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 10,000
Mardigian Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Edward and Helen Mardigian Foundation Research Fund in the Medical School............ 150,000
R. Dean Martz, Spokane, Washington
for the Neurosurgery Professorship in the Medical School................................  50,000
Richard N. Maskell, Hampshire, Illinois
for the Richard and Odette Maskell Gift Fund in the School of Art and Design.................. 200,000
Olivia P. Maynard, Goodrich
1,550 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Olivia P. Maynard Endowed Professorship Fund in the School of Social Work............ 150,110
M. Mildred McIntosh, Boca Raton, Florida
439 shares of Walt Disney Company common stock
for the Mildred McIntosh Dance Scholarship Endowment in the School of Music................... 10,016
Clyde McKenzie Charitable Lead Annuity Trust
for the Clyde and Harriet McKenzie Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......... 10,000
Ronald D. McNeil & Regina C. McNeil Foundation, Lake Zurich, Illinois
for the Sanders M. Clark Endowed Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................. 30,000
Rogers McVaugh, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for the Rogers McVaugh Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Meijer Fellowship Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................... 50,000
Meister Family Trust Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Susan Meister Endowed Fund in Pediatrics in the Medical School and
for the Dean's Venture Capital Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 150,000
Marcia S. Mellinger, Napa, California
for the Marcia S. Mellinger Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of Medical School....... 10,000
Mette Foundation, Southfield
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship in the School of Dentistry and
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School................................. 125,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Portage
for the Monroe-Brown Funds in the Department of Athletics, the Medical School,
the School of Business Administration, the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and
the Museum of Art.......................................................       180,000
Vincent Moore, La Mesa, California
for the Blanche Anderson Moore Scholarship, the Earl V. Moore Scholarship, and
the Palmer Christian Memorial Fund in the School of Music................................... 20,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
2,000 shares of Tribune Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................... 99,380
Dorothy Mosimann Estate
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School.......................................... 22,817
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 25,000


179




January Meeting, 2004


Ruth Mott Foundation, Flint
for the Center for Applied Environmental Research at the University of Michigan-Flint............. 11,000
Edward W. Muransky, Poland, Ohio
for scholarships in  the  Department of Athletics.............................................  10,000
Richard B. Murdock, Charlotte
for the Richard and Jane Murdock Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Physical Therapy Program  at the University of Michigan-Flint.............................. 60,000
Irene M. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for support in  the School of Art and  Design................................................ 25,000
William D. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School....................................... 25,000
Sang Y. Nam, Ann Arbor
3,766 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Korean Collections in the Museum  of Art........................................... 101,221
Stuart C. Nathan, Chicago, Illinois
1,000 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for the Jo Ann and Stuart C. Nathan CEMP Student Support Fund in
the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment.................. 61,340
National Public Broadcasting, LLC., New York, New York
for WUOM.................................................................  14,443
Robert E. Nederlander, New York, New York
for the Nederlander Endowment Fund in the Law School and
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.............................................  35,000
Gregor N. Neff, New York, New York
for the Gregor N. Neff Scholarship Fund in the Law School............................... 15,000
Sarah W. Newman, Ann Arbor
for the Sarah Winans Newman Scholarship in the Center for the Education of Women.............. 10,000
Henry L. Newnan, Jr. Trust
for the Henry L. Newnan, Jr., Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 100,000
Richard M. Noel, Champaign, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................  10,000
Ronald and Joan Nordgren Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Ronald P. and Joan M. Nordgren Endowed Funds in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Medical School................................ 10,000
Northwestern Mutual Life Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for em ployee  m atching  gifts............................................................  10,025
Nuskin Force for Good, Provo, Utah
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.........................................  22,250
Richard D. O'Connor, Bloomfield Hills
for the Richard and Katherine O'Connor Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........ 50,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Law School...................................................... 10,000
David and Lucille Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for the David and Lucille Packard Fellowship and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................  125,000
Donald A. Pallin, Harshaw, Wisconsin
4,100 shares of Delta & Pine Land Company common stock
for the Donald and Nancy Pallin Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Pallin Fellowship in School of Natural Resources and Environment......................... 102,070
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for support in  the M edical School.......................................................  100,000
Ara G. Paul, Ann Arbor
390 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Ara G. and Shirley W. Paul Scholarship and other support in the College of Pharmacy,
for the Beverly J. Waterman Endowed Scholarship for Hearing Impaired Students in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for support of M en's LaCrosse..........................................................  29,487
Steven W. Percy, Akron, Ohio
for the McGraw Foundation Fellowships Matching Fund in
the School of Business Administration and
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.....................................................26,500
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Pfizer Fellowship in Pharmaceutics in the College of Pharmacy.......................... 20,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Medical School and the University Hospitals............................11,500
Elinor Plimack, New York, New York
414 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Elinor Plimack Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the University Library...... 10,451


180




January Meeting 2004


Harold A. and Marian L. Poling Charitable Contribution Fund of the Goldman Sachs Philanthropy Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................. 200,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics................. 149,000
L. Norris Post, Creedmoor, North Carolina
for the L. Norris and Helen Post Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Julie Norris Post Healthdale Collection Endowment at the Nichols Arboretum................ 10,000
Richard L. Prager, Ann Arbor
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School......................... 10,000
Ward L. Quaal, Northfield, Illinois
for the Academic Success Center in the Department of Athletics.............................. 20,000
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for the Yvonne S. Quinn and Ronald S. Rolfe Scholarship Fund in the Law School and
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................. 26,000
Rachor Family Foundation, Flint
for the Richard Gilder Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Flint........................................  12,000
Ravitz Foundation, Southfield
for support in the Department of Kinesiology,
for the Ravitz Foundation Endowment Fund in the School of Dentistry,
for research in the School of Public Health, and
for the Ravitz Foundation Professorship in Pediatric Communicable Diseases in
the  M edical  School.................................................................  350,000
James & Bonnie Reece Charitable Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Jim and Bonnie Reece Men's Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Business Administration and
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and
for the University  M usical Society......................................................  28,500
Shyroze Rehemtulla, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................  10,000
William B. Richards, New Albany, Ohio
100 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Margaret I. and G. William Richards Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering.... 10,000
Larry J. Robson, Grand Rapids
2,232 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Larry and Sally Robson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  Cardiovascular Center............................................................  100,000
Ronald S. Rolfe, New York, New York
for the Yvonne S. Quinn and Ronald S. Rolfe Scholarship Fund in the Law School................ 25,000
Michael Roth, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Cigna Corporation common stock
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School.............................. 27,663
Muriel Rumsey Foundation, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for student aid  in  the M edical School....................................................  20,000
Alma Ruppenthal, Troy
2,311 units of Templeton World Fund mutual fund
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School......................... 36,079
Torsti P. Salo, Marysville, Tennessee
bonds and a cash gift for
the Torsti P. and Evelyn W. Salo Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Horace H. Rackham  School of Graduate Studies........................................  50,684
Stephen W. Sanger, Wayzata, Minnesota
1,125 shares of General Mills, Inc., common stock
for the Academic Success Center in the Department of Athletics..............................  51,525
H.W. Schiller Family Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................  10,000
Albert G. & Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for the Albert G. Schlink Endowment Fund in the Institute of Gerontology...................... 10,000
Madeleine T. Schneider, Ann Arbor
for the R.C. Schneider Neurosurgical Fund in the Medical School.............................  10,000
Peter A. Schweitzer, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Schweitzer Collegiate Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 100,000
John T. Scovill, Chestertown, Maryland
for the John T. Scovill Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the University of Michigan in memory of Susan  Scovill.....................................  20,000
Harold T. Shapiro, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Harold T. and Vivian B. Shapiro Prize Fund in the School of Social Work and
for support in  the  Shapiro  Library.......................................................  10,000
181




January Meeting, 2004


Benson P. & Norma L. Shapiro Fund of the Fleet Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Norma L. Shapiro Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
Evan Shapiro Memorial Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Evan Shapiro Fund in the Medical School.......................................... 10,000
Chingju Wang Sheu, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the College of Pharmacy............................................... 41,000
Smart Family Foundation, Wilton, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 50,000
Philip L. Smith, Edwards, Colorado
for support in the School of Business Administration...................................... 15,000
Randall M. Smith, Farmington Hills
225 shares of DaimlerChrysler AG common stock
for Camp Michigania................................................................ 10,277
Susan M. Smith, Ann Arbor
886 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Susan Meredith Smith Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
for support in the School of Public Health, and
for the Waterman Endowed Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan...................... 26,056
Charles L. Smith Trust
482 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for the KEC Building Fund Development Fund and other support in the Medical School and
for the College of Pharmacy.................................................... 28,045
Richard B. Sneed Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Law School.................................................... 10,000
Jonathan K. Sobel, San Francisco, California
for support in the Law School......................................................... 50,000
Jerold S. Solovy, Chicago, Illinois
for the Jerold and Kathleen Solovy Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,000
Robert E. Spatt, New York, New York
for support in the Law School.................................................... 11,200
Haley Sperling Memorial Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Haley H. Sperling Memorial Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................... 15,000
Martin A. Spritzer, Pittsboro, North Carolina
438 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Martin and Lola Spritzer Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 15,175
Elmer and Sylvia Sramek Charitable Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 78,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Irvin Stern Foundation Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 25,000
Jeffrey & Susan Stern Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the Jeffrey and Susan Kahn Stem Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 12,500
Gloria M. Strutz Estate
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 59,593
Sandra L. Sully, Cary, North Carolina
for support in the School of Business Administration..................................... 15,000
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Palo Alto, California
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 25,000
Alan J. Taetle, Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 10,000
Tancer Family Trust
for the Robert and Shoshana Tancer Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Robert S. and Shoshana B. Tancer Endowment in International Law in the Law School.......... 50,000
Tapestry Foundation of Mary Carmel and Thomas P. Borders, Austin, Texas
for the Mary C. and Thomas P. Borders Women's Basketball Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics............................................................. 10,000
Target Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for career planning and placement support............................................. 10,000
Tetlak Foundation, Bratenahl, Ohio
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 10,000
Lynda R. Thomas, Grosse Pointe
for the Charles M. Thomas Endowed Research Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........... 10,100
Robert F. Thomson, Spring Park, Minnesota
for chemical engineering support in the College of Engineering............................... 10,000
Noel M. Tichy, Ann Arbor
for the Global Corporate Citizenship Fund in the School of Business Administration............... 61,250


182




January Meeting 2004


Frederick C. Tinsey III, Troy
for the Fred and Diane Tinsey Endowed Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics and
for the Paton Accounting Center in the School of Business Administration....................... 20,250
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Tisch Endowment for the Dean in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 600,000
Preston R. Tisch #2 Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the P. Robert Tisch Tennis Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics....................... 150,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...........................................................  10,000
Toyota Motor Sales, U. S. A., Inc., Torrance, California
for the Toyota MBA Fellowship Fund in the School of Business Administration.................. 10,000
Roger N. Turner, Jr., Hickory Corner
425 shares of Kellogg Company common stock and a cash gift
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for support in  the College of Engineering.................................................  15,451 
United Pediatric Society, Ann Arbor
for the Dean's Scholarship  Fund in the Medical School.......................................  10,000
University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit, Ypsilanti
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit Scholarship............................. 12,400
University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Washington, DC
for the University of Michigan Club of Washington, DC, Scholarship and
for support in  the College of Engineering.................................................  10,100
Donia Vakuf Foundation, La Jolla, California
for the Southeast European Studies Endowment Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................  44,740
Doug T. and Laurie J. Valassis Charitable Lead Trust
for the George F. Valassis Endowed Scholarship in the School of Business Administration......... 25,000
George F. Valassis Charitable Lead Trust
for the Valassis Professorship of Urologic Oncology and
the Urologic Oncology Research Fund in the Medical School................................ 250,000
Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida, M.D. Memorial Medical Scholarship in the Medical School............ 25,000
Visteon, Livonia
for support in  the College of Engineering.................................................  10,000
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Division of Kinesiology, the School of Education,
and  the  M edical School................................................................  10,000
Glenn W. WTarner, Dana Point, California
for the Glenn Warner Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  D epartm ent of Athletics...........................................................  40,000
William E. Watch, Troy
for the Real Estate Initiative Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture  and  Urban  Planning........................................................  15,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the CSS Core Endowment Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment......... 100,000
Walter H. Weiner Philanthropic Fund of the Anti-Defamation League Foundation, New York, New York
for the Law  School Building Fund in the Law  School.......................................  20,000
Patricia A. Werderitsch, Saline
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................  10,000
David Westin, New York, New York
for support in  the  Law   School..........................................................  10,000
Kenneth Whipple, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
770 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock
for support in  the University  Hospitals...................................................  10,303
B. Joseph White, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration and the Life Sciences Institute and
for the University  M usical Society......................................................  10,000
Donald and Susie White CRUT
for the Donald F. White Fellowship in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture  and  Urban  Planning......................................................  199,293
Joseph D. Williamson II, Naples, Florida
for the UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in the School of Business Administration.............. 10,000
Joan D. Willson Trust
for the J. Robert Willson Professorship in Obstetrics in the Medical School...................... 15,000
Melba Winer Living Trust
300 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Sidney J. Winer Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Mardigian Library at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................. 10,450


183




January Meeting, 2004


Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............................................. 10,000
Richard A. Yarmain, Ann Arbor
for the Richard Yarmain Ice Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics.............. 25,000
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Law Scholarship in the Law School....................................... 50,000
William A. and Shirley P. Yolles Support Foundation of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the William A. and Shirley P. Yolles Graduate Fund in
the Horace H. Rackhamn School of Graduate Studies........................................ 10,000
Zatkoff Family Foundation, Farmington Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics,
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit Scholarship, and
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Alumni Society Legacy Scholarship................... 13,563
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
for support in the Law School............................................................ 10,000
Zeimet-Wozniak & Associates, Inc., Southfield
for the Gary Peterson Memorial. Fund in Civil Engineering in the College of Engineering.......... 10,000
Lonny E. Zietz, Ada
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry............................. 10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Barr Brothers Partnership, Southfield
a violin with a hard case and two bows for the School of Music
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
a large collection of historically important manuscript letters and documents for the Clements Library
Elizabeth O. Parsons, Fairfax, Virginia
a large collection historically important Civil War era women's diaries for the Clements Library
David F. Upton, St. Joseph
two rare and important maps of America for the Clements Library
David B. Walters, Farmington Hills
a letter written by George Washington dated 1793 for the Clements Library


Additional gifts ranging from        $5,000   to
following donors:
William J. Abraham, Jr., Mequon, Wisconsin
Vivek Agamrwal, San Jose, California
Alden Foundation, New York, New York
Richard J. Alder, Jr., Westland
Paul M. Allen, Des Peres, Montana
American Association of University Women, Ann Arbor
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc.,
New York, New York
Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
Anonymous Donor
Russell L. Anmuth, New York, New York
Eric Asmundsson, New York, New York
Colleen Barney, Irvine, California
Doris E. Bassett, Mill Valley, California
Mark Becker, Chelsea
James A. Bellamy, Ann Arbor
Joel I. Bennett, La Canada, California
Terry J. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
Claire Bernstein Trust, Ann Arbor
Philip C. Berry Account of the Berry Foundation,
Moreland Hills, Ohio
Bixby Foundation, Dearborn
John P. Bolthouse, Grandville
David A. Brandon Foundation, Ann Arbor
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
Cairn Foundation, Ann Arbor
David J. Campbell, Nev York, Nev York
Joseph L. Campbell, Zionsville, Indiana
David M. Cassard, Grand Rapids
Robert C. Chambers II, West Bloomfield
Cheryl Shy Chapekis, Dublin, Ohio
Chisbetts Foundation, Ann. Arbor
Richard Christie, Wayne, New Jersey
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group of Ann Arbor,
Ann Arbor


$9,999   in value were received        from   the
Alice S. Corey, Altadena, California
William J. Costello, East Lansing
William J. Cowlin, Crystal Lake, Illinois
Clan Crawford, Jr., Ann Arbor
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Palm Desert, California
William T. Darnton, Winnetka, Illinois
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
Irwin F. Deister, Jr., Fort Wayne, Indiana
Delta Dental Fund, Okemos
Roberta DeMott-Friberg, Ann Arbor
David A. DeMuro, New York, New York
Robert W. Denner Living Trust, Grosse Pointe Park
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc.,
West Bloomfield
Timothy L. Dickinson, Washington, DC
Carolyn C. Dilworth., Huntington, New York
Raymond H. Dresser, Jr., Sturgis
Todd M. DuChene Revocable Trust
Jill L. Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
N. Reed Dunnick, Ann. Arbor
Fairfield Construction, Battle Creek
Jerome D. Farmer II, Ann Arbor
F. B. & V. V. Fehsenfeld Charitable Foundation,
Seattle, Washington
Oscar H. and Barbara Feldman Trust
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
Henry E. Fuldner, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Charles E. Furr, Kailua, Hawaii
Garbose Family Foundation, Gwynedd Valley,
Pennsylvania
Erminie C. Gartley, Kaneohe, Hawaii
David M. Gates, Ann Arbor
John W. Geissman, Albuquerque, New Mexico
Beverly Geltner, Ann Arbor




January Meeting, 2004


Harry C. Gibson, Kalispell, Montana
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
Robert D. Glauz, Davis, California
James T. Glerum, Grand Rapids
Edward A. Grossman, Cresskill, New Jersey
Linda B. Halsey, TTEE, East Lansing
Harlan Foundation, Williamsburg
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P.L.C., Troy
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
Helen M. Harrison Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
Georgia C. Haugh Trust
Thomas J. Haverbush, Alma
H-ayden-McNeil Publishing, Inc., Plymouth
Steven G. Henry, Houston, Texas
Dudley K. Holmes, Jr., Chelsea
Homeland Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
Curtis E. Huntington, Boston, Massachusetts
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
Marjorie M. Jackson Revocable Trust
Jerome Jacobson, Washington, DC
Janssen, New Brunswick, New Jersey
Douglas I. Kalish, Palo Alto, California
Elizabeth W. Kaufman, Ann Arbor
Charles S. Kennedy III, Grosse Pointe
Robert J. Kheel, New York, New York
Miles S. King, Boulder, Colorado
Barbara M. Kitzner, Grosse Ile
Arthur Kochoff, Dearborn Heights
William A. Lankford, Germantown, Tennessee
Terry S. Latanich, Franklin Lakes, New Jersey
Sue R. Lehmann, New York, New York
John B. Leppiaho, Belleair, Florida
James W. Lintott and May Liang Foundation,
Great Falls, Virginia
Little Family Foundation, Boston, Massachusetts
Mrs. Pearson M. Macek, Ann Arbor
Monroe D. Macpherson, Moneta, Virginia
A.H. Magnus, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
Edward L. Maier, Sr., Punta Gorda, Florida
Joseph R. Malloure, Northville
Manpower, Incorporated of Southeastern Michigan,
Ann Arbor
Bill and Florine Mark-Ross Fund for A.L.S. Research of
the Community Foundation for Southeastern
Michigan, Detroit
MASCO Corporation Foundation, Taylor
Christine Matoian, Bloomfield Hills
Gerald E. Matthews, Ada
Martha E. McClatchey, Ann Arbor
Mark A. McDowell, Mullica Hills, New" Jersey
Michigan Primary Care Association, Okemos
Bruce H. Miller, Detroit
James E. Montie, Ann Arbor
Arnold P. Morawa, Ann Arbor
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
William T. Muir, Franklin, Tennessee
Ruediger Naumann Foundation, San Francisco,
California
Brendan T. Nedzi, Montclair, New Jersey
Virginia Stewart Nicklas, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Henry E. Niles Foundation, Inc., Greenwich,
Connecticut
Maria B. Olesen, La Jolla, California
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California


Roger P. Pascal, Evanston, Illinois
Jacque H. Passino, Jr., Houston, Texas
Robert D. Paul, New York, New York
Shirley W. Paul, Ann Arbor
Louis Perlmutter, New York, New York
Karen and Drew Peslar Foundation, Birmingham
Sidney L. Pilson, Nashville, Tennessee
Barbara L. Piper Trust
Judith A. Pitney, Ann Arbor
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
John Psarouthakis, Ann Arbor
Kimberly A. Purvis, New York, New York
Susan E. Quackenbush, Ann Arbor
Riverfront Apartments, Chicago, Illinois
Riverview Firefighter Association, Riverview
Janice L.. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
Sterling L. Ross, Jr., Mill Valley, California
Mary Lynne Ruddon, Skillman, New Jersey
Ghassan & Manal Saab Foundation, Flint
Frederick E. Schmid, Dexter
Thomas C. Scott, Evanston, Illinois
Paul F. Sefcovic, Columbus, Ohio
Mark K. Setter, Port Huron
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
Chester P. Shelly, Naples, Florida
Thomas C. Shumaker, Grosse Pointe
Leonard G. Siegal, Farmington Hills
Charles J. Silverman, New York, New York
Patricia Simms, Toledo, Ohio
Norman M. Spindelman, Rochester, New York
Mark H. Springer, Westlake Village, California
David M. Stahl, Chicago, Illinois
Robert Stiber, Vail, Colorado
Stanley S. Stroup, San Francisco, California
Alan and Gail Sugar Philanthropic Fund, Ann Arbor
Susan E. Sund, Pasadena, California
TAP Pharmaceutical Products, Inc., Lake Forest, Illinois
FBO TenBroeck Irrevocable Trust
Charles E. Thomas, Jr., Lemoyne, Pennsylvania
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
Leo W. Tobin III, Arlington, Virginia
John A. Tompkins, Jr., Sausalito, California
Charles J. Trick, Ann Arbor
Barbara Kahn Tronstein, Bloomfield Hills
UCCA, Inc., North Miami Beach, Florida
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
University of Michigan Band Alumni Association, Ann
Arbor
James S. VanPelt, Winnetka, Illinois
Steven P. Varilone, Milford
Susan Vitale, Chesterfield
Edward H. Wahtera, Breckenridge, Colorado
Frederick T. Waldeck, Los Angeles, California
Marcus B. Waller, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
Nancy Williams Walls, Ann Arbor
L.P. Wasserman Family Foundation, Scarsdale,
New York
Barrett S. Wayburn, West Bloomfield
Jeffrey E. Weintraub, Rockville, Maryland
Henry E. and Consuelo S. Wenger Foundation, Inc.,
Pound Ridge, New York
Carl D. Winberg, Pasadena, California
E. Lisk Wyckoff, Jr., New York, New York
Joseph C. Zengerle III, Bethesda, Maryland


Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
He called attention to the recommendation for the reappointment of Rebecca Blank as
dean of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.
185




January Meeting, 2004


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on Jaunary 1, 2004
Michailidis, George, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on January 15, 2004
Birkmeyer, Nancy J. O'Connor, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, Medical School
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Ejfective August 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Blank, Rebecca M., Dean, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
Gordon, Timothy J., Research Professor, University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute, also
appointed Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointment to Named Professorship
Sawhney, Harmeet S., Constance F. and Arnold C. Pohs Visiting Associate Professor of
Telecommunications, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2004
Appointment to Endowed Pro essorship
Viaene, Jean-Marie A. R. G., The Netherlands Visiting Professor of Economics, College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Other Transactions
Associate Dean, UM-Flint School of Management, position established, January 1, 2004
King, John L., term extended, Dean, School of Information, January 1-June 30, 2005
Rogers, Bryan L., term extended, Dean, School of Art and Design, January 1-June 30, 2005
Wixson, Karen K., Dean, term extended, School of Education, January 1, 2005-June 30, 2005
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cornish, Anthony P., B.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Diamante, Maximiliano, D.D.S., Clinical Lecturer in Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of
Dentistry, October 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Ehrlich, Peter F., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
December 1, 2003-November 30, 2005
Gorman, Susan F., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Kocheril, Sosa, M.B.B.S., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
November 10, 2003-November 9, 2006


186




January Meeting, 2004


Price, Matthew D., M.F.A., Lecturer I in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Tait, Priscilla R., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, November 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Benson, Mark R., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2005
Ro, Young K., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, January 1, 2004-April 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUSiA FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Oakley, Bruce, Professor Emeritus of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2003
Reed, John W., Thomas M. Cooley Professor Emeritus of Law and Professor Emeritus of Law, Law
School, January 1-April 30, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, David J., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, Medical School, retirement
furlough, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Deloria, Philip J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of American
Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Derksen, Hendrikus G., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Gomez, Luis O., Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology
and Religious Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Hoeffner, Ellen G., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, personal leave,
January 13-February 15, 2004
Israel, Kali A.K., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Kalisch, Beatrice J., Shirley C. Titus Professor of Nursing and Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School
of Nursing, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Ketefian, Shake, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 2004
Liu, Lydia, Helmut F. Stem Professor of Chinese Studies, Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures,
with tenure, and Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Carl W. Belser Collegiate Professor of Buddist and Tibetan Studies and Professor
of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Miles, Tiya A., Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies and Assistant Professor of
American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave,
November 10-December 31, 2003
Moore, Kristen S., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Teorey, Toby J., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Viswanath, Divakar, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003


187




January Meeting, 2004


Wallace, John M., Jr., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, scholarly
activity leave, January 1-December 31, 2004
Woehrle, Kathleen L., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Education
and Human Services, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2003
CANCELLATIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Anspach, Renee, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Women's
Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Genig, Martha E., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31, 2003
Graham, Malcolm D., Clinical Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, January 31, 2004
Johnson, Eileen S., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearbom School of Education, December 31,2003
Retired
Gardner, Gerald T., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, December 31, 2003
Stein, Elaine A., Lecturer in Chemistry, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
December 31, 2003
Term Completed
Alvarado, Rudolph V., Lecturer II in Latino Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2001
Baron, Daniel L., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2002
Baxter, Scott J., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2001
Carr, Gerald L., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2002
Contratto, Susan, Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2002
Curlew, Douglas J., Lecturer II in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2001
Davidson, Natalie S., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
de la Vega-Hurtado, Margarita, Lecturer II in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2002
Flackett, Jennifer A., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2000
Graff, David S., Lecturer II in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Hirshbein, Pereta, Lecturer II in History of Medicine, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2000
Holther, Jean R., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2001
Jain, Kusum, Lecturer II in Hindi, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2001
Klebaur, Jennifer E., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2001
Kowalski, Elizabeth A., Lecturer II in Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2002
Langdon, Gabrielle, Lecturer II in International Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2001
Lauri, Mary G., Lecturer II in Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2002
Leicher, Sheryl J., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2002
Levin, Mark, Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2000
Murakami, Chisato, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2003
Nelson, Max G., Lecturer II in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2001
Odish, Jaron G., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
April 30, 2003
Paglione, Timothy A., Lecturer II in Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001


188




January Meeting, 2004


Quay, Nancy J., Lecturer II in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Roberts, Donald A., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2002
Rochelle, Marion, Lecturer II in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2002
Stack, Steven J., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2003
Studer, Marlena M., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2003
Swaniker, Fresca C., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, December 31, 2003
Tapio, Wayne W., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2001
Tardy, Christine M., Lecturer II in English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 31, 2001
Taylor, Nikki M., Lecturer II in Center for Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2001
Wright, Jason M., Lecturer II in Fine Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2001
Zwiep, Mary N., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2000
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memoir for one
retiring faculty member.
Gerald T. Gardner, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 2003.
Professor Gardner received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1965, 1967, and 1970, respectively, and he was a postdoctoral fellow at
The   Rockefeller   University  from    1970-71.     He   joined  the   University  of
Michigan-Dearborn faculty as an assistant professor in 1971 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1974 and professor in 1982. He was a lecturer in environmental
studies on the Ann Arbor campus in 1978 and was a visiting fellow and visiting
research scholar at the Yale Institution for Social and Policy Studies from 1979-81.
A nationally-recognized expert in environmental psychology, Professor Gardner
has maintained a superb program of research and is widely published in human
behavior and public policy. Early in his career, he was a consultant to the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Washington, D.C., and served on the task
force for the Ocean Pollution Research Program. Professor Gardner has also conducted
reviews of publications for a number of organizations, publishing companies, and
professional journals.
Within the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Professor Gardner served on many
committees and chaired the Human Subject Review Committee for 18 years. His
teaching has been inspirational and his mentorship of students extraordinary. Professor
Gardner's retirement marks the departure of an esteemed member of the faculty of the
behavioral sciences department.
The Regents now salute this dedicated and accomplished teacher and scholar by
naming Gerald T. Gardner professor emeritus of psychology.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by
Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitment
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that the University had made a
commitment of $20.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Beacon Capital Strategic
Partners III, L.P., a follow-on real estate fund.
189




January Meeting, 2004


Appointment of Auditors for 2003-04
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as external auditors
for the 2003-04 fiscal year.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Science Building Addition Phase One of the
Science and Engineering Expansion and Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Slottow introduced Richard Green, CEO of Stubbins
Associates and architect of record for this project.
Mr. Stubbins displayed campus photos and a site map to indicate how the building
is situated on the campus. He reviewed floor plans for each floor of the building and
displayed renderings of the exterior.
It was noted that this building is funded as a State of Michigan capital outlay
project, with 75% of its cost coming from state funds and 25% from the University of
Michigan-Dearborn. Executive Vice President Slottow pointed out that the additions
for the science and engineering buildings were funded and approved prior to acquisition
of the Ford Training and Development Center, and the budgets for these buildings were
adjusted to provide funding for the Ford Training and Development Center. Chancellor
Little commented that operating costs for the two buildings have already been included
in budget planning.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan-Dearborn Science Building Addition
Phase One of the Science and Engineering Expansion and Renovation Project as
presented.
Intramural Sports Building
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Intramural Sports Building Second and Third Floor Fitness
Area Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:05 p.m. The next
meeting will be held February 19, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


190




Februrary Meeting, 2004


FEBRUARY MEETING, 2004
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 19, 2004
The Regents convened at 2:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, and
White. Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May,
Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Taylor was absent.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and announced that Public
Comments would be the next order of business.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people on the topics indicated.
The following five individuals spoke about Lecturers Employee Organization
negotiations: Saamir Rahman, student, representing Students Organizing for Labor and
Economic Equality; F. Kenneth Chaves, president, U of M Skilled Trades Union; Luis
Martin-Cabrera, student and member of Graduate Employees Organization; Ian Robinson,
co-chair of organizing committee, Lecturers Employee Organization; and Charles Bright,
faculty member. The other speakers were Mia White, student, representing Our Voices
Count, and David Boyle, alumnus, on proposed changes to the Sexual Assault Prevention
and Awareness Center (SAPAC); and Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown
relationship.
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman commented on noteworthy student, faculty, and staff
accomplishments and recognition during the past month.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning. They had an update on the University Press and on the
Life Sciences Institute and received a written report on M-Care. There also was
continuation of the ongoing discussion about the state budget process and its implications
for the development of the University's General Fund budget for FY 2005.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that as part
of the committee's responsibility to conduct an annual evaluation of President Coleman,
they spent time discussing with the president the process for review of the 2003-04
goals and assessing progress toward those goals.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.


191




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of January 15, 2004.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report,
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report
Litigatigon Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, January 1 - January 31, 2004.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Kelch called
attention to the recommendation for the appointment of Dr. David Fink as chair of the
Department of Neurology.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper noted that the Michigan
League is celebrating its 75th anniversary and the Michigan Union is celebrating its
100th anniversary, and she noted that the directors of each facility and the director of
University Unions were in attendance. Vice President Harper introduced Benjamin
Taylor Moerman, third-year student and chair of the Michigan Union Board of
Representatives, who gave a personal perspective on what the Michigan Union means
to him and a presentation on the history and significance of the Michigan Union and
Michigan League.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little called attention to a recent
collaboration between the University Musical Society and the School of Education on
the Dearborn Campus. He also described a collaboration with New Detroit that
involves a series of programs dealing with "conversations about race."
Regent McGowan commented that she and Regent Maynard had earlier
participated in bestowing the 2004 Sarah Goddard Power Awards, one of which was
awarded to Marilee Benore Parsons, associate professor of biology and biochemistry at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn, for her efforts in encouraging women and girls in
scientific pursuits.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas reported that the campus is in
the process of developing a strategic plan, which is an extremely important undertaking
given the current campus situation. He also called attention to an upcoming
performance by the UM-Flint Wind Symphony Orchestra of Aaron Copeland's
"Lincoln Portrait" and noted that he would be portraying Abraham Lincoln.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Ms. Monique Perry, vice-president of
Michigan Student Assembly, noted that she had participated in the recent "Diversity
Summit." She said that students would like to be informed about the results of the
executive session and urged administrators to make the minutes available and inform
students about the discussions that occurred.  Students are concerned about the
preliminary drop in enrollment numbers among minority applicants and about climate
issues identified at the summit. They would like feedback as to whether and how these
issues were addressed at the executive session.


192




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Regent McGowan thanked Ms. Perry for raising this concern and requested that
the feedback from the executive session be shared with the board and the broader
University community in a timely fashion.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May updated the Regents on the status of
campaign planning and implementation. He announced that the title of the campaign
will be "The Michigan Difference," and he gave examples that describe "the Michigan
difference." He also listed the five categories of support, or themes, that have been
identified for the campaign: 1) fulfill the promise of science and technology; 2) enrich
the student experience; 3) inspire a life of arts and culture; 4) advance health and
society's well-being; 5) prepare leaders for the local and global community. He
announced that the campaign kickoff is scheduled for May 13-14, 2004.
Accenture Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts............................................................ $48,600
Kedrick D. Adkins, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and the School of Business Administration and
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship, at the University of Michigan.......................... 11,000
Alcoa Corporate Center, New Kensington, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering................................................ 50,000
Susan J. Allen, Grand Rapids
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 45,616
Edwin D. Allmendinger Trust
for support at the University of Michigan................................................  72,683
Robert I. Alpern, Bloomfield Hills
4,000 shares of Commercial Federal Corporation common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Fund in the Medical School................................. 106,260
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics............................................... 100,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 50,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School................................................... 100,154
Anonymous Donor
for a charitable gift annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Museum of Art..................... 2,000,000
Anonymous Donor
3,060 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and in the Life Sciences Institute...... 133,982
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Department of Athletics................................................ 50,000
Anonymous Donor
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 10,000
Anonymous Family Foundation
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................ 90,000
Arbitron, Inc., Columbia, Maryland
for scholarships in the Institute for Social Research........................................ 24,000
A. R. M. Enterprises, Farmington Hills
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................. 10,000
Aronoff Foundation, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 20,000
Roy Ash, Los Angeles, California
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................... 10,000
ASN, Washington, D. C.
for research in the Medical School................................................... 50,000
Richard A. Auhll, Aspen, Colorado
for the Richard A. Auhll Professorship in the College of Engineering......................... 100,000
Auto Club Group, Dearborn
for support in the Transportation Research Institute...................................... 10,000
Menakka Bailey, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women and
for support for the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................................... 25,100


193




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Benedek Family Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Peter and Barbara Benedek Artist in Residence Fund and
the Barbara and Peter Benedek Dean's Merit Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................  37,500
Betty Z. Benedict, Westwood, New Jersey
for research  in  the M edical School.......................................................  10,000
Kenneth Bettsteller, Oak Park, California
for the K. and K. Bettsteller Endowment Study Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................  30,000
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for the Betz Family Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics and
for support in  the College of Engineering..................................................  52,000
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
for support in the Department of Kinesiology..............................................  50,000
Leland F. Blatt Family Foundation, Harper Woods
for the Blatt Family Fund in the Medical School..........................................  60,000
Bogaard Charitable Fund of the Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for the William J. and Claire W. Bogaard Fund in the Law School.............................. 60,000
Edward L. Bove, Ann Arbor
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School......................... 15,000
Robert S. Bradley, Cincinnati, Ohio
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.............................................  10,000
Hubert J. Brandt, Long Beach, New York
for the Frances and Hubert Brandt Israel Fellowship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................  20,000
Kathryn W. Brandt, Scarsdale, New York
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,250
Irene Bronner, Frankenmuth
for the Men's Glee Club Tour Endowment Fund in the School of Music......................... 10,000
Kenneth A. Buckfire, New York, New York
for the Trunsky/Buckfire Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Medical School...................... 25,000
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
785 shares of New Corp, Ltd., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Law School............................... 29,759
Clare B. Callahan, Northfield, Illinois
535 shares of PepsiCo, Inc., common stock
for the Clare and Michael Callahan Dean's Discretionary Fund in
the  School of Business Administration....................................................  24,878
Herman B. Cass Trust
for support in the Law School................................................... 256,990
ChevronTexaco, Concord, California
for support in the School of Business Administration and the Transportation Research Institute....... 21,600
Cleveland A. Christophe, Stamford, Connecticut
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................  10,000
Richard M. Cieri, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
William F. Close Trust
for support in  the M edical School........................................................  50,000
James F. Conrad, Nashville, Tennessee
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................. 20,000
Jane Wilson Coon Trust
for the William W. Coon, M.D. Fund in the Medical School............................... 10,000
Lewis Hugh Cooper, Ann Arbor
for the Hugh and Nan Cooper Scholarship and other scholarships in the School of Music............ 25,850
Carolyn L. Crosby, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Louis and Margaret Crosby Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan................ 15,000
Rebecca E. Crown, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Glenn M. Knudsvig Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
in memory of Dr. Glenn M. Knudsvig........................................... 10,000
Laura J. Currie, Midland
for the Gilbert Currie Endowment Fund and other support in the Department of Athletics.......... 15,100
DaimlerChrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn and
for employee matching gifts........................................................ 31,400
Marvin and Betty Danto Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Marvin and Betty Danto Expendable Research Fund in the Medical School................ 10,000
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
for support in the Transportation Research Institute and
for employee matching  gifts..........................................................  15,050
194




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering................................................... 94,800
D. H. R. Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................. 25,000
Doan Family Foundation, Midland
for the Ruth Dow Doan Endowed Professorship & Directorship in the Medical School.............. 14,750
Thelma Dollar Estate
for  support in  the  Law   School...........................................................  52,991
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
for the Ruth Dow Doan Endowed Professorship & Directorship in the Medical School............. 15,630
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...........................................................  23,405
Gayle E. Ellias, White Lake
for research  in  Comprehensive Cancer Center.............................................  10,000
Farrehi Family Foundation, Inc., Grand Blanc
for the Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in the Medical School............................ 12,000
Z. Jane and Cyrus Farrehi Trust
for the Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in the Medical School........................... 200,000
Janette Ferrantino, Ann Arbor
1,714 shares of Wells Fargo & Company common stock
for the Janette Ferrantino Investigator Fund in the Medical School............................  100,715
Flint Ink Corporation, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  50,000
Food Allergy Initiative, New York, New York
for support in  the  M edical School.......................................................  28,800
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts........................................... 192,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the University  of M ichigan-Dearborn.................................................  40,000
Maxine and Stuart Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support at University of Michigan-Dearborn and
for the Museum of Art, the University Musical Society, and WFUM........................... 13,200
Furth Family Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Frederick P. Furth, Sr. Professorship Endowment Fund in the Law School................ 100,000
Peter S. Fuss, Boca Grande, Florida
8,825 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in  the College of Engineering................................................  400,431
Ruth Galloway Trust
for research in the Medical School in memory of Joyce Fickes VanVoorhis...................... 77,094
E. James Gamble, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Schools of Music and Law,
for the University Library, and
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........................................  11,900
Arthur R. Gaudi, Santa Barbara, California
for support in the Law School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
General Dynamics Land Systems, Lima, Ohio
for the General Dynamics Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............. 30,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................  50,000
Gentex Corporation, Zeeland
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.........................................  15,000
Al Glick, Jackson
for support in  the Department of Athletics................................................  50,000
Grant K. Goodman Fund, Lawrence, Kansas
for the Grant K. Goodman Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
James F. Goodrich, Washington, D. C.
1,465 shares various corporate common stock
for the James F. Goodrich Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  College  of Engineering...........................................................  100,263
Goodrich Foundation, Inc., Cornwall, Connecticut
for support in  the University  Library....................................................  15,000
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Engineering and the Department of Athletics and
for other support at the University  of Michigan..........................................  1,000,000
John F. Greene, Silverthorne, Colorado
1,000 shares of Burlington Resources, Inc., common stock
195




Februrary Meeting, 2004


for the Graduate Fellowship Endowment Fund in Geological Sciences in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 55,615
William C. Greer, Livingston, New Jersey
for the Curtis W. Greer Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics...................... 10,000
Milton and Miriam Handler Foundation, New York, New York
for the Handler Foundation Research Fund in the Law School.............................. 20,000
Mark W. B. Harms, London, England
for the Mark Harms Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 20,000
William K. Hawes, Jr., Houston, Texas
for the William K. Hawes Family Scholarship Fund in the School of Music...................... 10,000
Hermelin Family Support Foundation of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment Fund in the University Library........... 13,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for support in the School of Public Health.............................................. 50,000
Holcim (US), Inc., Dundee
for the Holcim Professorship Funds in the Schools of Business Administration and
Natural Resources and Environment................................................... 500,000
Robert L. Hooker, Jupiter, Florida
for the Hooker, Cook, and DeVos Endowment Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.... 10,000
Timothy A. Howes, Los Altos, California
4,000 shares of Opsware, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering............................................. 24,380
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support in the Law School......................................................... 12,500
InfoGation Corporation, San Diego, California
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................... 10,000
Phyllis Berical Johnson Trust
for the Jeffrey Lee Johnson Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 25,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health..............................................  409,941
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
for the Schools of Natural Resources and Environment, and Social Work...................... 296,647
J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................ 10,875
Richard Katcher, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Department of Athletics, and the Law School, and for the University Library....... 13,925
Kaydon, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics............................................... 65,000
W. M. Keck Foundation, Los Angeles
for research in the College of Engineering and the School of Public Health...................... 750,000
Thomas Kelleher, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 10,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the School of Education,
for WUOM, and
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 331,000
Kirkland and Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Frauman Family Dean's Merit Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 30,650
Deborah L. Kirshman, Berkley, California
for the Kirshman Family Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Harry and Anna Korman Foundation, Boca Raton, Florida
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center in memory of Harry Korman and
in honor of Dr. David Wood.......................................... 10,000
Krupman Family Foundation, Inc., Purchase, New York
for the Jackson Lewis Fund in the Law School.......................................... 10,331
Ronald E. Larson, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the College of Engineering....................................... 10,000
Paul L. Lee, New York, New York
for support in the Law School.................................................. 10,000
Norman M. Leff Trust
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 1,503,463
Selig D. Lesnoy Estate
for the Selig D. Lesnoy Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan........................ 377,469
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................  11,250
196




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Lilly Clinical Research Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................... 100,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the Medical School,
the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering, and
the  School of Business Administration.................................................... 45,000
Jeffrey Liss, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Law School and the Life Sciences Institute and
for the Harold K. Jacobson Graduate Student Support Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................. 30,000
Diana M. Lopo, New York, New York
for  support in  the  Law   School...........................................................  10,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the SSEL Construction Fund in the College of Engineering.............................. 2,500,000
Kenneth S. Mack, Metamora
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business Administration................. 15,105
Sylvia Majkowski, Redford
400 shares of Anheuser-Busch Company, Inc., common stock
for the Ted Majkowski Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan.......................... 21,002
Clayton K. Mammel, Denver, Colorado
for the Clayton and Jeanne Mammel Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............ 50,000
Neil R. Mann, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................  50,000
March of Dimes Birth Defect Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Schools of Dentistry and Medicine....................................... 101,715
Richard B. Marsh Trust
for support in  the College of Engineering.................................................  10,000
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for W UOM  and for employee matching gifts..............................................  19,100
Natalie Matovinovic, Ann Arbor
for the Josip Matovinovic Endowed Clinical Medical Fellowship in the Medical School............ 10,000
Loretta Matthews Memorial Fund, Riverview
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..........................................  16,000
Olivia P. Maynard, Goodrich
20,100 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Olivia P. Maynard Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Olivia P. Maynard Professorship Fund in the School of Social Work...................... 1,998,744
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship and other support in
the  School of Business Administration...................................................  11,642
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
6,000 shares of Gillette Company common
stock  for support in  the M edical School.................................................  218,760
D. Stuart Meiklejohn, Grand Blanc
for the University  of M ichigan-Flint.....................................................  10,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research  in  the  School of Inform ation.................................................  71,000
Mentor Graphics Corporation, Wilsonville, Oregon
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  25,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support in  the College of Engineering.................................................  10,000
Minerva Education and Development Foundation, Detroit
for support in  the School of Social W ork.................................................  20,000
Ada M. Mitchell Estate
for support in  the College of Engineering................................................  500,000
John C. Morley, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
for the Matthew J. Jr., and Sarah Patterson Spence Fund in the College of Engineering............. 25,000
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the Clements Library and
for the M atthaei Botanical Gardens.....................................................  10,000
Multiple Sclerosis Foundation, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for support in  the  M edical School.......................................................  10,000
Mary C. Murphy, Calumet
for the Mary C. Murphy Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Percy J. Murphy, M. D. and Mary C. Murphy, R.N. Professorship of Pediatries in
the  M edical  School..................................................................  18,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................  17,177


197




Februrary Meeting, 2004


MZM Production, Inc., Miami Lakes, Florida
for the Jim and Bonnie Mandich Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics................ 10,000
Stuart C. Nathan, Chicago, Illinois
600 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for the JoAnn and Stuart C. Nathan CEMP Student Support Fund in
the Schools of Business Administration and Natural Resources and Environment................. 36,822
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................................  30,938
Homer A. Neal, Ann Arbor
for the Homer A. and Donna J. Neal Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan.............. 10,000
Robert D. Neary, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Funds in the School of Business Administration and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................... 90,000
Herbert E. Neil, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
for support in the School of Education and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 26,000
Nichia America Corporation, Mountville, Pennsylvania
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 15,000
John F. Nickoll Living Trust, Los Angeles, California
for support in the Law School.................................................... 10,000
Michael J. Novoson, Bal Harbour, Florida
for support in the Medical School and the University Hospitals............................... 11,000
Donald A. Ocker, Placida, Florida
805 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Donald and Jane Ocker Marching Band Scholarship Fund in the School of Music............ 23,285
Marina H. Park, Palo Alto, California
for support in the Law School.................................................... 10,000
Payne Family Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Women's Leadership Council Scholarship Endowment Fund in
the School of Business Administration................................................. 15,000
Donald E. Pollard, Rye, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 10,000
Diana Mendley Rauner, Winnetka, Illinois
for support at University of Michigan..................................................... 10,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 110,000
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 75,000
Jessie Ridley Foundation, Inc., Chappaqua, New York
for scholarships at the University of Michigan........................................... 10,000
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Funds in the College of Pharmacy and
the School of Dentistry......................................................... 13,251
Roy H. Roberts Charitable Lead Unitrust, Naples, Florida
for the Dr. Roy and Mrs. Natalie Roberts Trust Fund for Dentistry in the School of Dentistry...... 178,281
Richard Rogel Trust
for the Geraldine Ford Memorial Scholarship Fund and the Rogel Scholarship Fund at
the University of Michigan..................................................... 788,850
Joseph and Rose Rontal Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Eugene Rontal Family Resident Education Fund and
the Michael Rontal Family Anatomy Course in the Medical School and
for the Eugene and Ellen Rontal Pre-College Mentoring Fund at the University of Michigan........ 40,000
Prudence L. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
110 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for support in the School of Music,
for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, and
for the University Musical Society.................................................... 10,950
Marion Ryan, Flint
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint and
for the Michigan League Development Fund......................................... 20,100
Barry E. Safir, West Bloomfield
430 shares of Hewlett-Packard Company common stock
for Camp Michigania............................................................ 10,567
John W. Sanguinetti, Los Altos Hills, California
600 shares of Synopsys, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for support in the College of Engineering and
for the Elbel Club Marching Band Fund in the School of Music................................ 22,447
Margaret J. Sarvis Trust
for support at the University of Michigan............................................. 299,167
198




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Patricia C. Schemm Charitable Unitrust
for the Ferdinand Ripley Schemm  Fund in the Medical School................................. 50,671
Shirley K. Schlafer Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................... 40,000
Richard F. Scott, Ann Arbor
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry.............................  10,000
Searle Family Trust
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 25,000
Seiger Family Foundation, Los Altos Hills, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law  School............................... 10,000
Seinfeld Family Foundation, Bellmore, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Seremet Family Foundation, Potomac, Maryland
for support in the School of Business Administration.......................................  12,500
Frederic C. Sherriff, Kenilworth, Illinois
for the May L. Lafever Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering........................ 15,000
Ching ju Wang Sheu, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in  the College of Pharmacy..................................................  30,000
Mary S. Sigourney Award Trust
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................  35,000
Celia L. Sinclair, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering and the School of Business Administration.............. 15,000
Willard E. Smucker Foundation, Orrville, Ohio
for support in  the School of Art and Design...............................................  15,000
Speckhard-Knight Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Speckhard-Knight Fund in the Medical School....................................... 30,000
Michael B. Staebler, Detroit
for the building fund and the Neal Staebler Political Education Fund in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
for support in  the  Law   School..........................................................  10,600
Statprobe, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Richard G. Cornell Scholarship Fund in the School of Public Health and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...........................................................  10,600
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...........................................................  10,750
Marc H. Steglitz, New Vernon, New Jersey
200 shares of Altria Group, Inc., common stock
for support in  the School of Art and  Design...............................................  10,802
Clinton F. Stimpson, III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the College of Engineering and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 15,000
Dean C. Storkan, Hollister, California
for the Dean C. Storkan Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School......................... 12,000
Julie C. Stroh, Coral Gables, Florida
for the Julie Childress Stroh Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 10,000
King C. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
for the King and Frances Stutzman Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Artchitecture and Urban Planning........................... 10,000
John W. Sweetland Trust
for the Gayle Morris Sweetland Writing Center in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 25,000
Nancy A. Symons, Elyria, Ohio
120 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for the Dan Baker Symons Scholarship Fund and
for other support at the University  of M ichigan............................................  11,776
A. Alfred Taubman Restated Revocable Trust
for the Alfred Taubman Scholarship at the University of Michigan............................ 57,298
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York, New York
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women and
for other support in the Medical School and the School of Music..............................  17,000
Am H. Tellem, Los Angeles, California
for the Am Tellem Faculty Research Support Fund in the Law School.......................... 30,000
Temple Israel, West Bloomfield
for the Cynthia G. Fenley Memorial Fund in the Medical School.............................. 25,000
W. Bruce Thomas, Sewickely, Pennsylvania
for the W. Bruce Thomas Law Library Endowment Fund in the Law School..................... 25,000
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  50,000
Bruce R. Trefz, Gastonia, North Carolina
for the Bruce R. and Linda S. Trefz Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the  School of D entistry...............................................................  25,000
199




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Carlton E. Tripp, Sr., Tmrust
for the Carlton E. and Frances E. Tripp Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering....... 223,639
Jeremiah G. Turcotte, Ann Arbor
8,543 units of Janus mutual fund
for the Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professorship in Transplantation in the Medical School....... 200,000
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts...........................................................  10,350
United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for Judaic Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 92,945
Jay and Betty Van Andel Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 200,000
James A. vanSweden, Washington, D. C.
for the Johanna and Anthony vanSwveden Scholarship Fund in
the School of Natural Resources and Environment.........................................  10,000
Timothy Wadhamns Trust
for support in the Department of Athletics and the School of Business Administration............. 25,000
Gary T. Walther Trust
for the Class of 1963 Scholarship Fund in the School of Business Administration................. 10,000
James E. Wasco, Boxford, Massachusetts
for support in the Department of Athletics, the Medical School, and the School of Music........... 10,000
Marc N. Waterman, San Diego, California
for the Beverly J. Waterman Scholarship for Hearing Impaired in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................ 30,000
Roy E. and Carol W. Weber Charitable Lead Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Roy E. Weber General Thoracic Surgery Research Fund in the Medical School............. 25,000
Edith Z. Weinberg, Harrison, New York
for the Edith Zickerman Weinberg Scholarship Fund in the School of Music..................... 25,000
Marshall M. Weinberg, New York, New York
Six shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the Marshall Weinberg Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Institute for Social Research and the School of Natural Resources and Environment and
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 515,790
Henry E. and Consuelo S. Wenger, Pound Ridge, New York
for the Architecture Alumni Scholarship Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning........................... 10,000
Jean Whitehead, Chicago, Illinois
473 shares of Anthem, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Jean Whitehead Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Law School......... 51,045
Betty J. Williams Trust
for the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorship in the College of Engineering and
for the R. Jamison and Betty Williams Professorship in the Medical School....................1,109,213
H. W. Wilson Foundation, Inc., Bronx, New York
for scholarships in  the School of Information..............................................  10,000
Winthrop, Inc., Hampton, New Hampshire
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 50,000
Jean Y. Woodhead Estate
for the Jean Yokes Woodhead Endowment Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................................  500,000
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust, Farmington Hills
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts............................................ 10,000
Marian E. Wright, Flint
616 units of Templeton World Fund mutual fund
for the University of Michigan-Flint and
for  W FU M.........................................................................  10,292
Frederick and Katherine Yaffe Foundation, Southfield
for the Yaffe Collaborative Center in the School of Business Administration..................... 54,000
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Helen Herzog Zell Professorship in Fiction Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................................  400,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Abrahams Art Partnership, Highland Park, Illinois
part of a fine glass art collection for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
one router Express 8220 router, one Traffice Shaper and two Intel PRO/Wireless 5000 LAN starter kits for the
School of Public Health


200




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Jerry Juntunen, Chassell
one power wheelchair and power seating system with TTK for the University Hospitals
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
Ainar D. Aijala, Jr., New York, New York
Richard R. Allen, Greensboro, North Carolina
American Plastic Toys, Inc., Walled Lake
Christine M. Anderson Estate
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
Anonymous Family Foundation
Aquinas College Art & Music Department,
Grand Rapids
Aventis Pharmaceuticals Products, Inc., Bridgewater,
New Jersey
Ann Edmunds Avery, Grand Rapids
Thomas 0. Ballard Trust
Bank one Foundation, Flint
Nancy M. Bender, Ann Arbor
Elizabeth D. Black Fund of the Community Foundation
for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
James B. Blanchard, Traverse City
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
William R. Brunger, Madison, Connecticut
Richard J. Burstein, Bloomfield Hills
Stephanie J. Buttrey, Ann Arbor
Calvin College, Grand Rapids
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
Cap Gemini Ernst & Young U. S., LLC, Dallas, Texas
John Castle, Worcester, Massachusetts
Jerome V. Ciullo, Bloomfield Hills
Clan Crawford, Jr., Trust
Concert for the Cure, Brookline, Massachusetts
Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Lansing
David M. Courtis, Bellingham, Washington
Douglas D. Crary, Ann Arbor
Dan L. Curtis, Las Vegas, Nevada
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., New York,
New York
Kathleen M. Diehl, Ann Arbor
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
M. Douglas Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
Theodore Eckert Foundation, Niles, Illinois
Donald D. Finlayson, Brimley
Arnold Fisher, West Bloomfield
Peter G. Fitzgerald, McLean, Virginia
Steven M. Freeman, Chicago, Illinois
Stuart D. Freedman, New York, New York
Leonard D. Frescoln, Northville
Larry J. Gerbens, Grand Rapids
Joanne R. Gerhart, Ann Arbor
Dudley J. Godfrey, Jr. Trust
Edward Goldstein, Fullerton, California
Tamas I. Gombosi, Ann Arbor
Anne D. Green, Los Altos, California
Mark W. Griffin, Ann Arbor
Vicki and Michael Gross Family Foundation,
New York, New York
Sheldon and Eva Hamburger Philanthropic Fund,
Bloomfield Hills
Jerry F. Hanlon, Ann Arbor
James HI. Harger, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Stanley G. Harris, Lincolnwood, Illinois
Glen D. Heggie, Kalamazoo
David W. Heleniak, New York, New York
Keith S. and Marcelle Henley Foundation, Ann Arbor


Hewlett Packard Financial Services Center,
Colorado Springs, Colorado
Hewlett Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
Marsha E. Holmes, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
James D. Holzhauer, Chicago, Illinois
James S. House and Wendy Fisher House, Boston,
Massachusetts
Hudson-Webber Foundation, Detroit
Hughes Electronics Corporation, El Segundo, California
Kenneth A. Jamerson, West Bloomfield
Peter T. Joseph Foundation, New York, New York
Max Kade Foundation, New York, New York
Steven R. Kalt, Bloomfield Hills
Robert P. Kelch, Ann Arbor
KeyBank National Association, Toledo, Ohio
Knight Foundation Fund, Detroit
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
Kumon North America, Inc., Teaneck, New Jersey
Katherine E. Kurtz, Pinckney
Anne T. Larin, Huntington Woods
Michael J. Lashendock, Darien, Connecticut
Lawrence Properties & Investments, L. L. C., Ann Arbor
James A. Leonard, Ann Arbor
Jay J. Levin, West Bloomfield
Kirk Lewis, Boise, Idaho
Richard Lewnau, West Bloomfield
Simon M. Lorne, Los Angeles, Califonia
Lotspeich Company, Inc., Miami, Florida
Michael E. Lueder, Cadillac
William C. Lyle, Jr., Ann Arbor
Kathleen M. Magagna, Ann Arbor
Marcy IH. Maguire, Princeton, New Jersey
R. Michael Mahoney, Ann Arbor
James M. Mandich, Miami Lakes, Florida
Oliver Dewey Marcks Foundation, Detroit
IIMJS Marks Fund, Washington, D. C.
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., New York,
New York
Steven W. Martineau, Mount Pleasant
McCullough Construction, L.L.C., Washington, D. C.
James L. McDonald, Old Greenwich, Connecticut
Charlotte McGeoch Revocable Trust
Rogers McVaugh, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
G. Edgar Meads, London, Ontario, Canada
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station,
New Jersey
Robert E. Meredith Trust
Roger F. Meyer, Irvine, California
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company,
Saint Paul, Minnesota
Minority Plas, L.L.C., Bloomfield Hills
Susan Mulka Living Revocable Trust
Joan Mulligan Estate
Sang Y. Nam, Ann Arbor
National Public Broadcasting, L.L.C., New York,
New York
Andrea Fischer Newman, Ann Arbor
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
Northrop Grumman Litton Foundation,
Los Angeles, California
Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover,
New Jersey
Novi Endodontics, Novi
ZUI




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Timothy G. Offerle, Whittaker
Sujit K. Pandit, Ann Arbor
Donald R. and Ann V. Parfet Family Foundation,
Kalamazoo
Parker-Hannifin Foundation, Mayfield Heights, Ohio
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
E. Miles Prentice 1II, New York, New York
Procter & Gamble Company Miami, Cincinnati, Ohio
Kimberly A. Purvis, New York, New York
QAD Inc., Carpinteria, California
QQuest Corporation, Dearborn
Raymond & Prokop, P.C., Southfield
Sigurd L. and Jarmila M. Rislov Foundation, Ann Arbor
John C. Rocchio, Pacific Palisades, California
Rooney Family LLC, Ann Arbor
Dennis E. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
Alan I. Rothenberg, Los Angeles, California
Rotonda Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
Charles H. Sawyer, Chelsea
Shell International E & P, Inc., Houston, Texas
Langley R. Shook, Washington, D. C.
Clifford A. Siegel, London, England
Siemens Automotive Corporation, Auburn Hills
Sandra B. Simon, Ann Arbor
Martin H. Singer, Northbrook, Illinois
Larry J. Skoczylas, Midland
Joan K. Slocum, Naples, Florida
Rollin M. Smith Trust
SmithGroup JJR, Ann Arbor
James Stengel, New York, New York
John and Yolanda Szuch Fund, San Francisco, California
Helen M. Taylor, Ann Arbor
Robert M. and Elizabeth C. Teeter Fund,
San Francisco, California


Time, Inc., New York, New York
Patricia To, Ann Arbor
Ruth L. Townsend, Birmingham
Ronald E. Trunsky, Orchard Lake
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
Unisys Corporation, Bismarck, North Dakota
Kathleen L. Vakalo, Ann Arbor
Valeo, Auburn Hills
David G. VanHlooser, Toledo, Ohio
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett LLP,
Grand Rapids
Bernard L. Vinson, Manhasset, New York
George A. Vinyard, Chicago, Illinois
Kathleen B. and Charles R. Walgreen III Foundation,
Deerfield, Illinois
Walter H. Weiner Philanthropic Fund, New York,
New York
Keith C. Wetmore, San Francisco, California
Whole Foods Market, Austin, Texas
Clayton E. Wilhite, Ann Arbor
Thomas D. Wilkerson, Richmond, Utah
W. Scott Wilkinson, Birmingham
Jeffrey K. Willemain, Grosse Pointe
Elizabeth Ruthruff Wilson Foundation, Tecumseh
Robert J. Wilson, Portland, Oregon
Richard C. Wilson Trust
Cheryl Wingo, Incline Village, Nevada
David A. Winston Health Policy Fellowship,
Washington, D. C.
Thomas P. Wolfe, Troy
Paul A. Yhouse, Ann Arbor


Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
He called attention to the recommendation for the appointment of Frank J. Ascione as
dean of the College of Pharmacy and the appointment of five Arthur F. Thumau
professors.
Executive Vice President Slottow called attention to the recommendation for the
appointment of Margaret E. ("Peggy") Norgren as associate vice president for finance.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Fink, David J., M.D., Robert W. Brear Professor of Neurology, March 1, 2004-April 30, 2009, and
Professor of Neurology and Chair, Department of Neurology, Medical School, March 1, 2004
Mata, Marina, M.D., Professor of Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2004
Schuger, Lucia, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Pathology, without
tenure, Medical School, April 1, 2004
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Follansbee, George L., Jr., Assistant Dean for Development and Alumni Relations, Law School,
March 1, 2004-February 28, 2007
Gottschalk, Katherine B., Assistant Dean for Financial Aid, Law School, March 1, 2004-February 28, 2007
Guindi, Susan Marie, Assistant Dean for Career Services, Law School, March 1, 2004-February 28, 2007
O'Donnell, Matthew, Chair, Department of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009


202




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Thompson, Levi T., Jr., Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Athey, Brian D., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, December 1, 2003
Helfand, Gloria, Associate Professor of Environmental Economics, with tenure, also appointed Interim
Associate Dean, School of Natural Resources and Environment, January 1-June 30, 2004
Lichtenstein, Richard L., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Markel, Howard, George E. Wantz Professor of the History of Medicine and Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of History, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of Health Management and
Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health, January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
Middlebrooks, John C., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
Steel, Robert P., Professor of Organizational Behavior, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Management, January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
SOTHERPERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Named Professorships
Gehring, William J, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Jones, J. Wayne, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Moje, Elizabeth B., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Moore, Scott A., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Owen, Robert M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Appointnents to Endowed Professorships
Kikuchi, Noboru, Roger L. McCarthy Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
March 1, 2004-December 31, 2008
Kotowicz, William E., Roy H. Roberts Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
February 1, 2004-January 31, 2009
Wang, Cun-Yu, Richard H. Kingery Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
February 1, 2004-January 31, 2009
Other Transcations
Ascione, Frank J., Dean, College of Pharmacy, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Groves, Robert W., Associate Vice President for Development, Office of Development, April 5, 2004
Norgren, Margaret E., Associate Vice President for Finance, Office of the Associate Vice President for
Finance, March 1, 2004
Schmidt, Mary, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2003-June 30, 2008
White, Fred J., Jr., Interim Executive Director of University Audits, Office of the President, February 1, 2004
Moreland, Keith A., Associate Dean, UM-Flint School of Management, January 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective January 1-April 30, 2004
Schooi of Social Work Executive Commrittee
Gant, Larry M., retroactive, vice Michael Spencer, sabbatical leave
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.


203




Februrary Meeting, 2004


AD MINIS RAT I'VE LY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Beck-Matjias, Melissa L., M.F.A., Lecturer in Music (Dance), School of Music, January 1-April 30, 2004
Beno, Mary E., M.S., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2004
Bohdiewicz, Paul J., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, February 16, 2004-February 15, 2005
Boyapati, Chandrasekhar, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Chan, Emily, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Chong, Hwa, M.A., Lecturer in Physical Education, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2004
Conforth, Bruce M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Daubenmeier, Judith M., Ph.D., Lecturer II in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Dawson, Carol A., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-April 30, 2004
Donahue, Kelli J., M.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2004
Epstein, Karen A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Godek, Andrew J., M.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2004
Good, Eric D., D.O., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School,
January 13, 2004-January 12, 2005
Green, Liza B., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2004
Hultgren, Jody N., M.Ed., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2004
Kirkland, Anna R., J.D., Lecturer I in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Kirkwood, Keith L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
Madej, Bruce M., B.A., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2004
Manojlovich, Milisa M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing,
January 1-August 31, 2004
Marsh, Valerie Y., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-April 30, 2004
Mattawa, Khaled, M.A., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Mayer, Michael, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Minear, Meredith E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Nelson, Sherry L., M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, October 26, 2003-August 31, 2004
Nichols, Adriana R., M.Ed., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2004
O'Donnell, Thomas W., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Pant, Hans A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Petrescu, Damian V., M.A., Lecturer I in History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Pollick, Marissa W., J.D., Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2004
Pranke, Patrick A., A.B.D., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Richardson, John D., J.D., Lecturer I in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Ritter, Mary A., L.L.C., Lecturer I in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Roberts, William W., M.D., Assistant Professor of Urology, Medical School,
January 15, 2004-January 16, 2006
Rohlck, Theresa N., M.A., Lecturer II in English Language, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Ruff, Jill M., M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-April 30, 2004
Schaffer, Natalia V., B.A., Lecturer I in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Schorn, Brian W., M.F.A., Lecturer II in Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004


204




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Taylor, Bradley W., M.P.H., Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
November 1, 2003-October 31, 2005
Tekell, Janet, M.D., Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, December 14, 2003-December 13, 2004
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENT OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Eichhom-Mulligan, Amy C., D.Phil., Lecturer in Graduate School, Rackham Graduate School,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2005
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alvarez, Stephanie M., Lecturer I in Residential College also appointed Lecturer I in American Culture,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Bruggeman, Teresa M., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, also appointed Lecturer in
Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, January 1-April 30, 2004
Elitzur, Haggai, Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies also appointed Lecturer II in Mathematics, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Hutton, Elizabeth B., Lecturer II in Sweetland Writing Center also appointed Lecturer II in English
Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-May 31, 2004
Sulewski, Robert M., Lecturer in Technical Communications and Lecturer in Undergraduate Education,
College of Engineering, also appointed Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Tell, Carol, Lecturer II in Sweetland Writing Center also appointed Lecturer II in English Language and
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2004
Ansbacher, Rudi, Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2004
Birdsall, William C., Associate Professor Emeritus of Social Work, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Brown, Donald R., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Cameron, Oliver G., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Chethik, Morton, Associate Professor Emeritus of Child Psychoanalysis, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2004
Ertel, Inta J., Professor Emerita of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2004
Fischer, Theodore V., Associate Professor Emeritus of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Gluck, Peter R., Professor Emeritus of Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Green, Daniel G., Professor Emeritus of Physiological Optics, Medical School, Professor Emeritus of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science and Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering,
College of Engineering, and Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-December 31, 2004
Hawkins, Joseph E., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2004
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2004
Lusk, Sally, Professor Emerita of Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2003-September 29, 2004
McKeachie, Wilbert J., Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Pehlke, Robert D., Professor Emeritus of Metallurgical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-December 31, 2004
205




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Porter, Richard, Professor Emeritus of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature and Professor Emeritus of
Curriculum Support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Roloff, Dietrich W., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2004
Singer, J. David, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-August 31, 2004
Tanter, Raymond, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-August 31, 2004
Wilkes, James, Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2004
CORRECTION TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY APPOINTMENT
Zald, Mayer N., Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor
Emeritus of Social Work, School of Social Work, and Professor Emeritus of Business
Administration, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2003-February 29, 2004
(previously reported effective September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Axelrod, Daniel, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1, 2003-May 31, 2005
Baumgarten, Elias, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Beydoun, Ahmad A., Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, Medical School, personal leave,
November 30, 2003-June 30, 2004
Cewell, Don B., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004
Casa, Frank P., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-June 30, 2004
Clark, Elaine G., Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Coleman, Andrew M., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Dworkin, Steven N., Professor of Romance Linguistics, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Friedman, David I., Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement
furlough, January 1-December 31, 2004
Hanna, Gregory L., Associate Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, November 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Herreo-Olaizola, Alejandro, Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Hicken, Allen D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Hoffnung-Garskof, Jesse E., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of American Culture,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-August 31, 2004
Holl, Augustin F. C., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 5-March 11, 2004
Hull, Brooks B., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Iott, John W., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Jensen, Viviane C., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
family medical leave, November 26-December 31, 2003
Kotowicz, William E., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, administrative leave,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2004, and retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Krier, James E., Earl Warren Delano Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004


206




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Krisch, Alan D., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-June 30, 2004
LaFountain-Stokes, Lawrence M., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of
Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Leith, Emmett N., Schlumberger Professor of Engineering and Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, retirement furlough,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2005
Locke, Amy B., Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, child care leave,
October 13-December 9, 2003, and family medical leave, January 14-31, 2004
Moran, Gerald F., Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Moreiras-Menor, Cristina, Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Neal, Homer A., Interim President Emeritus, Vice President Emeritus for Director of The University of
Michigan Project Atlas, Samuel A. Goudsmit Distinguished University Professor of Physics, and
Professor of Physis, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Puff, Helmut, Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Raymond, Pamela A., Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2004
Rehemtulla, Alnawaz, Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Radiology, without tenure, Medical School, and Associate Professor of Environmental Health
Sciences, without tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004
Sanjines, Javier C., Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Shatz, Marilyn J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, January 1-April 16, 2004
Spinelli, Emily L., Professor of Spanish, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004
Swanson, Joel A., Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, January 1-June 30, 2004
Swanson, Michele S., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 2004
Tardif, Twila Z., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Till, Gerd O., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2005
Varshney, Ashutosh, Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Wald, Alan M., Professor of English and American Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Zakarian, Armen, Associate Professor of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave,
January 1-April 30, 2004
CANCELLATIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Adams, Julia P., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Yaeger, Patricia S., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resmgned
Achen, Christopher H., Warren E. Miller Collegiate Professor of Political Science and Professor of
Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2003


207




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Hurtado, Sylvia, Associate Professor in the Center for the Study of Higher and Postsecondary Education,
with tenure, School of Education, December 31, 2003
Kales, Theresa A., Lecturer II in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2003
Killough, Kevin, Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, November 30, 2003
Lin, Yi, Lecturer II in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2003
Martin, Brian B., Lecturer in Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, December 31, 2003
McLaren, Ian D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, December 31, 2003
Saarel, Elizabeth V., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, December 31, 2003
Sanda, Martin G., Associate Professor of Urology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, December 9, 2003
Schaffer, Natalia V., Lecturer I in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2003
Volakis, John L., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of
Engineering, December 31, 2003
erin Completed
Bishop, John P., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2003
Cho, Eun-Su, Assistant Professor of Korean Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2004
Coibion, Ava J., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2003
Heininger, Joseph C., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 2003
Kingsley, Lauren, Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2003
Kopchick, Laura A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 2003
Kuennen, Kristyn E., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 2003
Lapcharoensap, Rattawut, Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, December 31, 2003
Lea, Angela F., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2003
Mason, George P., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2003
Norton, Sean P., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2003
Sulzer, Carrie S.K., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 2003
Umans, Kate E., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, December 31, 2003
Retiremient M         emoirs. No retirements of active faculty members were reported to
the Regents this month.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. Provost Courant submitted for approval the December 2003 doctoral
degree list, final degree lists for the December 2003 commencement, and changes to
previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Parking Rate Increase and Annual Parking Maintenance Program
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted for information faculty and staff parking
rates for FY 2004 and planned rate increases for the following three years.


208




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Alternative Asset Commitments
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that the University had made follow-on
investments from the Long Term Portfolio with three previously approved alternative
asset partnerships: ComVentures VI, L.P. ($20.0 million); Silver Lake Partners II, L.P.
($30.0 million); and TCV V, L.P. ($30.0 million).
Alternative Asset Commitment
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that the University had made a
commitment of $20.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio as a follow-on investment to
SRI Seven REIT.
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Liquid Realty Partners II, LLC.
Absolute Return Investment
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved Prospect Harbor Credit Partners with initial funding of up to $50.0
million. Regent Brandon recused himself from voting due to a conflict of interest.
Equity Management
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in mandate for Capital Guardian Trust, an investment
manager for non-U.S. equities in both developed and emerging markets, to one with an
enlarged scope with a global mandate that also includes U.S. equities as well.
Building Naming (Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy Building)
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved designating the new Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
building as Joan and Sanford Weill Hall.
Ford Nuclear Reactor Decommissioning Project
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that much background work has already
been done in preparation for proceeding with the decommissioning of the Ford Nuclear
Reactor. It was noted that funding is available to cover current projects that involve the
nuclear reactor that will enable faculty to get their needs met at other facilities. The
decommissioning plan will be submitted to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC)
this spring, he noted, and it is anticipated that the NRC will take six to twelve months for
review. Once approved, the actual decommissioning process will take approximately 18
months. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Ford Nuclear Reactor Decommissioning Project as described
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.


209




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Madison Building Third Floor Renovations
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the Madison Building Third Floor Renovations Project as
described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts,
providing that bids are within the approved budget. After the renovations have been
completed, the Law School development staff, currently housed in 730 S. State Street,
will move into the Madison Building, and the building at 730 S. State will be demolished
to prepare the site for the eventual construction of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy Building.
Palmer Field Reconstruction of Eight Tennis Courts
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Palmer Field Reconstruction of Eight Tennis Courts Project as
described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Michigan Stadium 2004 Concrete Repairs
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the Michigan Stadium 2004 Concrete Repairs Project as described
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UM.H:H:C) Reproductive
Endocrinology and Infertility Program and Perinatal Assessment Center
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved relocating the UMHHC Reproductive Endocrinology and
Infertility (REI) Program and Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) Lab to
Briarwood I from Mott Children's Hospital and expansion of the Perinatal Assessment
Center (PAC) at Mott Children's Hospital upon completion of the REI Program/ART Lab
relocation. Approval was also given for issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 8 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by
Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Lease Agreement with Traverwood III LLC
The Regents approved a lease agreement for property located at 2025 Traverwood to
be leased from Traverwood III LLC, for research programs in the Department of
Psychiatry. Because William C. Martin, a University employee, would be a party to the
lease agreement because he is a member of Traverwood III LLC, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the lease agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Traverwood III LLC.


210




Februrary Meeting, 2004


2.   The service to be provided is the lease agreement of 27,443 square feet of building
space at 2025 Traverwood for five years, beginning April 1, 2004 through March 31,
2009, beginning at a monthly rate of $48,025 and ending at an estimated monthly rate
of $54,052.  Under the lease agreement, the leasehold improvements will be
constructed directly by the landlord and reimbursed by the University. The leasehold
improvements total $325,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is a member of Traverwood III LLC.
Lease Amendment with William           C. Martin (Institutional Review      Board office
space)
The Regents approved a re-negotiated lease agreement for property located at 540 E.
Liberty Street to be leased from William C. Martin, in which the Institutional Review
Board (IRB) offices will be assuming 4,488 square feet of the space currently leased for
the School of Social Work. Because William C. Martin, a University of Michigan
employee, is also the owner of the property, this lease amendment falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.      The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the lease agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
William C. Martin.
2.   The service to be provided is the lease agreement of a building at 540 E. Liberty for
fifteen years, beginning March 1, 2004 through February 28, 2019, beginning at a
monthly rate of $7,200. This monthly rate will be fixed for the first five years and
increased every March thereafter based upon the Consumer Price Index. Under the
lease, any desired minor leasehold improvements are constructed directly by the
landlord and reimbursed by the University with the exception of paint and carpet.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the owner of the property.
Lease Amendment with William C. Martin (School of Social Work space)
The Regents approved a lease agreement for property located at 540 E. Liberty
Street to be leased from William C. Martin, involving space to be occupied by the School
of Social Work. Because William C. Martin, a University employee, is also the owner of
the property, this lease amendment falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The   following   information   is provided   in  compliance   with   statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the lease agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
William C. Martin.
2.   The service to be provided is the lease amendment of a building at 540E. Liberty
Street for eighteen months, beginning March 1, 2004 through August 31, 2005,
beginning at a monthly rate of $2,407 and increased in September 2004 based upon
the Consumer Price Index.    Under the lease, any desired minor leasehold
improvements are constructed directly by the landlord and reimbursed by the
University.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is the owner of the property.
Subcontract Agreement between           the  University   of Michigan     and   NanoBio
Corporation
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and NanoBio Corporation for a project involving development and testing of
nanoemulsions for various decontamination purposes, with Dr. Kent Johnson, professor of
pathology, as principal investigator for the University. Because the part owner, president,


211




Februrary Meeting, 2004


chief operating officer, chairman of the board, and chief science officer of NanoBio
Corporation, Dr. James R. Baker, Jr., is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and NanoBio Corporation.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. Dr. Kent
Johnson, professor in the Department of Pathology, will be the principal investigator
for the subcontract at the University to be conducted over at least a one-year period at
an estimated cost of $342,000 including indirect costs at full federal indirect cost
(53%). Since research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes
provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope.  University of Michigan
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by
the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Baker's pecuniary interest arises from his capacity as an officer of NanoBio
Corporation.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Ablation Frontiers
The Regents approved an option agreement with Ablation Frontiers to further
develop a device invented by Dr. Hakan Oral and Dr. Fred Morady, known as "Ablation
Catheter for Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation." Because Drs. Oral and Morady, both
University of Michigan employees, also hold an equity interest in Ablation Frontiers, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Ablation
Frontiers.
2.   Option terms include:
Field of use: Therapeutic applications
Grant: Exclusive for 6 months
Patent Expenses: Ablation Frontiers will reimburse UM's back patent expenses and
pay expenses incurred during the option.
Exercise: Prior to OTT entering into license negotiations, Ablation Frontiers will need
to demonstrate: an identified and committed, experienced and capable management
team, an appropriate commercialization strategy, and a capitalization plan indicating
sufficient access to capital to enable the commercialization plan to be executed.
The University will retain ownership of the optioned technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Oral and Morady arise from their ownership interest in
Ablation Frontiers. They will waive any personal participation in the sharing of
revenue received by the University from the company.
Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan                   and
Rubicon Genomics, Inc.
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement with Rubicon
Genomics, involving the University's acceptance of additional shares of stock in lieu of
payment of $100,000 of milestone fees that are due to the University. Because Dr.
Vladimir L. Makarov and Dr. John Langmore, the inventors involved in the license
agreement and University of Michigan employees, also hold an equity interest in Rubicon
Genomics, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The   following  information   is provided   in  compliance with    statutory
requirements.
212




Februrary Meeting, 2004


1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Rubicon
Genomics, Inc.
2.   Contract terms include that the University will obtain additional shares in Rubicon
Genomics, Inc.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Langmore and Dr. Makarov arise from their ownership
interest in Rubicon Genomics. They have waived any personal participation in the
sharing of revenue received by the University from the company.
Materials Evaluation Agreement between the University of Michigan and NanoBio
Corporation
The Regents approved a materials evaluation agreement between the University of
Michigan and NanoBio Corporation under which NanoBio Corporation will provide Dr.
Christine Sedgley a nanoemulsion for use in a research project. Because Dr. James Baker,
CEO and CSO of NanoBio Corporation, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and NanoBio
Corporation.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the use of the materials is four months, and there is no funding involved.
3.   Dr. Baker's pecuniary interest arises from his status as CEO and CSO of NanoBio
Corporation. He will not be involved in the project at either the University of
Michigan or at NanoBio Corporation.
Subcontract Agreement between          the University    of Michigan     and  Michigan
Aerospace Corporation
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Michigan Aerospace Corporation to provide mechanical design and mechanical
engineering, as requested, in conjunction with a contract received by the University from
the Jet Propulsion Laboratory-NASA for the project "Phoenix Meteorology (MET)
Experiment." Because Dr. Lennard Fisk, a University of Michigan employee, is also
owner of 50% of the stock of Michigan Aerospace Corporation, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Michigan
Aerospace Corporation.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
is from January 1, 2004, through July 31, 2007, and the amount of the agreement to
Michigan Aerospace Corporation is not to exceed $300,000.  The University's
standard subcontract provisions will apply. Since research agreements are often
amended, the subcontract includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope.
University of Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed,
and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   Dr. Fisk's pecuniary interest arises from his status as partial owner of Michigan
Aerospace Corporation. He is not involved in the project at either the University of
Michigan or at Michigan Aerospace Corporation.
Membership Agreement between the Center for Wireless Integrated Microsystems
(WIMS) at the University of Michigan and Sensicore
The Regents approved an agreement allowing Sensicore to enter into a consortium
membership in the WIMS Center at the University of Michigan. Because Richard B.


213




Februrary Meeting, 2004


Brown, a University of Michigan employee, is also on the Sensicore Technical Advisory
Board, is a stockholder in Sensicore, and consults for Sensicore, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Center
for Wireless Integrated Microsystems (WIMS) and Sensicore.
2.   The partnership agreement conforms to University policy.  It has no specific
deliverables unique to Sensicore.
3.   Dr. Brown's pecuniary interest arises from his status as a member of the Sensicore
Technical Advisory Board, a stockholder in Sensicore, and a consultant for Sensicore.
Henry Russel Awards for 2004
President Coleman informed the Regents that the Henry Russel Award Selection
Committee had selected three faculty members to receive Henry Russel Awards for 2004:
Todd M. Austin, associate professor of electrical engineering and computer science; Brian
D. Conrad, associate professor of mathematics; and Loma D. Goodison, associate
professor of English Language and Literature and associate professor of Afroamerican
and African studies.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:10 p.m. The next
meeting will be held March 18, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretaty of the University


214




March Meeting, 2004


MARCH MEETING, 2004
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 18, 2004
The Regents convened at 2:10 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Courant, Executive Vice President
Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor
Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President and
Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Vice President
Harper was absent.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and announced that Public
Comments would be the next order of business.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people, on the topics indicated.
Rahul Saksena, student, on the Office of Multi-Ethnic Student Affairs; Jim Mogensen,
citizen, on the town-gown relationship; Isha Singh, citizen and member of the Sikh
Studies Association, on the Sikh Studies chair appointment; Dennis Pollard, vice
president of Lecturers Employees Organization, on lecturers at the University of
Michigan; Matt Stehney, student, on the Pow Wow; Alexandria Cadotte, student and
member of Native American Students Association, on Michigamua; Stephanie Chang,
student, on the need for a University hate crime policy; Erik Glenn, student, on cuts to and
reorganization of the LGBT office; Magali Padilla, student, representing La Voz Latina,
on the Office of Multi-Ethnic Student Affairs; Kathryn Turnock, student and member of
Our Voices Count, on changes to SAPAC services; Lydia Gregg, president of School of
Art and Design Student Government, on curriculum changes and in support of University
lecturers; and Mia White, student and member of Our Voices Count, on changes to
SAPAC services.
Following the comments, several Regents thanked the student speakers for coming
to the meeting and expressing their concerns. They noted that although these are tough
budgetary times, there are ways to work together to explore approaches to address the
issues that were raised.
A 20-minute break followed, from 3:20-3:40 p.m.
Statement on the University Budget
President Coleman made the following remarks:
I want to take a few minutes to discuss the state budget situation and the University's
plans for the months ahead. We face a challenging environment for our core teaching and
research because of unprecedented and continuing reductions in our state appropriation. As
you know, this appropriation is a critical component in providing a high-quality educational
experience for University of Michigan students, especially at the undergraduate level.


215




March Meeting, 2004


I expect to bring a recommendation to you later this spring, asking you to accept the
Fiscal Year 2005 state budget proposal for higher education - under the condition that the
Legislature fulfills the terms outlined in that proposal. I understand the chancellors of the
Dearborn an;d Flint campuses will do the same. By taking this action, we would limit further
cuts to our state appropriations, would receiv  e som   relief on the significant mid-year cut of
2004, and would agree to limit our 2005 tuition increase fbr in-state undergraduate students.
The state's proposal, if it remains substantially intact through the legislative
deliberations, will allow us to mitigate the cumulative reduction in appropriations and be
re-sponsive to the continued erosion of the state ' budget situation.
One of the most important considerations for us is the impact on our annual base
appropriation fior the Ann Arbor campus, which will be $321 million f 'we ac pt the proposal,
but only $301 million if we do not accept it. This funding is critical to our long-term financial
stabilito.
We support the efforts of the Governor and the Legislature to keep public higher
education affordable for Vichigan families. We share that goal, and it was most recently
reflected in our decision to hold the current years' tuition increase well below the average of
statewide tuition increases. But tuition restraint will not be possible over time unless we can
depend upon adequate and predictable appropriation levels.
This year finds us in an especially challenging circumstance. The economic do'wnturn
has not yet abated for our state, and it continues to put pressure on state government, as well as
on.Michigan residents and all of our publicly supported enterprises. We want to partner with
the State of Michigan to do all we can during a time of such economic stress.
But the state's proposal does not alter the reality of nearly $43 million cut from our
base-level state support for the Ann Arbor campus in the last two years, along with almost $20
million in one-time cuts. These finding reductions are unprecedented.
As you know, we have responded to this reduction in our annual appropriations by
cutting our budget deeply, and we have more hard work to do. We estimate we will need to cut
another $20 million from the Ann Arbor budget for the 2005 fiscal year. That is in addition to
the $37 million we cut last year.
By the time the coming year conc.ludes, we will have taken a total of $57 million out of
the budget in order to address these severe revenue constraints. Our Flint and Dearborn
campuses also face additional cuts. The Flint campus anticipates cutting another $800,000 next
yeatr, and in Dearborn the reduction will be $.1 million on top of previous budget cuts.
We have responded responsibly to calls obr the University to examine its expenditures,
and we continue to promote efficiency aggressively in all areas of our institution. But we cannot
minimize the significant impact of these reductions, and we must honestly face the serious
long-term consequences for all three of our campuses.
Preserving the qualitv of core academic activity is our highest priority. We will be
la   ser-c d on protecting our academic quality for the fiture --- if our quality begins to
decline, it will take far longer to rebuild than it will take to lose it.
Our students and families expect and demand the academic excellence that has created
the outstanding reputation of the Universit2 of Michigan. Our alumni, too, have an enormous
stake in the continued strength of their alma mater.
The distinctive quality of our university depends on stable state support and reasonable
tuition revenue. As -we go fo/brward, we must be clear that -we accept the state's proposal only as
a short-term measure. It is not a sustainable, long-term solution. Ultimately, we must be true to
our mission and to our students. We cannot let the focus on cost trump the commitment to
quality.


216




March Meeting, 2004


As I told the Senate higher education subcommittee last month, our public universities
must work with the Governor and the Legislature to find more sustainable models that can
achieve our shared goals of both excellence and affordability. I believe our long-term planning
should incorporate three main elements:
"* More robust and more predictable state support;
"* Moderate tuition increases;
"* And a continued emphasis on financial aid, especially in the form ofgrants.
Financial aid can pave the road to affordability. We have increased financial aid at a
greater rate than tuition over the past several years to meet the fidl financial need of every
in-state undergraduate. We know 'we must do even more, and we will be focusing an
extraordinary effort on scholarships as a central component of our upcoming capital campaign.
In the coming weeks, the Provost will work closely with deans, executive officers, and
unit directors to move through the budgeting process for the year ahead. We have developed a
set of guiding principles to help shape our planning and budget decisions. We know there will
be difficult choices to make, and there will be no easy answers.
Let me say it again: Continued academic quality is our first priority.
In addition, Michigan's public universities must put tremendous effort into creating a
new kind of partnership with our state. I believe that the concept of "partnership" is a two-way
street. We have to ensure that investment in our public universities meets the needs of our state
and reaps robust economic vitality for Michigan. Nowhere is that more evident than in my
determination to bring down barriers and foster greater economic development activity
stemming from our University's research. I welcome this week's announcement from the
Governor announcing the formation of a Blue Ribbon Commission on Higher Education. I look
Jbforward to working with Governor Granholm, Lt. Governor Cherry, and commission members
to improve the state 's economy through higher education.
The University and the State still have many economic challenges to face. I will
continue to make sure that we do not forget the fiuture, as we work together to solve the
problems of the present.
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman commented on a number of noteworthy student accomplishments
and honors during the past month.
CommitteeReports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and were updated in three areas: internal audit activity
over the last three months; review of the FY 2004 external audit plan; and information on
the FY 2005 General Fund budget.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that the
committee would be meeting immediately following the Regents' Meeting. She noted
that continuing informal discussions are being held with the president about
establishing a vision for the University.
University of Michigan Undergraduate Research Forum
Vice President Ulaby announced that a new scientific journal has been published on
campus that is written, edited, managed, and published by undergraduate students. He


217




March Meeting, 2004


introduced the faculty advisors for the project: Sandra Gregerman, director of the
Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program (UROP), and Cinda-Sue Davis, director
of Women in Science and Engineering (WISE). He then introduced students who have
been involved in creation of the journal, the University of Michigan Undergraduate
Research Forum: Shahzad Zafar (internal relations representative), Wei Gu (editor in
chief), Adam Brzezinski (publicity manager), Shauna Puhl (copy editor), Shailesh
Agarwal (financial manager), and Sanyo Tsai (graphics editor). The students described
how they brought the idea of a peer-reviewed undergraduate journal from concept to
reality and distributed copies of the inaugural issue.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of February 19, 2004.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report,
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report
Littigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, February 1 - February 29, 2004.
University of Michigan Health System. No additional report was submitted.
Division of Student Affairs. There was no additional report.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little noted that a celebration had
recently been held in honor of the 30th anniversary of the Commission for Women on
the Dearborn campus.  He also called attention to the recommendation for the
appointment of Katie Anderson-Levitt as dean of the College of Arts, Sciences and
Letters.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas pointed out that students from
the Flint campus were well represented at the recent Honors Convocation. Of special
note is that of the four students recognized as Angell Scholars for 8 semesters, two were
from the Flint campus.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. President Coleman commented that this
would be the last meeting that Angela Galardi and Monique Perry would be attending
as president and vice president, respectively, of MSA.
Ms. Galardi thanked the Regents and administrators for their support during the
past year and noted that it had been a wonderful experience. She then offered her
observations on the public comments session and noted that she was in full support of
the perspectives that had been raised by the student speakers. She pointed out that
despite budget constraints, it is very important that programs in the area of student
services be maintained as they provide support for students who lack support elsewhere
and allow them to feel comfortable at the University.
Ms. Galardi gave a personal perspective on proposed changes to the Greek system,
and noted that it provided a means for developing leadership skills and networking.
218




March Meeting, 2004


Proposed changes would increase barriers for students to join the Greek system and
would result in a decrease in the numbers of students who would become involved. The
requirement to have resident advisors in each chapter would force many chapters to
close and would further deter students from considering joining the Greek system. Ms.
Galardi commented that the entire Greek community is opposed to the changes being
considered. She stated that students feel strongly that they need to be a part of the
discussions about this issue and other changes to student programs being proposed in
response to budget cutbacks.
Ms. Monique       Perry, vice    president of MSA, thanked           the  Regents    and
administrators for her experience during the past year. She noted that MSA had passed
resolutions expressing full support of all of the issues raised by the students during
public comments, including fully funding the annual Pow Wow, not proceeding with
the restructuring of SAPAC, reporting and recording bias incidents, and fully funding
the Office of Multi-Ethnic Student Affairs. She commented that the deteriorating
condition of the multi-cultural center (William Monroe Trotter House) discourages
prospective minority students from considering coming to Michigan.
Ms. Perry also commented that a policy needs to be put in place for dealing with
hate crimes. She urged the University administration to be responsive to the concerns
expressed by the students.
Voluntary Support.        Vice President May submitted the report of voluntary
support.
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for support in the College of Engineering.............................................. $20,000
Allergan Pharmaceuticals, Irvine, California
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 83,750
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, Inc., Washington, D. C.
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 100,000
Edwin D. Allmendinger Trust
for support at the University of Michigan.............................................   995,383
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 105,862
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, Rockville, Maryland
for scholarships in the College of Pharmacy................................................. 24,000
American Medical Association Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Medical School................................................. 20,000
American Society for Surgery of the Hand, Rosemont, Illinois
for support in the Medical School.......................................................  15,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.............................. 10,000
Anonymous Trust
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................ 50,000
ArvinMeritor Trust Fund, Troy
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................................... 20,000
ASN, Washington, D. C.
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 37,500
Atlantic Philanthropies, Inc., New York, New York
for support at the University of Michigan........................................ 140,000
Lawrence S. Bartell, Ann Arbor
1,323 shares of various corporate common stock
for chemistry in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 49,898
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 56,250
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Child Welfare Law Program in the Law School....................... 12,500


219




March Meeting, 2004


Robert H. Berry, Ann Arbor
536 shares of various corporate common stock
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 15,600
Bohlen Real Estate Corporation, Brighton
for support in the Museum of Art...................................................... 17,500
Brookdale Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health.......................................... 50,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 100,000
William C. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
314 shares of Mellon Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the Law School...................................................... 10,539
Chiron Corporation, Emeryville, California
for support in the Medical School.................................................... 10,000
Blanche M. Chorney Estate
for the Beatrice Mae Jeffrey Pediatric Research Fund in the University Hospitals.................. 35,483
Clan Crawford, Jr., Trust
for the Exhibit Museum....................................................... 12,000
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 17,000
DCES Educational Services, Canton
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering.............................  20,000
Dell USA. LP, Round Rock, Texas
for support in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering and
the School of Business Administration................................................... 30,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 13,000
Alisa and Daniel Doctoroff, New York, New York
457 shares of Washington Mutual, Inc., common stock
for the Martin and Allene Doctoroff Memorial Fund in the Law School......................... 20,382
Thomas D. Doctoroff, Hong Kong, Peoples Republic of China
for the Martin and Allene Doctoroff Memorial Fund in the Law School......................... 10,000
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
for the University Musical Society...................................................... 10,000
Ecolab Foundation, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 10,030
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy and
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 69,490
Forester, Buffalo, New York
for the Lloyd and Laurie Carr Fund in the Medical School................................... 10,000
James E. Foster, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Foundation for Digestive Health and Nutrition, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School............................................... 41,500
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Medical School...................................................... 40,000
Mildred G. Fritz Trust
for support in the School of Social Work and at the University of Michigan...................... 27,500
GE Corporate Pooled Services, Fort Myers, Florida
for research in the College of Engineering................................................ 20,000
General Cable Corporation, Highland Heights, Kentucky
for support in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering and
the School of Business Administration................................................... 30,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for research in the College of Engineering.......................................... 25,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning and
the School of Business Administration and
for employee matching gifts........................................................ 107,850
GlaxoSmithKline Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts....................................................  13,845
Howard and Elizabeth Gourwitz Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Music........................................... 13,750
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender................................ 25,000
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for WUOM....................................................................  25,000
220




March Meeting, 2004


Halliburton Foundation, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for employee matching gifts............................................................. 40,000
Harbor Capital Advisors, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
for employee matching  gifts............................................................  10,000
HCA Foundation, Nashville, Tennessee
for the Harold T. and Vivian B. Shapiro Prize in the School of Social Work...................... 10,000
Walter Hewlett, Palo Alto, California
1,800 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for support in the Medical School........................................................ 55,350
Hewlett Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
for research in the College of Engineering.........................................  30,000
Robert M. Hill, Davison
for the Robert M. Hill Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the James Knol, M.D. Research Fund in the Medical School................................... 10,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the Medical School......................................................... 37,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Isehara City, Japan
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 35,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health............................... 499,255
Alan T. Kalter, Ann Arbor
for the Neil Kalter Memorial Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies...... 40,000
Jeremiah Kaplan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Exhibit Museum and geological sciences support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................... 10,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the School of Public Health and
for employee matching gifts...................................................... 150,850
Max E. Kelly, Pompano Beach, Florida
for the Max E. and Lois A. Kelly Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................... 10,000
KeraCure, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................................  13,399
Virginia L. Kern Estate
for support in the School of Business Administration..................................... 45,000
Keryx Biopharmaceuticals, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................... 10,000
Susan F. Kessler, Ann Arbor
for the Harold Kessler, M.D. Endowment Fund in the Medical School.......................... 11,000
Robert P. and Jean W. Kirby Charitable Gift Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Dean Gorham Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............ 10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................. 14,852
Peter Lardner, Rock Island, Illinois
400 shares of Old Republic International Corporation common stock
for the Class of 1954 Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 10,014
Robert L. Lathrop, Anchorage, Alaska
9,115 shares of Merrill Lynch mutual fund and a cash gift
for the Robert L. Lathrop Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Dr. Robert L. Lathrop and Margaret "Petey" Lathrop Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the School of Dentistry......................................................... 100,000
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 83,000
Lupus Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 37,500
James W. MacKenzie, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Herbert E. Sloan Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School...................... 10,000
Marathon Oil Company Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 12,050
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for support in the School of Business Administration and
for employee matching gifts..........................................................  15,465
Katherine McClure Trust
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Medical School....................... 112,908
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Information............................................ 1,200,000
Martha L. Melman, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 25,000
221




March M~eetin~g, 2004


Mosaic Foundation of Rita and Peter Haydon, Ann Arbor
for support in the Museum of Art and Design,
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for Nichols Arboretum................................................................ 15,500
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................................... 30,600
Leonora E. Nash-Morgan, Sarasota, Florida
for the Leonora E. Nash-Morgan and John D. Morgan Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for
the ultimate benefit of the Leonora E. Nash-Morgan and John D. Morgan Endowment Fund in
the Medical School.................................................................. 750?335
National Cancer Prevention Fund, Denver, Colorado
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Centere........................................... 22,590
National City Bank, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Museum of Art and for the University Musical Society........................ 21,500
NFL Charities, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 82,158
Paul and Nancy O'Neill Foundation, Clifton Park, Neew York
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................................... 250,000
Eugenia -M. Oole Estate
for support in School of Art and Design and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies..... 18,389
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................. 150,000
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 11,596
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Museum of Art and
for the Medical School................................................................ 13,750
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the University Musical Society....................................................... 30,000
Proctor & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering,
for the Schools of Business Administration and Public Health,
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for other support at the University of Michigan............................................ 103,000
ProQest, Ann Arbor
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 10,050
Doris J. Ressler Trust
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 23,145
Herbert Ressler Trust
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 21,452
John 0. Robertson, Melbourne, Florida
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
Ruth Lobdell Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan................................. 10,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 23,198
Margery H. Ruth Estate
for the J. Griswold and Margery Hopkins Ruth Scholarship in the Medical School,
for the Ada L. Hopkins Scholarship Fund in the School of Music, and
for the Ada L. Hopkins Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint.................. 2424,042
Hugh F. Schaefer Estate
for support at the University of Michigan.................................................. 11,007
Elizabeth M. Schmidt, Grosse Pointe Shores
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 50,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Robert and Marjorie Shepherd Fund in the School of Music............................. 50,000
Alvin V. Shoemaker, Indian Wells, California
for support in the Law School........................................................... 10,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Institute for Social Research............................................. 20,000
Gloria L. Smith Estate
for support in the School of Music....................................................... 27,345
John F. Smith, Jr., Hilton Head Island, South Carolina
for support at the University of Michigan.................................................. 10,000
William T. Smith, Jr., Estate
for support in the School of Information................................................... 10,657
Richard D. Snyder, Ann Arbor
1,200 shares of Esperion Therapeutics, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering, the Schools of Business Administration and Law, and
222




March Meeting, 2004


the University Hospitals and
for the Richard and Sue Snyder Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 41,544
Lois A. Theis, Ann Arbor
for the Lois A. Theis Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature Science, and the Arts............................................... 10,000
Tyco Electronics M/A Company, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
for research  in  the College of Engineering..................................................  30,000
United Therapeutics Corporation, Silver Spring, Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School......................................................  50,000
Gary T. Walther, Winnetka, Illinois
200 shares of BankOne Corporation common stock
for the Class of 1963 Scholarship Fund and other support in the School of Business Administration.. 10,161
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for the BME/Whitaker Fund and other support in the College of Engineering and
for em ployee  m atching  gifts..........................................................  763,310
Whitman-Carlyon Foundation, Larchmont, New York
for the Carlyon-Whitman Dean's Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................  50,000
Barbara P. Wileden Trust
for support at the University  of M ichigan.................................................  10,000
Paul H. Wileden Trust
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................................  10,000
David P. Wood Trust, Birmingham
for the David P. Wood Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School......................... 100,000
Paul A. Wright, Grand Rapids
1,500.465 units of Templeton World Fund mutual fund
for the Audrey L. Wright Travel Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 25,823
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
one oak conference table for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Ethicon, Inc., Somerville, Newv Jersey
48 dozen sutures for the Medical School
Janice B. Longone, Ann Arbor
a large collection of various written materials of culinary interest for the Clements Library
Thomas J. McDonald, New Port Richey, Florida
a collection of historical letters, documents and other written materials for the Clements Library
National Instruments, Austin, Texas
computer software and hardware equipment for the College of Engineering
Fan Parker, Ann Arbor
the Dr. Fan Parker Vladimir Nabokov Collection for the University Library
John P. Reichert, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
an extensive collection of written materials including letters and books on the life and time of Stephen Girard
and the history of Girard College for the Clements Library
John Reznikoff, Stamford, Connecticut
a collection of historic letters, documents, and other written materials, as well as graphic related materials for
the Clements Library
Visteon Corporation, Dearborn
one Dodge Dakota composite truck and one 1/5 scale model for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Susan C. Wineberg, Ann Arbor
an extensive collection of books and other written materials related to culinary history for the Clements
Library


223




March Meeting, 2004


Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


AeroMedia Marketing, Inc., Canton
Francis J. Allaire, Great Falls, Montana
American Composers Forum, Saint Paul, -Minnesota
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc.,
New York, New York
American Society for Pharmacology & Experimental
Therapeutics, Inc., Bethesda, Maryland
Ann Arbor Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
Michelle J. Arden, Palo Alto, California
Manuel J. Asensio III, Columbus, Ohio
Bavarian Motor Village, Ltd., Shelby Township
Khalil Bazzi, Dearborn
William C. Bechtel, Royal Oak
Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc., Fort Worth. Texas
M. June Bennett, Ann Arbor
Edward J. Blanch, Bloomnfield HFlills
Butzel Long, A Professional Corporation, Detroit
Janet E. Cassebaumrn Ann Arbor
CFI Group, Ann Arbor
Christman Company Construction Services, Lansing
R. Kevin Clinton, East Lansing
Colgate-Palmolive Comp-any, Jeffersonville, Indiana
Annette Cusenza, Grosse Pointe
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
Andrew Farbman, Ann Arbor
Ferndale Laboratories, Inc., Ferndale
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Owings Mills, Maryland
Group Associated, Inc., Southfield
Kalvin M. Grove, Saint Petersburg, Florida
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P. L. C., Troy
Barnett C. Helzberg, Jr., Kansas City, Missouri
HFF Foundation, West Bloomfield
Gertrude V. Huebner, Ann Arbor


Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman,
New Jersey
Harold Kessler Trust
KeyBank National Association, Toledo, Ohio
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
Lockheed Martin Corporation Foundation, Bethesda,
Maryland
Stuart and Deena Lockman Philanthropic Fund of the
Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Detroit,
Bloomfield Hills
Annette M. Lockwood, Fairfax Station, Virginia
Market Strategies, Inc., Livonia
John T. Matthews, Jackson, Tennessee
J. Terry McElroy, Northville
Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
Gary J. Miller, Del Mar, California
David and Linda Moscow Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
NHL Enterprises, L. P., New York, New York
Nobel Biocare USA, Inc., Yorba Linda, California
Patricia D. Pawelski, Ann Arbor
Pfizer Womens Network, Ann Arbor
Donald J. Plowman, Flint
Power One Corporation, Canton
Gail W. Rector, Ann Arbor
Prudence L. Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
F. Lester Simon, Jr., Towson, Maryland
Takeda Pharmaceuticals North America, Inc.,
Lincolnshire, Illinois
Towers Perrin, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
UCB Research, Inc., Smyrna, Georgia
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska


Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
He called attention to the recommendation for the reappointment of Ada Sue Hinshaw
as dean of the School of Nursing through June 2006.
Executive Vice President Slottow called attention to the recommendation for the
appointment of Laurita Thomas as associate vice president and chief human resources
officer. He noted that she was in attendance, introduced her, and described her
extensive background in this area.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the appointment of Laurita Thomas as
associate vice president and chief human resource officer. Regent Taylor seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Vice President Krislov called attention to the recommended appointment of
Edward Goldman as associate vice president and deputy general counsel and noted that
he would be coordinating delivery of legal services to the Health System. Regent
McGowan moved approval of the appointment of Edward B. Goldman as associate vice
president and deputy general counsel. Regent White seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.


224




March Meeting, 2004


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on September 1, 2004
Howard, Matthew O., Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, and Professor of Psychiatry,
Medical School
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on September 1, 2004
House, Gloria, Associate Professor of African and African American Studies and Humanities,
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Mallick, Pankaj K., Director, Interdisciplinary Programs, UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and
Computer Science
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ellison, Julie, Professor of American Culture, with tenure, and Professor of English Language and
Literature, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of
Art, without tenure, School of Art and Design, January 1, 2004-December 31, 2008
Kane, Gordon L., Victor Weisskopf Collegiate Professor of Physics and Professor of Physics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of Art, without
tenure, School of Art and Design, January 1, 2004-December 31, 2008
Keller, Evan T., Associate Professor of Comparative Pathology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Pathology, without tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Urology, with tenure, Medical
School, February 1, 2004
Papalambros, Panos Y., Donald C. Graham Professor of Engineering and Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, also appointed Professor of Art, without tenure,
School of Art and Design, January 1, 2004-December 31, 2008
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishing a Collegiate Profesrhip
Frederick G. Novy Collegiate Professorship in Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School,
March 18, 2004
Establishing a Named Professorsihp
Ravitz Foundation Professorship in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, March 18, 2004
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointment to Named Pro{h ors.ip
Castle, Valerie P., Ravitz Foundation Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, April 1, 2004


225




March Meeting, 2004


Other Transactions
Anderson-Levitt, Kathryn M., Dean, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
April 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Goldman, Edward B., Associate Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, Office of the General
Counsel, March 18, 2004
Gordon, David, from Assistant Dean to Associate Dean for Diversity and Career Development, Medical
School, April 1, 2004
Hinshaw, Ada Sue, term extended as Dean, School of Nursing, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Spahlinger, David A., from Associate Dean to Senior Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, Medical
School, March 1, 2004
Thomas, Laurita, Associate Vice President and Chief Human Resource Officer, Office of the Executive
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, April 1, 2004
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Barton, David F., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
February 1, 2004-January 31, 2005
Gerrard, Sonja R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health,
January 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Jackson, Lisa R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Kim, Scott Y.H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School,
February 4, 2004-Feburary 3,2005
Odish, Jaron G., J.D., Lecturer II in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Arruda, Airton 0., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, December 31, 2003-November 30, 2006
Chang, Andrew C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
January 1-August 31, 2004
Davis, Matthew M., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, also appointed Assistant Professor of Public
Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Lin, Jen-Jar, from Lecturer to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, February 18-December 31, 2004
Lynch, Jerome P., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering also appointed Assistant
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
McLaughlin, John W., Lecturer II in English Language, Department of Linguistics, also appointed
Lecturer II in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2004
Schmidt, John P., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, February 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Van der Velde, Mary E., from Lecturer to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, February 18-November 10, 2004
Zoubi, Najeeb F., from Lecturer to Clinical Asssistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School, February 1, 2004-June 30, 2005


226




March Meeting, 2004


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Barclay, Mel L., Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, February
1, 2004-Janaury 31, 2005
Bement, Spencer L., Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, January 1-June 30, 2004
Flynn, Gordon L., Professor Emeritus of Pharmaceutical Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
March 1, 2004-February 28, 2005
Konigsberg, Ira, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature and Professor Emeritus of Film
and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Pandit, Sujit K., Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2004
Richards, James W., Professor Emeritus of Social and Administrative Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
April 1-May 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Balter, James M., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, January 12-July 11, 2004
Bronstein, Paul M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 2003, and duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2003
Cole, Juan R., Richard Hudson Research Professor of History and Professor of History, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Gray, Robert H., Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, School of Public Health,
retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2004
Hall, Richard L., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, extended sick
leave, January 1-September 1, 2004
Herman, William H., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, March 1-August 31, 2004
Hines, James R., Jr., Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, School of Business Administration,
Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of
Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2003
Hopson, Laura R., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, childcare leave,
March 1-May 24, 2004
Jacobson, Peter D., Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public
Heath, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Kirking, Duane M., Professor of Social and Administrative Sciences, with tenure, College of Pharmacy,
personal leave, January 1-December 31, 2005
Koenig, Ronald J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 1-June 30, 2004
Kulik, Thomas J., Amnon Rosenthal Collegiate Professor of Pediatric Cardiology and Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
February 1-July 31, 2004
Lempert, Richard O., Eric Stein Distinguished University Professor of Law and Sociology and Professor
of Law, with tenure, Law School, and Professor of Sociology, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, intergovernmental leave, June 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Navarro, Juan M. Arnau, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, personal leave, January 1-18, 2004
Parker, Edith A., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of
Public Health, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Seasholtz, Audrey F., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2003-February 29, 2004
Taylor, Bradley W., Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, military
leave, February 1, 2004-????
Taylor, Jeremy M.G., Professor of Biostatics, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of
Radiation Oncology, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 2004


227




M/arch M/eeting, 2004


Valentino, Nicholas A., Associate Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, and Assistant
Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Vazquez, Delia M., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
May 1-October 31, 2003
Wald, Alan M., Professor of English and American Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Rehemtulla, Alnawaz, Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Radiology, without tenure, Medical School, and Associate Professor of Environmental Health
Sciences, without tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, July 1-December 31, 2003
(previously reported as July 1, 2003-June 30, 2004)
Turner, Dennis F., Clinical Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, administrative leave,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005 (previously reported as January 1-December 31, 2004)
TERMI[NATI[ONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brown, Richard B., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2004
Kolias, Karen M., Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine, Medical School, December 31, 2003
Pearson, William H., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2003
Term Completed
Gravlee, Jocelyn R., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, December 31, 2003
Padalino, Massimo, Lecturer in Cardiac Surgery, Medical School, December 31, 2003
Throne, Stephanie S., Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
December 31, 2003
Retiremen   t Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco         submitted   memoirs for two
recently retired faculty members.
Cho-Yee To, Ph.D., professor of education in the School of Education, retired
from active faculty status on December 31, 2003.
Professor To received his Diploma of Arts from the United College of Hong Kong
in 1959, his M.A. degree from     Washington University in St. Louis in 1963, and his
Ph.D. degree from Southern Illinois University in 1967. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1967 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1972 and professor in 1976.
Professor To served as chair of the School of Education's program in social
foundations from 1977-79 and in 1992. He served on various committees in the School
of Education and in the graduate school, was a member of the Senate Assembly and the
Library Council, and was the faculty advisor to the education honor society, Kappa
Delta Pi.
An internationally recognized educator, Professor To was appointed visiting
professor, research professor, and dean of education of the Chinese University of Hong
Kong; the Gerald R. Read Professor at Kent State University; the Ruth Wong Lecturer
and T.Y. Wu Lecturer at the National University of Singapore; and the Daisaku Ikeda
Lecturer of Soka     Gakkai International of Tokyo.         He   also  received  honorary
professorships at universities in China, England, Japan, Korea, and Malaysia.


228




March Meeting, 2004


Professor To is a pioneer in multidisciplinary inquiry in education, having
incorporated physiological science and clinical technology into his research on teaching
and learning and on health and growth. His publications include a three-volume study
on neuroscience and education and several books about the scientific merit of the social
sciences, the philosophy of education, and religion and education. He has had over 150
articles published in a wide variety of professional journals, and a number of his works
have been translated into several languages.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Cho-Yee To
professor emeritus of education.
Teshome G. Wagaw, Ph.D., professor of education in the School of Education
and professor of Afroamerican and African studies in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 2003.
Professor Wagaw received his B.A. degree from Pacific Union College in 1958,
his M.A. degree from Andrews University in 1959, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Maryland in 1965. He served at Howard University from 1965-66 and at
Haile Selassie I University in Ethiopia from 1966-74. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as a lecturer in the Center for Afroamerican and African Studies
(CAAS) in 1975. He was appointed professor of education in the School of Education
in 1976. In 1978, he served as acting director of CAAS and was named professor of
Afroamerican and African studies. He was a research scientist in the Center for
Research on Economic Development from 1980-93.
A global scholar, Professor Wagaw has been a consultant to the United Nations,
the World Bank, and the Ethiopian and Egyptian governments, and has carried out
unique field studies in Ethiopia, Eritrea, Egypt, and Israel.  He developed the
University's first course on childbearing theory and practices in rural Ethiopia and
completed the first comprehensive study of the Ethiopian education system. He
conducted the first ethnographical investigation of the socialization of the Falasha in
Israel; this research resulted in the publication of several major articles and books.
Professor Wagaw conceived, developed, and taught courses in the areas of ethnicity
and ethnic conflict, race, prejudice, equity in educational opportunity, and educational
outcome prejudice. His expertise includes postsecondary education in developing
nations and comparative postsecondary education. Among his honors are two Fulbright
awards, a German Academic Exchange award, international travel and lecture awards
from the American Council of Education, an award from Midwestern Universities
Consortium for International Activities, and an Annenberg Institute fellowship.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Teshome G.
Wagaw professor emeritus of education and professor emeritus of Afroamerican and
African studies.
Memorials. No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees. President Coleman submitted recommendations for the following
individuals to be awarded honorary degrees: Daniel Aaron, Doctor of Humane Letters;
Julius Chambers, Doctor of Laws; David E. Davis, Jr., Doctor of Humane Letters;
William Joy, Doctor of Engineering; Helmut F. Stem, Doctor of Laws, and Karen
Uhlenbeck, Doctor of Science.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
229




MNarch Meeting, 2004


Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved an additional investment of ~2.5 million from the Long Term
Portfolio to Highcross Regional U.K. Partners L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a commitment of up to $15 million from the Long Term Portfolio
to Gamett & Helfrich Capital L.P.
Pharmacy College Building Lab Remodeling
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for remodeling the Pharmacy College Building second
and fourth floor labs as described in the Regents Communication and authorized
commissioning the architectural firm of Integrated Design Solutions for its design and
issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are
within the approved budget.
Helen Newberry Residence Replace Slate Roof
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for replacing the slate roof on Helen Newberry Residence
as described in the Regents Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Dental Building and W.K. Kellogg Institute Replacement of Elevators 4 and 5
Project
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for replacing elevators 4 and 5 in the Dental Building and
W.K. Kellogg Institute and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 4 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Triana, LLC
The Regents unanimously approved an option agreement between the University of
Michigan and Triana, LLC Inc. for commercializing a portfolio of inventions owned by
the University of Michigan, as detailed in the Regents Communication. Because the
partial owners of Triana, LLC, Samir Hanash and Gilbert Omenn, are also University of
Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.  The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements.
1.  Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Triana,
LLC.


230




March Meeting, 2004


2.   Contract terms include use in all fields. Triana will pay an option fee upon execution
of the agreement. The option period is 18 months with right to renew for additional 6
months upon completion of certain performance milestones. Triana is given an
exclusive to patent rights and will pay all ongoing patent costs during the option
period. Specific product, business and capitalization milestones must be met in order
to maintain the rights granted by the option.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Hanash and Dr. Omenn arise from their ownership
interest in Triana, LLC. They will waive any personal participation in the sharing of
revenue received by the University from the company.
Subcontract Agreement between          the   University   of Michigan     and   EMAG
Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with EMAG Technologies, Inc. for
funding of a project in the University of Michigan College of Engineering. Because the
co-founder and co-owner of EMAG Technologies, Dr. Kamal Sarabandi, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and EMAG
Technologies, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is six (6) months and the amount of funding support is $23,288. Since
research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for
changes in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval
of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Sarabandi's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of EMAG Technologies.
He is not involved in the project at either the University of Michigan or EMAG
Technologies.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and the University
Consortium for Advanced Internet Development (doing business as Internet2)
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and the University Consortium for Advanced Internet Development (doing business as
Internet2) (hereafter, "Company") to provide funding for a project to be carried out at the
University's Center for Information Technology Integration. Because the president and
chief executive officer of the Company, Douglas Van Houweling, is also a University of
Michigan faculty member, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and the
University Consortium for Advanced Internet Development (doing business as
Internet2) ("Company").
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The period of
performance for the project is four (4) months at a total cost of $39,667. Since
research agreements are often amended, the agreement includes provisions for changes
in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval of these
changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee
will be done as appropriate.


231




M/arch M/eeting, 2004


3.   Douglas Van Houweling's pecuniary interest arises from his status as president and
chief executive officer of the Company. He has played no role in the negotiation of
the agreement and will play no role in the University's effort under this agreement.
License  Agreement between      the  University  of Michigan     and  NeuroProbe
Technologies, LLC
The Regents approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
NeuroProbe Technologies, LLC ("NPT"). NPT wishes to manufacture probes under
contract with the UM Solid State Electronics Laboratory and sell the resultant probes to
third parties. Because Daryl Kipke, David Anderson, and Jamille Hetke are partial
owners of NPT and also are University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
NeuroProbe Technologies, LLC.
2.   License Terms include an xclusive, worldwide grant for the materials. NPT will pay a
royalty on sales of the probes. The University will retain ownership of the licensed
technology and may continue to further develop it and use it for research and
academic purposes. The term of the agreement is for ten years.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Kipke, Dr. Anderson, and Ms. Hetke arise from their
ownership interest in NPT. The have waived any personal participation in the sharing
of revenue received by the University from the company.
Faculty-Student Relationships Policy
Provost Courant informed the Regents that the University is instituting a new
"Faculty-Student Relationships Policy," which will be incorporated into the Standard
Practice Guide. He noted that although relationships between students and faculty are
discouraged, the policy recognizes that they can occur, and it requires disclosure and
management. If the inherent conflict of interest cannot be removed, the policy requires
termination of either the personal relationship or the classroom relationship. The policy
will be implemented during the summer of 2004.
Bylaws of the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC)
Executive Board
Executive Vice President Kelch submitted for approval proposed changes to the
UMHHC Executive Board. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent
McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved proposed amendments to the Bylaws of
the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Executive Board, as
described in the Regents Communication.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:30 p.m. The next
meeting will be held April 22, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
TFice President and Secretary of the University


232




April Meeting, 2004


APRIL MEETING, 2004
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 22, 2004
The Regents convened at 2:35 p.m. in the Pendleton Room, Michigan Union.
Present were President Coleman and Regents Brandon, Maynard, McGowan, Newman,
Richner, Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Courant, Executive Vice
President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May,
Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice
President and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Deitch and Vice President Krislov were absent.
President Coleman called the meeting to order. She welcomed a group of visitors
from Tianjin, China, who were attending the meeting as observers.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the town-gown
relationship.
Remarks by President Coleman
President Coleman addressed the Board about her aspirations and initiatives for
future directions for the University. The address is included as an appendix to these
minutes.
Faculty Awards
Provost Courant announced that four faculty members had recently been awarded
Guggenheim Fellowships: Peter Ho Davies, Rebecca Scott, James Lee, and Katherine
Verdery. He also announced that two faculty members, Philip Bucksbaum and Raymond
Kelly, had been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, and Provost Courant noted
that this is the highest honor in the sciences that is given in the United States.
School of Information Strategic Assessment
Provost Courant commented that until recently there had not been a regular, formal
process of review of the schools and colleges. He and President Coleman decided this
would be a useful exercise, so they have instituted a process of strategic assessments.
About two units will per year will undergo assessments, so that each unit will be on a
cycle of approximately 10 years between assessments. The School of Information is the
first unit to have completed the review, which involves a rigorous process of
self-assessment, followed by assessments by two outside teams, one from the University
of Michigan but external to the unit and one external to the University. The teams were
charged with responding to the question of how the unit could work with other units on
campus to take advantage of the breadth and depth of interdisciplinary opportunities
offered at the University.


233




April Meeting, 2004


Provost Courant noted that the School of Information had formerly been
constituted as the School of Library Science. It now is focusing on the broad area of the
use of information in the information age within the academy. He introduced John
King, who came to the University in January 2000 as dean of the School of Information
following a career at the University of Califomia-Irvine.
Dean King introduced the school's associate deans. He noted that the School of
Information was established in 1996 with a goal of assembling an outstanding faculty
drawn from disciplines that relate to the information age and fusing their collective
wisdom into new curricula and professional training and into new forms of research.
He pointed out that the School of Information was the first of its kind. He described the
history of the school since its founding and then described the process that was used to
conduct the strategic assessment.
Dean King noted that both the internal and external committees agreed with the
school's internal assessment that its initial start-up phase since its founding in 1996 has
been "an enormous success." He gave examples of how the school incorporated a true
interdisciplinary focus into the curriculum and noted that students are required to obtain
a number of credits in "practical engagement."
Dean King reported that concerns expressed by the evaluators involved the
challenge faced by the continuing effort of "intellectual integration" which involves
developing the fundamental intellectual space that pulls together all of the pieces of the
information age. He commented that although the School of Information is one of the
University's smaller schools, it would not be possible for it to achieve its goals if it
were to become larger than its current size, and it has no plans for expansion. He noted
that the most important challenge currently facing the school is clarification of its
business model. He concluded that he is honored by having been given the opportunity
to "join in something that had the potential to be a global leader in something very
important and very new."
Dean King then responded to questions and described efforts underway to
reconfigure the doctoral program.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and was updated in three areas:   the Athletic
Department's five-year operating and capital plan projections; development of the FY
2005 General Fund budget; and the financial performance of the University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers through March 31, 2004.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that the
committee had met and discussed options and possibilities in the area of governance
and self-evaluation for the board.
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of March 18, 2004.


234




Ap ril Meeting, 2004


Ieports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report,
Plant Extension Report, the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report, and the
Regents' Report on Non-Competitive Purchases Over $5,000 from Single Sources,
December 1, 2003, through March 15, 2004.
Executive Vice President Slottow recognized Gloria Hage, associate vice president
and deputy general counsel, for the leadership she provided as interim chief human
resources officer.
Litiion Report. The Regents received the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, March 1 - March 31, 2004.
Uni versity of Michigan Health System.  Executive Vice President Kelch
reported that the Hospitals and Health Centers had received a prestigious award, the
"Hospitals for Healthy Environment 2004 Environmental Leadership Award." Only
four hospitals in the country receive this award each year, and the University has
received it twice. He also announced that the University Hospitals has been recognized
by the Department of Health and Human Services as being one of the best in the nation
for directing organ donation. He also called attention to the proposed appointment of
Harry L.T. Mobley as chair of the Department of Microbiology and Immunology.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper introduced Jason Mironov,
the newly elected president of the Michigan Student Assembly. She also introduced
Carole Henry, who is being recommended for appointment as director of University
Housing and assistant vice president for student affairs.
University of Iichigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported that the Dearborn
campus would be participating in the campaign kickoff activities concurrent with the
Ann Arbor campus and called attention to an agenda item recognizing the contributions
of Mr. Henry Patton. He also noted that the two speakers scheduled to speak at the
Dearborn Campus commencement illustrate the depth of the engagement the campus
has with the community.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas commented that the Flint
campus welcomes and supports President Coleman's vision for the University of
Michigan. He also reported that the lieutenant governor of Michigan, an alumnus of the
University of Michigan-Flint, would be the Flint campus' commencement speaker.
Milchtigan Student Assembly Reiport. MSA President Jason Mironov introduced
himself and commented on some of the issues he planned to work on during his term as
president. These include initiatives to improve the off-campus housing situation and to
implement an annual "Spring Fling" event whose purpose would be to develop school
spirit among students. Mr. Mironov noted that the recent MSA election included a
ballot initiative, which passed overwhelmingly, to raise student fees by $1.00 to be used
toward improvement of the Trotter House.
Voluntary Support.  Vice President May submitted the report of voluntary
support. He noted that the formal launch of "The Michigan Difference" campaign is
scheduled for May 12-15, 2004. He called attention to the recent gift from the W.K.


235




April Meeting, 2004


Kellogg Foundation of $5 million to support the School of Public Health building and
noted that this is the latest in a long line of commitments from this donor.
Altria, New York, New York
for employee matching  gifts.......................................................  $  22,450
Analog Devices, Inc., Norwood, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching  gifts............................................................  50,120
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Social Work and the University Hospitals........................... 19,702
Anonymous Donor
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy......................... 100,000
Anonymous Trust
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................... 50,000
Apple Computer, Inc., Austin, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 15,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the School of Public Health........................... 59,542
Attenuon, L.L.C., San Diego, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 23,500
Jean D. Bell Estate
for the Jean Bell Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music................................. 23,411
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Child Welfare Law Program Fund in the Law School................ 17,500
Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 362,382
Paul S. Brentlinger, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for the Paul S. Brentlinger Fund in the School of Business Administration....................... 20,000
Cairn Foundation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the School of Music.................................................. 10,000
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for support in the University Hospitals......................................... 10,000
Centerpulse Dental, Inc., Austin, Texas
for research in the School of Dentistry.............................................. 15,000
ChevronTexaco, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 12,200
Comerica Bank - Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society and the Museum of Art................................. 15,250
Ralph G. Conger, Detroit
524 shares of ChevronTexaco Corporation common stock
for the Ralph G. Conger, Jr., Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
for the Ralph G. Conger Papyrology Endowment Fund in the University Library,
for the Pauline M. Conger Scholarship Fund, and
for the University Musical Society........................................................ 46,403
ConocoPhillips, Ponca City, Oklahoma
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 10,100
James F. Conrad, Nashville, Tennessee
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School.............................. 10,000
Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Lansing
for WUOM.................................................................... 21,000
Core Consulting, Inc., Troy
for the Richard E. Darnell Physical Therapy Endowment Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint.... 10,000
Robert D. Coven, New York, New York
3,700 shares of Digitas, Inc., common stock
for the Jean Coven Endowed Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 37,296
Trudy Harrison Crandall, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School................................................... 10,000
Garet N. Crosby, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Garet N. Crosby Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Department of Athletics......................................................... 100,000
John R. Crosby Memorial Fund, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School in memory of John R. Crosby............................. 10,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 33,000
Charles A. Dana Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................... 50,000
Loren S. Daniels Trust
for the Loren Daniels Scholarship in the School of Dentistry............................ 10,000


236




'Apil Meeting, 20


Delphi Foundation, Inc., Troy
-for the Delphi First Robotics Scholarship in the College of Engineering..............15,000
B. F. Domino, Inc., Ann Arbor
for researc'h in the Medical School.............................45,000
Dovebid, Inc., Foster City, California
for the Susan Nucian Memorial Golf Classic Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......12,500
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for supp ort in the College of Engineering..........................51,000
Michelle Adams Duffett, Geneva, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................10,000
Bill and Audrey Farber Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sol Drachier Program in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work.......15,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for reset rch and other support in the College of Engineering..................43,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearbomn
for the Spring to Life Event Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..............58,000
Foundation for Modern Greek Studies, Dearborn
for the Modern Greek Studies Program Support Fund and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................15,000
Four Friends Foundation, Los Angeles, California
-for the Robert K. Shaye Fund in the College of Literature, Scienc~e, and the Arts..........155,000
Samuel Frankel, Troy
for the Judaic Studies Director's Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......10,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation, Troy
for the Judaic Studies Director's Discretionary Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the Frankel Fellowships in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work........12,500
Freeman Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Scienc~e, and the Arts..................498,520
Fuji Electric Systems Company, Ltd., Toyko, Japan
for research in the Colleg4e of Engineering..........................30,000
GannettMatch Community Foundation, Louisville, Kentucky
for emp loyee matching gifts...............................11,250
Richard T. Garrett Tiustee, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Holtom-Garrett Family Professorship in Neurology in the Medical School..........65,437
Gerontological Society of America, Washington, D. C.
for the Hartford Doctoral Fellows Program Fund in the School of Social Work...........10,000
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Music.............................14,000
Rudy Ghandour, Los Angeles, California
for reset rch in the Medical School.............................25,000
Patricia M. Glover, Phoenix, Arizona
for the Patricia Mae Glover Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......200,199
Carroll J. Haas Foundation, Mendon
for the Ca rroll J. Haas Endowment.............................25,000
William and Valerie Hall Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Business Administration.....................25,000
Horning for Michigan. Regent, Grand Haven
for Academic Center in the Department of Athletics......................10,000
David A. Henwood, Safety Harhor, Florida
3,000 shares of Raymond James Financial, Inc., common stock
for the David A. Henwood Charitable Gift Annuit for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Business Administration...........................113,820
Clark Hill PLC, Detroit
for WUOM......................................12,410
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering..........................15,000
Insight Insurance Services, Inc., Geneva, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, California
for support in. the College of Engineering..........................10,000
Japan Foundation, Newv York, Newv York
-for resea rch in the GeralId R. Ford School of Public Polic y...................32,730
Jentes Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the -Law School..................13,838
Robert Wood Johnson Founda tion, Princeton, New Jersey
for resea rch in the -Institite for Social -Research........................36,437
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, Nexv York, Nexv York
for researc'h in the Medical School............................375,075
237




April Meeting, 2004


William A. Kaufman Estate
for the Allan Lewis Kaufman Memorial Award Fund and
the William Allan Lewis Kaufman Scholarship and Loan Fund in the Law School.............. 2,283,650
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Institute for Social Research and
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 136,602
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................. 14,852
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program......................................... 1,000,000
James A. and Faith Knight Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................ 20,000
Frederick Leonberger Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Frederick J. Leonberger Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................. 150,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Livingston Award for Young Journalists in the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program....... 40,625
Virginia C. Livingston, West Layfayette, Indiana
for the Martha Cook Building Fund................................................. 10,000
Marsal Family Foundation, Rye, New York
for the Marsal Family Foundation Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics............... 20,000
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
6,000 shares of Gillette Company common stock
for the Depression Center Construction Fund in the Medical School........................... 230,280
Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway, New Jersey
for the support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts................. 28,000
Richard J. Metzler, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Dean's Fund for New Initiatives in Research and
other support in the School of Business Administration.................................... 100,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research in the College of Engineering.......................................... 20,000
Werner and Ruth Nartel Foundation, Flint
for the Nartel Family Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 30,000
National Academy of Education, Washington, DC
for support in the Institute for Social Research............................................ 25,000
Ray E. Newton, Jr., Village of Golf, Florida
11,880 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Newton Family Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............................. 503,947
Nobel Biocare, Gothenburg, Sweden
for the Center for Excellence Fund in the School of Dentistry.................................. 50,000
Paul J. Nutter Estate
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 186,738
O'Conner Family Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in the College of Engineering........... 500,000
Eugenia M. Oole Estate
for support in the School of Art and Design and
for the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies................................... 30,203
Aline Underhill Orten Foundation, Inc., Eastpointe
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women................................. 15,000
Ovarian Cancer Research Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 100,000
Parsons Family Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................................. 10,000
Henry Patton Estate
for the Henry Patton Endowed Scholarship and Fellowship Fund at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn........................................... 3,611,121
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for WFUM and WUOM............................................................. 27,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the College of Engineering.......................................  15,000
PFK Family Foundation, Bridgewater, Illinois
for the University Hospital Child and Family Life Gift Fund in memory of Clelia Grace Sanchez..... 10,000
Poppy Family Trust
10,000 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the James and Martha Chandler Poppy Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Art and Design......................................................  600,000
Gerald T. Powers, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Class of 1978 Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.............................. 10,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.......................................................16,508
238




'April Meeting 2004


Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 287,500
Prostate Cancer Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 200,000
Research and Education Foundation for the American Association for the Surgery of Trauma, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 20,000
The Greg Richards, Larry Polatsch, Scott Weingard Memorial Fund, New York, New York
for the Greg Richards, Larry Polatsch and Scott Weingard Memorial Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................  250,000
Frances Rodgers Estate
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer C e  n    te     r........................................... 15,000
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for support in the Department of At       h       l   e      t    i   c      s................................................. 25,000
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California,
for support in. the Department of Athletics................................................. 30,000
Sallie Mae Fund, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 23,832
Schloss Foundation, New York, New York
for the Sarpedoneum Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 25,000
Jeffrey Seller, New York, New York
for the Extracurricular Success Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 17,600
Ching ju Wang Sheu, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Ching j u Wang Sheu Graduate Student Fellowship in. the College of Pharmacy............. 180,000
Emmanuel I. Sillman Estate
for the Biological Station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 14,566
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research at the University of Michigan.............................................. 1160,541
William T. Smith, Jr., Estate
for support in the School of Information................................................... 12,000
Irving and Carol Smokler Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Community Foundation of South Palm Beach
County, Boca Raton, Florida
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 50,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education................................................... 40,700
Toyota Central R&D Labs, Inc., Nagakute, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 12,400
Toyota Motor Corporation, Aichi, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 50,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska,
for the Union. Pacific MBA Scholarship and other support in the School of Business Administration... 30,000
University of Michigan Alumni of Orange County, Orange, California
for the Jim Waterman. Scholarship Fund................................................... 25,000
Vera A. Voyles, Nutrioso, Arizona
for the Robert and Heather Urich Research and Patient Care Endowment Fund in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Leo R. Voyles.10,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and
for the Wege -Foundation Environmental Policy Gift Fund in
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................................... 104,500
Deborah L. WNeinberg, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the S. Martin Lindenauer Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School.................... 112,000
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........................ 10,000
WPW, III Capital Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowved Professorship in
the School of Business Administration and
for the Class of 1952 Scholarship in the College of Engineering................................ 25,000
Zarb Family Fund, Laurel Hollow, New York
for the building fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................. 25,000
Non-Monetary Gifts-In-Kind $5,000 and Over:
Robert M. Baer, I iallandale, Florida
one sofa, four chairs, and a loveseat and freight charges for the Department of Athletics
JIohn B. Cameron, Iochester
the Cameron Archives of French Medieval Architecture Images with related indexes for
the -University Library
Cattermole Books. Newbuiry Ohio
262 children books by British authors for the University Library
239




April Meeting, 2004


Kempf Hogan, Birmingham
a sculpture by Michael Hall for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
International Business Machines Corporation, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
equipment for the University of Michigan
Barbara E. Lewandowski, Shoreline, Washington
a collection of George A. Zientowski, Jr., film and Broadway recordings, books, and other
related materials for the University Library
Karyn A. Lewandowski, Seattle, Washington
a collection of George A. Zientowski, Jr., film and Broadway recordings, books, and other
related materials for the University Library
Patricia Orton Spurr, Austin, Texas
a collection of Asian art work for the Henry Jewett Memorial Collection for the Museum of Art
Carl R. Withers, Beachwood, Ohio
three photomurals by Margaret Bourke-White for the Museum of Art
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 were received from the following
donors:


Harriett & Bryce Alpern Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
American Institute of Steel Construction, Chicago,
Illinois
American Standard Foundation, Piscataway, New Jersey
Anonymous Donor
Ralph B. Baldwin, Naples, Florida
Arthur R. Block, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Joseph G. Bonnell, Royal Oak
Borg-Warner Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Breece Family Charitable Fund, Southeastern,
Pennsylvania
Thomas A. Buhr, Ann Arbor
Calypso Medical Technologies, Inc., Seattle,
Washington
Carbomedics, Inc., Austin, Texas
Lloyd H. Carr, Ann Arbor
Computer Associates International, Inc., Hauppauge,
New York
Michael Comrie, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
CVS Charitable Lead Trust, Inc., Woonsocket, Rhode
Island
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
Michael C. DiGiovanni, Farmington Hills
Gunter Dufey Trust of the Fidelity Investments
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
Elastizell Corporation of America, Ann Arbor
Irene M. Esteves, Boston, Massachusetts
John A. Feldenzer, Roanoke, Virginia
Steven Fishman, Detroit
Ann F. and James W. Ford Fund of the Fidelity
Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts
Gordon B. Fox, Palos Verdes Estates, California
GenCorp Foundation, Inc., Folsom, California
Kalvin M. Grove, St. Petersburg, Florida
Cornelia W. Hamilton, West Hartford, Connecticut
Health Promotion & Wellness Council of Michigan,
Sylvan Lake
Daniel J. Hennessy, Lake Forest, Illinois
Gertrude V. Huebner, Ann Arbor
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Steven R. Kalt, Bloomfield Hills
Dayle H. and Michael Katz Foundation, Great Neck,
New York
W. Henry Koivunen, Livonia


Lowe's Charitable and Educational Foundation, North
Wilkesboro, North Carolina
Lutheran Community Foundation, Minneapolis,
Minnesota
Curtis L. Mack, Atlanta, Georgia
Marathon Ashland Petroleum, LLC, Findlay, Ohio
Masco Cororpation, Taylor
Paul E. McCracken, Jr., Fort Worth, Texas
Midwest Society of Organizational Learning, Grosse
Point Shores
Marian E. Moore Estate
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
Pentastar Aviation, LLC, Waterford
Lisa M. Peters, Birmingham
Piety Hill Chapter 4-044 MI, Daughters of the American
Revolution, Birmingham
Plante & Moran, PLLC, Southfield
Elizabeth A. Ploghoft, Fort Gratiot
Pryor Foundation, Windsor, Connecticut
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
Roche Laboratories, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
Rosebud Foundation, Dexter
Tadd & Nancy Seitz Fund of the Ayco Charitable
Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
Solvay Pharmaceuticals, Marietta, California
James H. M. Sprayegen, Glencoe, Illinois
Marsha Sugarman, Brookline, Massachusetts
Anne Thompson-Visser, Indian Wells, California
Robert A. Toigo Foundation, Oakland, California
Trotman Family Charitable Fund of the Vanguard
Charitable Endowment Program,
Southeastern, Pennsylvania
Alston K. Twiss Family Charitable Fund of the
Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program,
Southeastern, Pennsylvania
Union Pacific Railroad, Omaha, Nebraska
Unity Semiconductor Corporation, Sunnyvale, California
UPS Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett LLP, Grand
Rapids
Margaret Waterman Alumnae Group, Ann Arbor
Gerald A. Weber, Chicago, Illinois
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish
Communal Fund, New York,
New York
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., Houston, Texas
Georcetta Ann Wolf. Huntinston Beach. California


240




nApril Meeting, 2004


Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
He called attention to the recommended appointment of Philip Hanlon as associate
provost for academic and budgetary affairs.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS
WITH TENURE
EJfective on the dates indicated
Britton, Steven L., Ph.D., Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, with tenure, and Professor
of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, Medical School, April 22, 2004
Mobley, Harry L.T., Ph.D., Frederick G. Novy Collegiate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology,
Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, and Chair, Department of Microbiology and
Immunology, Medical School, July 1, 2004
Smith, Janet L., Ph.D., Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, July 1, 2004
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Janz, Nancy K., Interim Co-Chair, Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of
Public Health, May 1-December 31, 2004
Lotfi, Vahid, Associate Provost, Office of the Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs,
Univeristy of Michigan-Flint, July 1, 2004-June 30,2009
Wade, Kathleen, Assistant Dean of Hospital Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Zimmerman, Marc, Interim Co-Chair, Department of Health Behavior and Health Education, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 1-December 31, 2004
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adriaens, Peter, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
also appointed Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, without tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, April 1, 2004
Faeth, Gerard M., Arthur B. Modine Professor of Aerospace Engineering and Professor of Aerospace
Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure,
College of Engineering, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Gianchandani, Yogesh B., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Kaufman, Randal J., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Internal
Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, April 1, 2004
Kotov, Nicholas, Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, March 1, 2004-May 31, 2006, and Associate
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
February 19, 2004-May 31, 2007
Larson, Ronald G., George Granger Brown Professor of Chemical Engineering, Chair, Department of
Chemical Engineering, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, and Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, also appointed Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure,
College of Engineering, March 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Li, Victor, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
February 19, 2004-May 31, 2007
Markel, Howard, Professor of History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health, and George
E. Wantz Professor of the History of Medicine and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School,
April 1, 2004


241




April Meeting, 2004


Semrau, Jeremy, Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, also appointed Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, without
tenure, School of Natural Resources and Environment, April 1, 2004
Simeone, Diane M., Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor of
Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, Medical School, April 1, 2004
Sun, Jing, Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, without tenure, also
appointed Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure,
College of Engineering, March 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Welage, Lynda S., Associate Professor of Clinical Sciences, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean
for Academic Affairs, College of Pharmacy, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
LEAVE OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective June 1, 2004-May 30, 2006
Dutta, Dabasish, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
intergovernmental leave beyond one year
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Reappointments to Named Professorships
Bhattacharya, Pallab K., James R. Mellor Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Kerr, Philip, Claribel Baird Halstead Professor, School of Music, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Larson, Ronald G., George Granger Brown Professor of Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Steel, Duncan G., Peter S. Fuss Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Reappointment to Endowed Professorship
Todd, Robert F., III., Frances and Victor Ginsberg Professor of Hematology/Oncology, Medical School,
May 1, 2004-April 30 2009
Other Transactions
England, Anthony W., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Engineering,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Gassel, Robert K., Assistant Vice Chancellor for Finance and Director of Financial Services and Budget,
UM-Dearborn, May 1, 2004-April 30, 2007
Hanlon, Philip J., Associate Provost for Academic and Budgetary Affairs, Office of the Provost and
Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Henry, Carole S., Director of University Housing and Assistant Vice President for Student Affairs,
June 1, 2004
Hilton, Robert Lance, Chair, Army Officer Education Program, June 22, 2004-June 21, 2007
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics
Koopmann, Charles F., Jr., July 1, 2004-June 7, 2007, vice Barbara A. MacAdam, term expired
Root, Lawrence, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice Mojtaba Navvab, term expired
Clements Library Committee of fanagenent
McCorison, Marcus, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
White, B. Joseph, March 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Robert Warner, unable to complete term
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Pollock, Tresa M., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2008, vice Linda M. Abriola, term expired
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy Executive Committee
Charles, Kerwin K., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice John E. DiNardo, term expired
242




April Meeting, 2004


Danziger, Sheldon H., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Elisabeth R. Gerber, term expired
College of Pharnacy Executive Committee
Sherman, David H., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice Ronald W. Woodard, term expired
School of ocial Work Executive Committee
Ruffolo, Mary C., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006, vice Ruth E. Dunkle, term expired
Personlnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Beatty, Joy E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of
Management, September 1, 2004-April 30, 2007
Brown, Joseph W., Ph.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, School
of Public Health, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Burnstein, James S., M.A., Lecturer III in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science and the
Arts, September 1, 2004 to May 31, 2007
Chen, Xian, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
March 7, 2004-February 28, 2006
Groenhout, Celia J., M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, February 25-August 31, 2004
Luker, Gary D., M.D., Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, Medical School, April 1, 2004-March 31, 2005
Michele, Daniel E., Ph.D., Lecturer in Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Medical School,
February 28, 2004-February 28, 2006
Myers, Martin G., Jr., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
March 15, 2004-March 14, 2007
Nikiforov, Mikhail A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Dermatology, Medical School,
March 1, 2004-February 28, 2007
Sfeir-Younis, Luis F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
May 1-June 30, 2004
Smith, J.E. Castle, B.S., Assistant Professor of Aerospace Studies, Air Force Education Program,
August 5, 2002-July 31, 2005
Yang, Lynda J.S., M.D., Lecturer in Neurosurgery, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Case, Beau D., Lecturer II in Classical Studies also appointed Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and
Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2004
Davis, Matthew M., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, also appointed Assistant Professor of Public
Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
Murdoch-Kinch, Carol A., from Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, Department of Oral Medicine,
Pathology, and Oncology, to Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, Department of Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Dentistry, January 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Regal, Randolph E., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of
Pharmacy, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Simon, Carl P., from Professor of Economics, without tenure, and Professor of Mathematics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy, to Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy,
May 31, 2001
Underwood, Willie, III., from Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology Surgery, Medical
School, March 1-June 30, 2004


243




April Meeting, 2004


ADMINISTRAT IVEY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
D'Amato, Constance J., Assistant Professor Emerita of Neurobiology, Medical School,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2005
Lockery, Shirley A., Associate Professor Emerita of Social Work, School of Social Work,
February 15-December 31, 2004
To, Cho-Yee, Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, January 1-December 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Al-Hashimi, Hashim M., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave, January 19-May 31, 2004
Bailey, Charles W., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Barber, James R., Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, and
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
extended sick leave, February 5-22, 2004
Federbush, Paul G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1, 2003-May 31, 2004
Filbrun, Amy G., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, child
care leave, March 5-March 12, 2004
Hesseltine, Douglas H., Lecturer in Art, School of Art and Design, extended sick leave,
March 1-August 31, 2004
Kannatey-Asibu, Elijah, Jr., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Kaviany, Massoud, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Kelly, Raymond C., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 2004
Morley, Helen J., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2002-May 31, 2004
Patel, Smita, Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, extended sick leave,
October 31-December 17, 2003
Rodriguez, Maira M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry, family medical
leave, March 1-May 22, 2004
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, Mary Frances Berry Collegiate Professor of History and American Culture,
Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, and Professor of
American Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
January 1-May 31, 2004
Snyder, James C., Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2002-December 31, 2003
Wineman, Alan S., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES         TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Brown, Morton, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2002-December 31, 2003 (previously reported as September
1-December 31, 2002)
Chelser, Mark, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement
furlough, January 1, 2003-May 31, 2004 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 2003)
CANCELLATION OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCE G-RANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Swift, Dan J., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Science,
and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2004


244




April Meeting, 2004


TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resi     i    ssisssgned
Bush, Phillip, Assistant Professor of Music (Piano), School of Music, May 31, 2004
Bybee, Lauretta V., Assistant Professor of Music (Voice), School of Music, May 31, 2004
Byosiere, Philippe H. R., Associate Professor of Management, without tenure, UM-Flint School of
Management, February 29, 2004
Clay, Michael A., Lecturer in Management, U-M Dearborn School of Management, December 31, 2003
Collins, Francis S., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Human Genetics,
without tenure, Medical School, December 15, 2003
Nettles, Michael, Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, May 31, 2004
Snow, Sandra L., Associate Professor of Music (Music Education), without tenure, School of Music,
May 31, 2004
Somerville, Rachel S., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2003
Sondak, Vernon K., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, April 4, 2004
Retired
Allen, Richard L., Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2004
Bergstrom, Terry J., Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with tenure, Medical School,
April 30, 2004
Bronstein, Paul M., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
December 31, 2003
Campbell, Carolyn, Lecturer in Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services, May 31, 2004
Carr, Robert I., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2004
Crawford, Richard A., Hans T. David Distinguished University Professor of Musicology and Professor
of Music (Musicology), with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2004
Darnell, Richard E., Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, June 30, 2004
Gibala, Ronald, L.H. and F.E. Vanvlack Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and Professor of
Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2004
Kamisar, Yale, Clarence Darrow Distinguished University Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with
tenure, Law School, May 31, 2004
Kelly, Raymond C., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Kren, Robert M., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31, 2004
Snyder, James C., Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, May 31, 2004
Term Completed
Debold, Vicky P., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31, 2003
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted one retirement memoir.
Paul M. Bronstein, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the College of Arts and
Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 2003.
Professor Bronstein received his B.A. degree from The City College of New York
in 1965, his M.A. degree from Miami University in 1966, and his Ph.D. degree from
Rutgers University in 1971. He taught at Brooklyn College from 1971-76, Trenton State
College from 1976-81, and Rutgers University from 1980-81. Professor Bronstein
joined the University of Michigan-Flint faculty as an assistant professor in 1981 and was
promoted to associate professor in 1983 and professor in 1989.
Professor Bronstein's research interests focused on the areas of behavioral biology
and ecology and comparative and experimental psychology; his recent work involved


245




April Meeting, 2004


studying the conditioning paradigm in the Siamese fighting fish, Betta splendens. He
has published extensively, including several papers co-authored with undergraduate
students working under his supervision.  Professor Bomstein served as visiting
researcher at the University College of Swansea, the University of Parma, and the
Laboratory of Animal Behavior in Nouzilly, France. He was elected a fellow of the
American Psychological Association and the International Society for Research on
Aggression, and from 1988-92 he served on the editorial board of the Journal of
Comparative Psychology.
Among the wide range of courses Professor Bronstein taught were introductory
psychology, animal behavior, developmental and     experimental psychology,
neuropsychology, sociobiology, and psychopharmacology. His extensive University
service includes membership and leadership on the Academic Standards Committee, the
Scientific Equipment Committee, the Scholarship and Financial Aid Committee, and the
Research Advisory Committee, among others.
The Regents now salute this distinguished psychology educator for his dedicated
service by naming Paul M. Bronstein professor emeritus of psychology.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for Eugene
H. Studier, professor of biology at the University of Michigan-Flint.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on March 27, 2004, of Eugene H. Studier, professor of biology, College of
Arts and Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint.
Professor Studier was born in Dubuque, Iowa on March 16, 1940. He received his
B.S. degree in biology and chemistry in 1962 from the University of Dubuque and his
Ph.D. degree in zoology and biochemistry in 1965 from the University of Arizona. From
1965-72, he taught at New Mexico Highlands University, where he directed the thesis
work of 17 graduate students. Professor Studier joined the University of Michigan-Flint
faculty as an associate professor in 1972 and was promoted to professor in 1974.
Often referred to fondly as "Doc," Professor Studier was instrumental in developing
the biology curriculum during a period of major growth in the department. He served as
department chair from 1978-85 and from 1994-2000, and he was also the impetus in
creating the Master of Science in Biology degree program in 2000. Professor Studier
served as the director of the degree program and provided the motivating force for its
development. He also contributed his talents to fourteen departmental and university
committees. In recognition of his excellence in teaching, research, and service, Professor
Studier was awarded the David M. French Distinguished Professor Award, which is the
highest honor given to faculty by the University of Michigan-Flint.
Professor Studier's expertise in the study of bats earned him the nickname
"Batman." His research was widely known and focused on all aspects of bat biology.
During his 42 years of academic service he published more than 80 articles in refereed
journals and several book chapters, and he presented at numerous meetings and
conferences.
Professor Studier was dearly loved and respected by all of his students, colleagues,
and friends within the University. His untimely passing has left a cavernous hole in the
fabric of his department and the entire University, and he will be greatly missed. As we
mourn the loss of this great scholar, teacher, and advisor, our condolences go to his
wife, Ann; his children David, Scott, Robb and wife Carrie, and Hollie and husband
John Jacobs; and his grandchildren.
246




nApril Meeting, 2004


Degrees. Provost Courant submitted for approval of the doctoral degree list for
the April 30, 2004 commencement, the final degree list for the December 2003 Law
School commencement, and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Financial Statements and Reports Pursuant to Federal Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-133
The Regents received the reports on federal awards in accordance with OMB
Circular A-133 for the year ended June 30, 2003.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report of the
Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan for the
Year Ended June 30, 2003
The Regents received supplemental information to the certified audited financial
report of the Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan
for the year ended June 30, 2003.
WUOM/WVGR/IWFUM-FM and WFUM-TV Statements of Support, Revenue and
Expenditures for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003
The Regents received statements of support, revenue and expenditures for WUOM/
WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003.
Audited Financial Reports for W-UOM/WVGR/WF-UM-FM       and WFUM-TV for
the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2003
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the public broadcasting audits for the fiscal year ended June 30,
2003.
Absolute Return Investment
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved Kayne Anderson Capital Investment Partners as an absolute return
investment manager, with an initial funding of up to $60 million.
Emerging Markets Equities
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
approved the appointment of Blakeney Management Limited as an emerging markets
equities manager, with initial funding of up to $40 million.
20 Acres of Vacant Land in Barry County, Middleville, Michigan
Vice President Rudgers reported that Michigan Radio station WVGR had been
required to vacate leased tower space in the Grand Rapids area and thus needed to secure
space to construct its own tower. The property in Barry County will be used for this
purpose.


247




April Meeting, 2004


On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved acquisition of the property in Barry County, Middleville,
Michigan, at a price of $262,364.
WVGR Radio Tower Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the WVGR Radio Tower Project as described in the Regents
Communication and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding contracts,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Athletic Department Academic Center
Executive Vice President Slottow called on Associate Athletic Director Megan
McCallister, who described the intended programmatic uses for the Academic Center.
She noted that several University academic support programs would have satellite offices
in the Academic Center, including the Sweetland Writing Center, the Office of Career
Planning and Placement, and the math laboratory. Classroom space would be provided
for the Division of Kinesiology and for humanities classes and other disciplines as usage
patterns evolve.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Athletic Department Academic Center Project for
bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Art and Architecture Building 1st and 2nd Floor Renovations
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Art and Architecture First and Second Floor Renovations
Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
North Campus Diag Stormwater Control
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that this project is part of the storm
water management system approved by the Regents in May 2003, and it will expand the
underground piping collection system to collect and manage about 91 acres of storm water
run-off through the new detention basin. Associate Vice President Henry Baier displayed
a map illustrating the area covered by the project and showed the distribution system and
North Campus Chiller Project. Rather than address the storm water management needs
site-by-site, the University has chosen to address it in a more comprehensive fashion that
will allow for future needs as the number of buildings on North Campus increases. The
project is beneficial to the environment, as it provides for collection of sediment, prevents
erosion downstream, and increases the capacity of the overall system in that area. As
compared to individual chillers, this central approach is predicted to reduce costs by
approximately $900,000 in initial capital, and by 2010 there will be approximately
$400,000 in savings annually.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the North Campus Diag Stormwater Control Project as


248




Ap ril Meeting, 2004


described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Medical School Magnetic Resonance Imaging Research
Scanner
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Magnetic Resonance Imaging Research Scanner Project as
described and authorized commissioning the architectural firm of Ann Arbor Architects
Collaborative for its design and issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Depression
Center and Ambulatory Psychiatry (Building naming)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, and in recognition
of a generous gift from Mr. and Mrs. Edwin E. Meader, the Regents unanimously
approved naming the facility that will house the new Depression Center the Rachel
Upjohn Building.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Depression
Center and Ambulatory Psychiatry (Schematic Design)
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that the originally proposed budget had
been increased from $38 million to $41 million to allow for the addition of 6,000 gross
square feet to the facility. The budget includes $5.5 million for site infrastructure
improvements, which will be used for preservation of the wetland and preservation of a
ridge on the site to allow for future development. The University will replace the existing
sewage system with a gravity system and will work with the county and township to move
the access road. Additional parking spaces are included in the project, and bioswales will
be created within the parking system to aid in the collection of storm water runoff. These
site infrastructure improvements will benefit current and future projects.
Associate Vice President Baier introduced Scott Haywood of Albert Kahn and
Associates to present the schematic design.  Executive Vice President Slottow
recognized that Dr. John Greden, chair of the Department of Psychiatry, who had been
leading fundraising, design, and programming for this project, was present to respond to
questions.
Mr. Haywood commented that the building was envisioned as representing the
antithesis of depression and will be filled with light, an opposite image for what one
might associate with depression. He displayed renderings of the building and noted that
it would have an open and inviting feel and would create a healing environment. The
building was envisioned as one that would reflect the architecture on the existing
campus, that would be responsive to the natural setting, and that would express the
unique purpose of the facility.
He then displayed and described the floor plans for the building and noted that the
first floor would contain the clinic spaces and the second floor would include the
research components. An auditorium and conference center will be located in the
garden level.


249




April Meeting, 2004


On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the revised budget and the schematic design as presented for the
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Depression Center and
Ambulatory Psychiatry Project and authorized issuing the infrastructure improvements
package for bids and awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 6 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded
by Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Purchasing Contract with Clark-MXR
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with Clark MXR for maintenance and
repair of equipment owned by the College of Engineering. Because Gerard Mourou is a
University employee and also is a stockholder and board member of Clark MXR, this
purchasing contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its College of
Engineering and Clark MXR.
2.   The goods and service provided are parts and repair. The cost for the service visit is
an estimated cost until the service is actually performed. Approval is requested for an
amount not to exceed $5,700.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Gerard Mourou, a University of
Michigan employee, is a stockholder and board member of Clark MXR.
Approval of Payment for Latinos Unidos, Inc.
The Regents approved payment by the Department of Clinical Radiology Research
to Latinos Unidos, Inc. for the department's participation in Festival Latino 2003 which
allowed the department to conduct recruitment activities among the Latino population.
Because Maria Angeles Militzer is both a University of Michigan employee and
co-founder and board member of Latinos Unidos, Inc., this agreement falls under the State
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Clinical Radiology Research and Latinos Unidos, Inc.
2.   The service provided was participation in a festival that provided outreach to the
Latino population at a total cost of $500.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Maria Angeles Militzer, a University of
Michigan employee, is co-founder and board member of Latinos Unidos, Inc.
Approval of Payment for Meridian Productions
The Regents approved payment by the Office of Student Publications for services
provided by Meridian Productions. Because the sole owner of Meridian Productions,
Robert Demilner, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Office
of Student Publications and Meridian Productions.


250




April Meeting, 2004


2.   The service provided was video editing services at a total cost of $2,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Robert Demilner, University of
Michigan employee, is sole owner of Meridian Productions.
Purchasing Contract with Patricia Olynyk
The Regents approved a purchasing contract that would allow the Life Sciences
Institute to purchase a piece of artwork entitled "Duality of Opposites III." Because the
artist/owner of the artwork, Patricia Olynyk, is also a University of Michigan employee,
this purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements.
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Life
Sciences Institute and Patricia Olynyk.
2.   The product provided is a piece of artwork for a total dollar amount of $2,740.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Patricia Olynyk, a University of
Michigan employee, is an independent contractor from whom the purchase was made.
Membership Agreement between the Center for Wireless Integrated Microsystems
(WIMS) at the University of Michigan and Discera
The Regents approved an agreement which allows the company Discera to enter into
a consortium membership in the WIMS Center. Because Dr. Clark T.C. Nguyen, the
founder of Discera, who is also a member of its technical advisory board, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and it's Center
for Wireless Integrated Microsystems (WIMS) and Discera.
2.   The partnership agreement conforms to University policy.  It has no specific
deliverables unique to Discera.
3.   Dr. Nguyen's pecuniary interest arises from his affiliation with Discera.
Subcontract Agreement between the Regents of the University of Michigan and
T/J Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and T/J Technologies, Inc. ("T/J") for funding of a research project at the University of
Michigan. Because Dr. Levi Thompson, Jr., is a majority shareholder in T/J and a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and T/J
Technologies, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is one (1) year and the amount of funding support is $30,000. Since
research agreements are often amended, the subcontract includes provisions for
changes in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval
of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Levi Thompson, Jr.'s pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of T/J. He will not
be involved in the project at the University of Michigan.


251




April Meeting, 2004


Change in Name of Center for Engineering Education and Practice at University
of Michigan-Dearborn
The Regents were informed that in recognition of Henry W. Patton's generous
support of the College of Engineering and Computer Science's research and partnerships
with industry, the University of Michigan-Dearborn will change the name of the Center
for Engineering Education and Practice to the Henry W. Patton II Center for Engineering
Education and Practice.
University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) Washtenaw Community Health
Organization (WCHO) Appointments and Reappointment to the WCHO Board of
Directors
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the following appointments to the WCHO board of directors: Mr.
Donald Anderson (new appointment to complete the appointment of another consumer),
Mr. Gene Brown (new appointment), and Mr. Michael Dabbs (reappointment).
2004-05 Residence Halls and Family Housing Rates
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved average rate increases of 4.9% for residence hall room and board
and 4.7% for family housing apartment rentals, according to the schedule in the Regents
Communication.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:40 p.m. The next
meeting will be held May 20, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


252




April Meeting, 2004 - Index


APRIL MEETING, 2004
APPENDIX
Future Directions: Shaping the Michigan Difference
President Mary Sue Coleman
April 22, 2004
Good afternoon.
I want to welcome the deans, faculty members, staff, and students who have joined
us. Today, I am looking forward to introducing several aspirations and initiatives for
the future direction of our University.
Every university president encounters the need to balance an ongoing agenda with
new priorities that, combined, will shape the future of the institution. In my two
presidencies, I have learned that sometimes the issues choose the president, but at other
times, the president can choose the issues she wants to advance.
When I arrived on campus twenty months ago, we faced some monumental events
that affected not only the University, but the entire nation.
Last year, we dealt with opportunities and challenges that many universities do
not encounter within a single decade, or sometimes, ever.
I have watched the great monuments of our architecture come back to life this
semester, with the reopening of Hill Auditorium and the Rackham Building. We have
launched the ambitious Life Sciences Institute. We overcame the investigation into our
former basketball program with the triumph of the championship at the National
Invitation Tournament. And, we had the great privilege of learning how it feels to win
landmark decisions at the Supreme Court of the United States.
I could not have led this University successfully through the critical final stages of
those achievements without the help of many of you in this room, and I thank you for
your wisdom and your support throughout these months, which have been so
memorable for me and historic for the University.
But now it is time to move forward.
I want to ask our campus community to work with me to focus on the future of the
University. It is now my opportunity to turn our energy to the agenda that we choose as
leaders of this great institution. I will ask our campuses to devote much of the next
academic year to developing the initial blueprint I am sharing with you today.
There are two reasons it is critical to begin this process now.
The first is the budget situation we have been facing. We know how serious the
continued loss of state funding has been, and we established the protection of our core
academic activities as our guiding principle, so that we will emerge with our excellence
intact and even strengthened.
Budgetary constraints do not callfor timid measures, butfor wise action.


253




April Meeting, 2004 - Index


On a second front, we will continue to pursue a host of long-range ambitions as
we launch the public phase of our comprehensive capital campaign next month.
Private giving will animate our vision and goals, in every campus unit and collectively
for the institution.
We will focus on the difference our University will make in the future - as it has
made for almost two centuries - both on the lives of our students and in the world
beyond our campuses. Appropriately, we will title the campaign "The Michigan
Difference."
In conjunction with this campaign, and the future it will help us realize, we are
shaping the guiding direction for the University that will deepen impact of the Michigan
Difference in the next decades and beyond.
Today, I will outline several aspirations and initiatives I am presenting to our
campuses to explore and develop. These ideas have evolved as I have immersed myself
in the extraordinary life of our University.
I am confident that you share my commitment to a rededicated effort to sustain
and elevate the character that makes this institution unique.
Our Aspirations - Defining the Great Public University of the Knowledge Age
Our university, of course, does not operate in isolation, but within a network of
other prestigious research universities, a state that supports us, and a world that
depends on our graduates and our discoveries.
We live in a world characterized by a whirlwind of dynamic change.
We are confronted with a ubiquitous and overwhelming rush of information.
The new economy has shifted the emphasis from manufacturing to knowledge.
Our new global society - social, political, economic and cultural - compels us to
recognize a teeming variety of values and perspectives.
Technology continues to fulfill its astonishing promise - yet becomes increasingly
more challenging.
Our environment is imperiled whenever society avoids accepting responsibility for
global sustainability.
And in the middle of this complexity, we seem to be losing our ethical compass as
we attempt to navigate the swirling rapids of these issues.
Because of these shifts in the social and technological landscape, the frontiers of
knowledge are expanding dramatically. Exciting new spheres of thought are emerging
and new forms of intellectual engagement are made possible by the connectivity of
information technology.
The single laboratory and the solitary scholar are often supplemented by
collaborative endeavors. Academic discoveries will emerge from the intersection of our
disciplines and will be more intertwined with the world we inhabit and serve.


254




April Meeting, 2004 - Index


These are groundbreaking and often breathtaking challenges. The truly great
university of tomorrow will meet them head-on.
It will mobilize its resources to address the constantly changing needs of society -
and to push the boundaries of our understanding. The great strengths of the University
of Michigan prepare it especially well to enhance its academic leadership and to
engage its public mission even more profoundly over the next century.
This University is characterized by world-class programs across a broad range of
disciplines. Our academic reputation blazes across the globe - and even beyond, with
our alumni who have traveled to the Moon.
Dean Robert Dolan described this campus perfectly when he said that we have
nineteen schools and colleges at the top of their game.
In addition to the expertise that has created such outstanding academic units, I
believe our multi-disciplinary approach to scholarship is one of our most distinctive
hallmarks - we possess an academic culture that breaks through traditional
boundaries.
My goal is this:
The University of Michigan will continue to define the great public university of
the world. We will move Michigan to a new level of excellence by building on its
distinctive academic strengths while recognizing new areas of opportunity and societal
need.
We will expand the collaborative innovation that is our signature in a way that
reaches across traditional disciplines, into the classroom, and out into the world
around us.
I want to articulate a set of aspirations that will guide our future work. These are
shaped in part by our past and highlight the promise and commitment of our future.
I will use these guideposts in making decisions and determining the direction of
my administration in every area, from the continued development of our campus master
plan to the creation of special new initiatives.
I will ask each of our units, schools and colleges to use these principles to inform
theirfuture choices as well.
First: We will sustain academic excellence.
Above all else, we are committed to advancing the work and values of a brilliant
academic community. Academic excellence is never negotiable, even when we are
faced with short-term budgetary pressures.
In previous years, our commitment might have been an unspoken compact, but
today, we are dealing with external pressures that require us to assert, with determined
insistence, our pledge to maintain the highest level of academic quality.
We are a university that expects and demands bold intellectual engagement. We
will continue to recruit and retain the very bestfaculty and students.


255




April Meeting, 2004 - Index


And we must maintain the distinctive strength of our extraordinary staff who
provide the highly skilled effort that keeps our intellectual and physical infrastructure
so robust. We will never compromise on excellence.
Next: We will foster active engagement.
Tomorrow's great university certainly will not be an ivory tower. We must be
committed to translating our ideas into communication and action, with each other and
with the larger world -- challenging ourselves to address the vexing issues that our
global and local communities confront. We are called to support our society 's hopes,
development, and enrichment.
Whether we look at our work to develop a nationally prominent Depression Center
or our partnership with the state's life sciences initiatives, we will focus on addressing
societal needs and sparking a greater level of connectivity - inside and outside the
academy.
There are many areas our community can explore as we strive to become a more
actively engaged university. Here are a few examples:
* We must develop the infrastructure - technological and physical - to support
allforms of academic engagement by our faculty and students.
*  We have the opportunity to contribute in new and significant ways to economic
development. I have been speaking to business organizations on this issue,
and we must respond to their eagerness for increased interaction between our
academic units and regional leaders in business and industry.
"* I will ask our University how we might more effectively coordinate the
missions of Ann Arbor, Flint, and Dearborn through a three-campus strategy,
each with its own balance of regional engagement, while contributing to the
institution overall.
"* Also, we can expand our current international involvement in areas such
faculty leadership on global issues, study abroad programs, and on-campus
educational opportunities.
Third: We will build collaborative learning communities.
As we deal with multifaceted social problems, we find they often do not fit into the
discrete disciplines of academia.
In addition, we must prepare young people for the problem-solving, team-based
environment that they will encounter not only in the workplace, but as informed and
entrepreneurial citizens in a diverse democracy.


256




April Meeting, 2004 - Index


President Angell famously described the University of Michigan as providing an
"uncommon education."
I believe that the uncommon education we create in the information age must be
built upon interdisciplinary scholarship and team-based learning opportunities that are
supported with digital tools.
Across our teaching and research endeavors, we have a tremendous opportunity
to deploy our intellectual capital in new ways.
Here are a few of the areas I will ask our campus to explore as we consider how to
build more collaborative learning communities and encourage an even greater level of
scholarship across traditional boundaries:
* Although we have such a tremendous strength in interdisciplinary and
collaborative research, we have not done what we should to bring these
powerful approaches into our classrooms.   It is exciting to imagine
interdisciplinary teaching on a large scale, and Michigan is the place to do it.
* As we develop plans for residence hall renewal, how can we improve the
residential life experience so that ourfuture investments support the concept of
collaborative living and learning environments in a digital age? In order to
continue attracting the best and brightest students, we must have residence
hall renewal. But our decisions about design must go far beyond "wired"
versus "wireless" connectivity. Rather, our plans should address innovative
ways learning can occur and how a student community can best be supported.
* As you know, I believe that our next steps to enhance the life sciences at
Michigan will include expanding our approach and inviting dynamic new
collaborations. There is wide campus enthusiasm for joining the life sciences
more seamlessly to the other natural sciences, engineering, social sciences,
humanities, and the arts. In addition, we want to investigate opportunities that
might be possible by adding neuroscience as a new pillar of the life sciences at
the University.
As we aspire to sustain continued academic excellence, foster more active
engagement, and build collaborative learning communities - there is one more
fundamental commitment we must make if the University of Michigan will define the
great public university of the future:
We will create greater access to Michigan 's academic quality.
We must ensure access to the vast intellectual opportunity and knowledge this
great public university generates for the sake of the societies we serve, and for the
intellectual ecosystem that provides our academic distinction. A public university has
little value for our society if its resources are not accessible.
This will mean asking ourselves some tough questions.
* We need to know if there are financial barriers that place a Michigan
education out of reach for some academically qualified students, and how we
can lower those barriers. This discussion must include a significant study of


257




April Meeting, 2004 - Index


our financial aid programs - along with an emphasis on scholarship support
as a centerpiece of the upcoming capital campaign.
*  We personified the commitment to the principle of diversity in higher
education as we defended our use of affirmative action. Now we have to turn
inward to enhance our efforts in recruiting and retaining a campus community
- students, faculty, and staff - that reflects the full diversity of our nation, and
creates a campus that is truly and completely supportive of that diversity. We
are not there yet.
* As we consider ways to improve access to the University and its resources, I
want to develop ideas that will make the figurative concrete wall around our
academic community more permeable - too often, the public senses that our
walls are rock solid and impenetrable. For instance, I will encourage new
kinds of public arts programs, building on the successful model of the Royal
Shakespeare Company residencies, and I want to find new ways to provide the
business community with access to our many resources.
At our University, an infinite set of possibilities for research and learning will
emerge as we apply our ingenuity to these aspirations.
Presidential Initiatives
In addition to the ideas I will outline next, our Flint and Dearborn campuses will
pursue initiatives appropriate to their own agendas, led by Chancellors Juan Mestas
and Daniel Little.
I intend to engage the campus community broadly throughout the next year to
develop promising ideas, using these guideposts of sustained academic excellence,
active engagement, collaborative learning, and accessibility as a framework.
As a first step, I am introducing four presidential initiatives I will ask this campus
to pursue immediately. These ideas represent opportunities for our great public
university of the world to take on both societal and university challenges that reflect the
aspirations I have related today. These are not the only priorities the University will
explore, but the president's office has the opportunity to identify special programs that
complement the work happening across campus in the schools and colleges as we
sustain our excellence and deepen the Michigan Difference.
First, I want to: Support the development of multi-disciplinary paired courses
and other team-teaching initiatives across departments and colleges.
We will expand the effort to bring our interdisciplinary culture to the classroom
and to our research enterprise. To foster team-teaching, the Provost's office will
establish funds for sustained team-teaching efforts. Pairing together faculty from
divergent disciplines to design courses is an important way to engage our students in
the fresh ideas that are emerging from intersections of scholarly fields.
Our students will learn that each discipline is given to specific formulations of
issues that provide great insight - but that sometimes the deep focus of a discipline does
not always offer the broad insight that can emerge when viewed within the context of


258




April Meeting, 2004 - Index


other fields. Disciplines help us both to see and not to see; interdisciplinary teams help
us to see more widely.
The next two initiatives will carry into action our commitment to actively engage
our best minds in the significant social issues of the day. So, I will ask our campus to:
Explore the creation of a center for the study of ethical issues in the public domain.
In the past few years we have observed an almost cataclysmic decline in ethical
behavior in public life, ranging from corporate malfeasance to egregious acts in
college sports. I will ask a cross-disciplinary team offaculty members to assess faculty
interest and scholarly expertise regarding the examination of ethical issues facing
business, public policy-makers, cultural institutions, the sciences, and the media.
I want to know if we can build important and fresh research opportunities,
curriculum, and public engagement around issues of ethics in the public domain.
Next, we will take on another major social concern as we: Create a University of
Michigan prototype for new approaches to rational and affordable health care.
We enjoy a singular position of having a hospital, health care providers, an
insurance company, and health policy experts. With appropriate joint incentives, we
have the means to mount a broad, collaborative effort to fashion a prototype program,
testing the assumption that it is feasible to promote healthy living, contain health care
expenditures, and define optimal insurance coverage for individuals and families.
We can use those intellectual resources to help the nation in addressing the
growing crisis in health care. There are few current issues on which the University of
Michigan is better positioned to engage public discourse and provide national
leadership.
Also, we must: Renovate, reconnect, and expand residential life on campus,
Comprehensive planning is underway to expand and improve the residential
experience for students. This is an exciting opportunity to build collaborative and
innovative spaces that will employ technology, create better environments for student
living, and promote close connection between academic and residential life. We know
that the physical environment is a critical element that supports the academic
community and its excellence.
We have been engaged with groups of students, faculty, and administrators as we
consider our residential life options, and preliminary plans will be brought to the board
for thorough review and discussion in the fall term. Ongoing student involvement will
be very important as these plans unfold.
Conclusion
Today, I have shared a broad overview of our future direction. I am excited by its
promise, but it is just the first step. We face significant dilemmas in the short term. The
continuing state budget crisis, the troubling national trend of a 30-year erosion of state
support, and a highly competitive recruiting environment for the best faculty, staff and
students provide real challenges.


259




April Meeting, 2004 - Index


We will need to plan wisely as we prioritize our activities.
But a sound framework for future development will help our university with that
task as it crystallizes priorities and opportunities.
We will work together on how best to make these future aspirations reality.
Certainly, our alumni, friends, and donors want to be part of our success. I will askfor
their support for all the priorities identified by our schools and colleges for the capital
campaign.
Our donors will provide critical funding for student scholarships, for faculty
fellowships and chairs, for new and expanded programs, andfor the next generation of
facilities that will enhance our academic endeavors.
Support for the presidential initiatives will include funds donated to the
president's office for strategic uses along with other sources such as research grants.
And in the case of residence hall renewal, we will bring a funding plan to the Board of
Regents for consideration.
Today 's presentation is the first step into our future. I have laid out general
directions we can pursue - but we have a great deal of work to do as a campus.
I will appoint faculty, staff and students to cross-campus teams to explore all of
these ideas and others that will emerge in the next academic year. In addition, we will
encourage broad campus discussion of all these areas throughout the year. And we will
introduce a Website that will track our activities as we move ahead.
As I told you at the outset, sometimes issues choose a president, and sometimes a
president can choose her own issues. Every university must be ready to deal with
unexpected challenges, but today, I am setting this University on a course that will
sustain our tradition of being "leaders and best."
Thankyou.


260




MAY MEETING, 2004


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thurisday, May 20, 2004
The Regents convened at 1:30 p.m. in the Music Room, Henry Ford Estate - Fair
Lane, on the campus of the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Provost Courant, Vice President Harper,
Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice
President May, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President
and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Vice
President Rudgers was absent.
President Coleman called the meeting to order.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from David Boyle, alumnus, on various University
topics; and Peter Soppelsa and Jennifer Anderson, students and members of Our Voices
Count, on proposed changes to SAPAC. Public comment was continued at the end of the
meeting due to the late arrival of the speaker.
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman commented on the recent events marking the kickoff of the
"Michigan Difference" capital campaign and the launching of the Life Sciences Institute.
She also reported on recent accolades received by faculty members and on an upcoming
event on the Dearborn campus.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Health Psychology Program
Chancellor Little introduced Professor Richard Straub, associate professor of
psychology, who had been asked to describe his work in the area of health psychology
and outreach to the health care community in southeast Michigan. He noted that this is
one example among many activities on the Dearborn campus where the intellectual capital
of the campus is being brought to bear on pressing societal problems.
Professor Straub gave a presentation describing the nature and evolution of the
graduate program in health psychology, discussing the campus's emerging role as a
center for medical education and as a site for focusing the health care debate, and
describing some of the research partnerships being developed with local teaching
hospitals and medical residency programs.
2004-05 General Fund Budget Update
Provost Courant summarized the current status of development of the 2004-05
General Fund Budget. He noted that the University will have experienced a base budget
reduction of almost $43 million since the beginning of fiscal year 2003-04, with
additional one-time cuts of $29.1 million. In response to this total budget challenge of
261




$81.8 million, the 2003-04 budget had included expenditure reductions of $36.9 million
and revenue increases of $44.9 million. Expenditure reductions included elimination of
275 regular staff positions and 50 faculty positions, along with other reductions in a
variety of areas. Reductions were also achieved through operating efficiencies in business
processes, energy conservation, and other business and financial operations.
For 2004-05, the governor has recommended a 2% reduction in state
appropriation. This, combined with cost increases for continuing operations and other
commitments and essential initiatives, totals $50 million in additional budget challenges
that will have to be met. Some areas, however, will require additional expenditures,
such as the Admissions Office and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
which will require providing additional class sections to meet the demand. There are
also increased costs associated with compliance with government regulations in the
research enterprise. Provost Courant reported that $20 million in additional base
reductions in General Fund expenditures are being identified, including 120 regular
staff positions, 40 faculty positions, and other personnel cutbacks. Other examples of
expenditure reductions include elimination of the Office of Information Technology
Campus Initiatives and the Periodic Health Appraisal Unit and reduction of overtime
and shift differentials. There will be fewer course sections offered and selective
increases in class size, and the University Library will purchase fewer journal
subscriptions and monographs and will reduce service hours.
Provost Courant observed that historically, philanthropy has been essential to the
University's achieving and maintaining its status as one of the great public universities.
However, philanthropy cannot be expected to cover the essential activities of teaching
and learning and the essential infrastructure of classrooms, computers, wiring, and
wireless networks that are needed for the best quality of undergraduate education. Thus,
maintaining excellence requires both robust philanthropy and robust support from the
state. The goals for the Michigan Difference capital campaign were developed with
both in mind.
Regent Newman inquired about the impact on the budget of previously announced
changes in the staff benefits program and planned reductions in funding for student
services. Provost Courant responded that the benefits changes have been incorporated
into the cuts for the current fiscal year and the coming fiscal year. Although benefits
costs will increase in 2004-05, the previously enacted changes are resulting in savings
of $3 million over what would otherwise would have been spent.
Regarding possible cuts in the student affairs budget, Provost Courant stated that
no final decisions have yet been made in this area. The final budget will adhere to the
operating principle of minimizing the impact on students.  It was noted that the
concerns that recently have been expressed by students relate not to the current fiscal
year, but to anticipated cuts in the Division of Student Affairs that may be enacted for
2004-05. President Coleman emphasized that the magnitude of the budget cuts is such
that almost every unit is being affected in some way. Contractual obligations and
financial aid are the only two areas being held harmless.
Vice President Wilbanks commented that the University is hopeful that the state
will be able to meet its previously stated goals with respect to the University's budget,
but the situation is evolving and will need to be monitored closely.


262




Annual Promotions to the Ranks of Professor and Associate Professor
Provost Courant described the annual promotions review process. He reviewed the
dossiers of four faculty members as representative of the depth and range of promotion
recommendations: Mercedes Pascual, recommended for promotion to associate professor
of ecology and evolutionary biology, with tenure, in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts; William V. Giannobile, recommended for promotion to professor of
dentistry, with tenure, in the School of Dentistry; Martin A. Philbert, recommended for
promotion to professor of toxicology, with tenure, in the School of Public Health; and
Carol B. Bardenstein, recommended for promotion to associate professor of Arabic
languages and cultures, with tenure, in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Executive Vice President Kelch commented on extraordinary accomplishments of
faculty in the Medical School and highlighted the promotion recommendations for Dr.
John Park as associate professor of urology, with tenure, and Dr. Karin M. Muraszko as
professor of neurosurgery, with tenure; professor of surgery, without tenure; and
professor of pediatrics and communicable diseases, without tenure.
Chancellor Little noted that the promotions process is the most important element
in improving the quality of the Dearborn campus. He highlighted the promotion
recommendations for Georgina Hickey as associate professor of history, with tenure,
and Pravansu S. Mohanty as associate professor of mechanical engineering, with tenure.
Chancellor Mestas reported that the Flint campus has recommended 11 candidates
for promotion. He highlighted the recommendations of Marva J. Furman for promotion
to professor of English with tenure; Steven F. Myers for promotion to professor of
biology with tenure; Steven M. Ralston for promotion to professor of communication
with tenure; and Kirk Aamot for promotion to associate professor of music with tenure.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning. Members received a regular bimonthly update on audit
activities from Fred White, interim director of University audits, and discussed the FY 05
internal audit plan. He stated that the committee had met privately with Mr. White to
inquire as to the level of cooperation he was receiving from University units and
management, and the committee was pleased by his response that there was a very
receptive environment to the department's internal audit activities.
The committee also was updated on development of the 2004-05 General Fund
budget   and  received  an   analysis  by  University  staff  members  and
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP staff on the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation, and specifically
how the University's current practices compare with "best practices" in the current
regulatory environment. He noted that one result of this analysis is that the current
charter for the Finance, Audit and Investment Committee will be revised to more
closely reflect the new legislation and current "best practices." Regent Brandon also
noted that the committee received a regular update on the Life Sciences Initiative.


263




Com8pensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that the
committee had met with President Coleman and then with Provost Courant to discuss
personnel issues.
Regent Deitch commented that the entire board shares the view that "bringing
ourselves up to the level of best practices and leadership in financial reporting and
ethical business standards is a commitment we all have."
The Regents then turned to the regular agenda.
Consent Agenda
Miinutes, Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the meeting
of April 22, 2004.
Reports, Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report,
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report. He
noted that the Ann Arbor campus recently received an award from the U.S. Department
of Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency as one of the best places to
work as a commuter. The University is the first and only Big Ten institution to receive
this award, which recognizes the University's efforts in reducing emissions and
reducing the number of cars on campus.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research -Report.  Vice President Ulaby submitted the report of Projects
Established, April 1-April 30, 2004.
University of Michigan  Hearth System. Executive Vice President Kelch called
attention to the recommended appointment of Raymond Ruddon, Jr., M.D., Ph.D., as
professor of pharmacology with tenure and senior associate dean for research and
graduate studies in the Medical School.
Division of Student Affairs. No additional report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported that the Dearborn
campus had had a fabulous campus-wide campaign kickoff event. He said that he
views the upcoming campaign as an opportunity to think about the campus's mission
and its relationship with metropolitan Detroit and southeast Michigan. Campaign
planning has also prompted exploration of growth of the campus in response to the
governor's recommendation for increasing the number of undergraduate students being
served state-wide.
Tniversity of Michigan -Flint. Chancellor Mestas stated that he was in support of
Chancellor Little's comments.
Micchigan Student Assembly iReport. MSA President Jason Mironov reported
that the student government is pleased at the successful campaign kickoff event. They
are also pleased by President Coleman's personal commitment to development of the
Trotter House. He expressed disappointment that students have not been brought into
the process of budget development and said that he hopes that student involvement in
this process will become institutionalized to further student understanding.  Mr.
Mironov reported on planning being done for upcoming events and information


264




gathering   and dissemination     on issues of importance to        students.   He addressed
concerns that have been expressed about buses sent to Washington and funded by MSA
in support of a March for Choice. He noted that efforts are being made to emphasize
the assembly's support for students of all political views.
The Regents expressed support for the idea of involving students from all three
campuses in the budget process.
Voluntary Support.        Vice President May submitted the report of voluntary
support. He reviewed the objectives of the Michigan Difference campaign and noted
that the goals are a minimum of $400 million toward student scholarships and
fellowships; $425 million in faculty support; funding for a wide array of research
support programs; in excess of $500 million for buildings and facilities; and $150
million for laboratories infrastructure. He also commented on the importance of
bequests and noted that the goal was to receive at least $400 million in bequest
intentions.
Abt Associates, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for the Abt Associates Fellows Fund in Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research.... $ 30,000
Evelyn Maloy Alix, Birmingham
for the Evelyn Alix Charitable Gift Annuity Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Michigan League.... 50,000
Alix Foundation, Southfield
for the Frank Moran Leadership Awards Fund in the Medical School and
for the Spring to Life Event Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 54,671
Jeffrey Altshuler, Grosse Pointe
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 82,279
American Dental Education Association, Washington, DC
for support in  the  School of Dentistry.................................................... 41,667
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School.......................................................  87,500
Stewart G. Armitage Estate
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.............................. 24,000
Mary Armstrong Estate
for the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital in memory of Thurman and Mary Armstrong.............. 207,745
Anonymous Donor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 25,187
Anonymous Donor
for the Canham Natatorium Scoreboard Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics........... 50,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 90,500
Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Foundation, Zug, Switzerland
for the Francois Xavier Bagnoud Center in the College of Engineering......................... 34,980
Eli V. Berger, West Bloomfield
for the Dr. Eli V. and Joanna Berger Endowed Fellowship in the School of Dentistry............... 10,000
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
for the Law School Building Fund............................................... 125,000
Robert M. Bohlen, Brighton
for the Museum of Art........................................................ 20,000
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for the University Musical Society................................................. 15,500
Bredt Family Fund of the Community Foundation Silicon Valley, San Jose, California
for the Museum of Art Building Project.............................................. 500,000
Breg, Inc., Vista, California
for research in the Medical School............................................. 10,000
Dorothy M. Bremer Estate
for the Regent's Alumni Scholarship................................................. 22,900
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 65,500
Jeffrey E. Cappo, Morristown, Tennessee
for the University Hospitals Camp Michitanki Transplant Fund........................ 10,000


265




Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 60,000
E. Follett Carter, Sanibel, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................. 20,000
Janet E. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
for the support in the School of Music.................................................... 10,000
Richard L. Christiansen, Scottsdale, Arizona
8,640 shares of Bio-Rad Labs, Inc., common stock
for the Richard and Nancy Christiansen Charitable Remainder Trust Fund
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Dentistry.......................................... 482,630
Ralph B. Clemens, Chelsea
252 shares of various corporate common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................. 10,161
Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Fellowship in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Life Sciences Fund,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Undergraduate Scholarship
for the Leslie Kish Fund in the Institute for Social. Research,
for Trotter House,
for the Museum of Art Building Project,
for the University Musical Society, and
for WUOM......................................................................... 20,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the School of Nursing...................................................... 12,961
Cooper Family Foundation, Inc., New Hyde Park, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Cameron B. Courtney CRUT
for the Cameron and John Courtney Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 100,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research  in  the  M edical School.......................................................  13,750
Keith E. Dixon Trust
for the Keith and Inez Dixon Endowed Scholarship Fund..................................... 50,000
Haig Donabedian, Toledo, Ohio
for the Dorothy Salibian Donabedian Endowment Fund in the School of Nursing.................. 20,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the UMBS Innovations Initiative Fund in the School of Business Administratio n............... 50,000
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
for support at the University of Miichigan-Dearborn and
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 42,785
ExxonMobil Foundation, Irving, Texas
for employee matching gifts........................................................... 116,004
Fashion Footwear Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................................... 322,760
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the International Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 300,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support in the Medical School and the College of Engineering and
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn......................................... 50,775
William and Martha Ford Fund, Detroit
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 10,000
Ilene H. Forsyth, Ann Arbor
445 shares of Hewlett-Packard Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Martha Cook Building Fund and the Museum of Art................................... 10,337
Mary C. Forsythe Estate
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School....................................... 67,000
Stanley & Judith Frankel Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................ 12,500
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................. 25,000
J. George Friess, Farmington Hills
517 shares of Shaw Electric Company preferred stock
for the Maiga and George Friess Nursing Scholarship and other support in the School of Nursing and
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................. 51,700
Mildred G. Fritz Estate
for scholarships in the School of Social Work and
for the Martha Cook Residence Hall Historic Preservation Fund................................ 19,700


266




Gerontological Society of America, Washington, DC
for support in the School of Social Work.................................................. 10,000
Googasian Fa mily Foundation, Oakland
for  the  President's  Fund...............................................................  20,000
Harold E. Groves, Jr., Ann Arbor
for support in the Cardiovascular Center.................................................. 10,000
Guidant Foundation, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for biomedical engineering support in the College of Engineering.............................. 15,000
Gynecologic Cancer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 50,000
Carroll J. Haas Foundation Mendon
for the Carroll Haas Research Fund in the Medical School.................................... 25,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Social Work.................................................. 26,869
Jerry L. Heiman, Beulah
23 shares of NVR, Inc., common stock
for the James 1R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry............................. 10,263
C. W. Howell Estate
for endowment support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 141,777
Hughes Network Systems, Germantown, Maryland
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 75,000
IDT Charitable Foundation, Newark, New Jersey
for the Levitt Family Scholarship in the School of Business Administration....................... 20,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering............................ 10,000
Verne G. & Judith A. Istock Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Geraldine Ford Memorial Scholarship.............................................. 10,000
J. W. & Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................ 40,000
Karen Wallace Johnson, Houston, Texas
for the Field Hockey Turf Project Fund and
other support in the Department of Athletics............................................... 20,250
Robert Wood Johnson, Princeton, New Jersey
for support in the School of Public Health................................................ 331,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the School of Public Health and
for research at the University of Michigan.............................................. 2,548,000
Kennedy's Disease Association, Simi Valley, California
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 25,000
Kiwanis of Mlichigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................... 14,852
Janet B. Koivunen Trust
for support in the Law School.30,000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 108,538
Josephine Kugel Foundation, McLean, Virginia
1 10 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock
for the Josephine Kugel Foundation Scholarship in the Medical School.......................... 10,817
Nancy S. Lambert, Ann Arbor
348 shares of various co rorate common stock,
1,217 units of T. Rowe Price Growth Stock Fund mutual fund, and a cash gift
for the Nancy S. Lambert Charitable Gift Annuity Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the University Library and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 61,273
Kent H. Landsberg Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute........................................ 10,500
Lannquist Hamilton Foundation of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................. 15,000
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 12,500
Jerry W. Levin, Boca Raton, Florida
for support in the College of Engineering................................................. 300,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for chemistry support in the College of Litera ture, Science, and the Arts......................... 30,000
Jeanne Levy-FHinte, New York, New York
for support in the Cardiovascular Center................................................ 1,000,000
Barrie L. Loeks, Rye, New York
for support in the Law School........................................................... 25,000


267




Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Benard L. Maas Fund in the C.S. Mott Children's Hospital and
for the Spring to Life Event Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 10,840
Madigan Family Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration....................................  10,000
Malloure Family Foundation, Beverly Hills, California
for the Malloure-Leichtman Fellowship Fund in the Medical School............................ 50,000
Joseph R. Malloure, Northville
for the Joseph and Nancy Malloure Endowed Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering........ 75,000
Neil R. Mann, Chicago, Illinois
for the Mann Endowment in the School of Business Administration............................. 50,000
Bob Maxey Lincoln-Mercury, Inc., Detroit
for scholarships at the University of Michigan............................................. 13,500
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
6,000 shares of Gillette Company common stock
for the Depression Center Construction Fund.......................................... 234,450
Mediware Information Systems, Inc., Lenexa, Kansas
for the University Hospitals.................................................... 35,000
Medtronic Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Medtronic Fellowship in the College of Engineering................................. 50,000
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for the Merck Company Foundation Fellowship Support Fund in the College of Engineering and
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 27,160
Robert E. Meredith Trust
for the University Musical Society...................................................... 10,000
David J. Metzger, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the David J. and Carole N. Metzger Endowed Scholarship in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Pananning........................... 20,000
Michelin America Research and Development Corporation, Greenville, South Carolina
for research in the Transportation Research Institute....................................... 25,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...................................... 80,000
Mid West Financial Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Golf Classic Benefit Fund............................................ 10,800
Herman L. Miller, Ann Arbor
1,640 shares of Verizon Communications, Inc., common stock
for the Dorothy and Herman L. Miller Endowed Research Fund in the Medical School............. 60,713
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 30,000
John W. Moon, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration..................................... 10,000
Duane D. Morse, McLean, Virginia
for support in the Law School.................................................... 10,000
Ruth Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the School of Public Health.............................................. 85,324
Mary C. Murphy, Calumet
for the Percy J. Murphy, M.D. and Mary C. Murphy, R.N. Endowed Children's Research Fund in
the Medical School............................................................ 20,000
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School................................................. 17,177
Edward M. Nagel Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Edward M. Nagel Scholarship Fund in the Law School................................ 40,000
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 70,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, Detroit
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 30,938
National Public Broadcasting, LLC, New York, New York
for WUOM.................................................................  17,160
Northwestern Mutual Life Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.......................................................  12,550
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for support in the School of Public Health......................................... 50,000
Dennis J. Paustenback, San Francisco, California
3,000 shares of Exponent, Inc., common stock
for the Center for Risk Science and Communication in the School of Public Health................ 73,680
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.........................................................22,545
Pfizer, Inc. Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society..................................................... 115,000
268




Pharmacia Foundation, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts..................................................  13,491
Philips Research, Briarcliff Manor, New York
for research in the College of Engineering................................................ 50,000
PKD Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 50,000
Plastech, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 23,700
POM Group, Inc., Auburn Hills
for research in the College of Engineering................................................ 55,000
Thomas S. Porter Trust
for the Thomas Porter and Kathleen Crispell Endowment Fund and
other support in the School of Business Administration......................................  100,100
Presser Foundation, Haverford, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Musical Scholarship in the School of Music................................... 11,500
Radiological Society of North America, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 15,000
Research Foundation for Prevention of Complications Associated with Health Care, Washington, DC
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 30,000
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 10,000
Research to Prevent Blindness, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 100,000
Willogene G. Rice Estate
for the Richard Irwin and Willogene Guyer Rice Scholarship in the College of Engineering......... 877,000
Margaret Ann Riecker, Midland
for the Jean Campbell Research Fund in the Center for the Education of Women.................. 14,405
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Jack Roth Softball Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 50,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Business Administration..................................... 50,000
Elizabeth M. Schmidt, Grosse Pointe Shores
for the Sid Gilman and Carol Barbour Lectureship Fund in the Medical School.................... 25,000
Howard Schumir Estate
for the Howard Schumir Dean's Discretionary Fund in the College of Pharmacy................. 306,000
Jeffrey J. Scott, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 20,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for women's gymnastics and women's golf support in the Department of Athletics............... 240,133
William T. Smith, Fort Worth, Texas
20,000 shares of General Electric common stock and a cash gift
for the William T. Smith-Henry Pollack Endowed Professorship and
the William T. Smith Charitable Gift Annuity Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the William T. Smith Endowed Lecture Series and Research Fund in
Geological Sciences in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................... 2,615,400
Staples, Framingham, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Education................................................... 33,000
Stryker Instruments, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopaedic Lecture Fund in the Medical School...................... 12,000
King C. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
for the King and Frances Stutzman Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning and
for scholarship support in the Department of Athletics...................................  12,000
Toyota Motor Corporation, Susono-shi, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering............................................ 60,000
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Detroit
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute..................................... 100,000
V Foundation, Cary, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School........................................... 50,000
Steven P. Varilone, Milford
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 10,000
Verizon Foundation, Irving, Texas
for Employee matching gifts........................................................ 10,025
Margaret E. Waid, Fort Pierce, Florida
1,114 shares of Wachovia Corporation common stock
for the Margaret E. Waid Charitable Gift Annuity Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Public Health in memory of Robert G. Hoffman............................... 49,824
Helen D. Weaver Trust
for the William D. Drake Prize Fund in the Nichols Arboretum in memory of William D. Drake...... 20,000
269




Jason G. Weiss, Pacific Palisades, California
for the Jason and Donna Weiss Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 25,000
John P. Williams, Leawood, Kansas
216 shares of Merck & Company, Inc., common stock
for  support in  the  Law  School........................................................  10,163
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Inc., Great Neck, New York
for the Bertram J. Askwith Prize Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies...... 10,000
Frank B. Womer Living Trust
for the Frank B. Womer Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education and
for W FUM -TV....................................................................  30,065
Thomas B. Woodworth, Hickory Corners
5,000 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Upjohn Woodworth Professorship fund in the Medical School.......................... 187,375
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Barbara Benedek, Los Angeles, California
hosting for a fundraising event for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
original materials relating to songwriter Daniel B. Emmett for the Clements Library
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
computer equipment for the College of Engineering
Intel Corporation, IHillsboro, Oregon
equipment for the College of Engineering
George Makdisi Estate
items from the collection of George Makdisi including monographs, journals and microfilm reels for the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Daniel Mato, Courtenay, British Columbia, Canada
118 African objects for the Museum of Art
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


David T. Alexander, San Francisco, California
American Association of Orthodontists Foundation,
St. Louis, Missouri
Anonymous Donor
AstraZeneca LP, Wilmington, Delaware
BPI Information Systems, Southfield
Briarwood Property Holdings LLC, Ann Arbor
James R. Browne, Dallas, Texas
Lisa A. Caldwell, Rochester
Marcia L. Carris, Denver, Colorado
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan,
Southfield
Thomas Clerici, Arbou, Switzerland
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
Coca-Cola Enterprises Bottling Companies, Cincinnati,
Ohio
Fred M. Cohen, Mamaroneck, New York
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
Contempo Communications, Inc., Fort Myers, Florida
James B. Cooper, Los Angeles, California
Dade Behring, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
EDS PLM Solutions, Maryland Heights, Missouri
Walter & Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
Norman & Edna Freehling Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
Gary D. Giller, Columbus, Ohio
GlaxoSmithKline, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Hartman Foundation, Detroit
Ralph C. Heid, Jr., Plymouth
Horizon Health Center, Limited Partnership, Southfield
James S. House and Wendy Fisher House Charitable
Fund, Boston, Massachusetts


J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York
Andrew C. Jacobs, Dublin, Ohio
Donna F. Johnson Estate
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
Koeze's, Grand Rapids
Jon H. Kouba, San Francisco, California
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
Lockheed Martin Services, Inc., Cherry Hill, New Jersey
Jean C. Lutterman, Bethesda, Maryland
Market Strategies, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
Michael V. Marston, Detroit
Charlotte McGeoch Trust
McMullen Realty Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
D. Stuart Meiklejohn, Grand Blanc
Nebraska Book Company, Inc., Lincoln, Nebraska
O'Connor, DeGrazia, Tamm & O'Connor P.C.,
Bloomfield Hills
Sujit K. Pandit, Ann Arbor
Stephen and Robin Perry Family Trust, Lagina Hills,
California
Donald E. and Jo Anne Petersen Foundation,
Birmingham
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
Murray and Ina Pitt Charitable Trust, Southfield
Pryor Foundation, Windsor, Connecticut
Rooney Family LLC, Ann Arbor
Rosebud Foundation, Dexter
Peter J. Rosewig, Jupiter, Florida
SBC Foundation, San Antonio, Texas
John J. H. Schwarz, Battle Creek
Paul F. Sefcovic, Columbus, Ohio


270




Andrew J. Smith, Tecumseh                      Jackman S. and Jane G. Vodrey Charitable Fund,
Smith Group Company, Detroit                         San Francisco, California
Speckhard-Knight Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor  Harvey A. Wagner, Dearborn
Julie A. Stotlar, Dexter                        Samuel A. Walk, Pinckney
Mark F. Suchter, Clarks Summit, Pennsylvania   Weiermiller Family Fund of the Ayco Charitable
Sullivan, Ward, Asher & Patton P.C., Southfield  Foundation. Clifton Park, New York
Sunflower Cafe LLC, Ann Arbor                  Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
Thomas D. Ungrodt, Ann Arbor                   Whitman Family Foundation, Ann Arbor
Visteon, Livonia
Personnel Ac tions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions and
personnel reports.
RECOMMENDED PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS
OF PROFESSOR AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
ANN ARBOR, DEARBORN AND FLINT CAMPUSES
Effective September 1, 2004, unless otherwise noted
With tenure, unless otherwise noted
A. Al ed Taubman Colle e of Architecture and Urban Planning
McCullough, Malcolm, from Associate Professor of Architecture, without tenure, to Associate Professor
of Architecture, with tenure
School ofArt and Design
Smith, Bradley R., from Associate Professor of Art, without tenure, to Associate Professor of Art, with
tenure
Trumpey, Joseph E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art, with tenure
School ofBusiness Adininstration
Ahuja, Gautam, from Associate Professor to Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business
Kapuscinski, Roman, from Assistant Professor of Operations Management to Associate Professor of
Operations and Management Science
Krishnan, Mayuram S., from Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems to Professor of
Business Information Technology
Spreitzer, Gretchen M., from Clinical Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management to Associate Professor of Management and Organizations
School of Dentista
Fenno, Christopher J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry
Giannobile, William V., from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry
Kohn, David H., from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry,
and from Associate Professor to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering
Wang, Cun-Yu, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry
School of    cation
Fishman, Barry, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education
O'Connor, Carla, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education
Songer, Nancy Butler, from Associate Professor to Professor of Education
Collge ofEngineering
Blaauw, David, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without
tenure, to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Fessler, Jeffrey, from Associate Professor to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure,
College of Engineering, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiology, without tenure,
Medical School
Gallimore, Alec D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Aerospace Engineering
Hansen, Will, from Associate Professor to Professor of Civil Engineering
He, Zhong, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological
Sciences
Hunt, Alan J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering


271




Martin, David C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with
tenure, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure
Millunchick, Joanna Mirecki, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Materials Science and
Engineering
Noble, Brian D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science
Pan, Xiaoqing, from Associate Professor to Professor of Materials Science and Engineering
Perlin, Marc, from Associate Professor to Professor of Ocean Engineering, with tenure, from Associate
Professor to Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, and from Associate Professor to
Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, without tenure
Ruf, Christopher S., from Associate Professor to Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences,
with tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, without tenure
Umstadter, Donald P., from Associate Professor to Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological
Sciences, with tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, without tenure
School of Infot   ration
Resnick, Paul, from Associate Professor to Professor of Information
Law School
Halberstam, Daniel, from Assistant Professor to Professor of Law
Katz, Ellen D., from Assistant Professor to Professor of Law
Mendelson, Nina, from Assistant Professor to Professor of Law
College oflitermture Science and the Arts
Arroyo, Jossianna, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Spanish
Askew, Kelly M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology and from Assistant
Professor to Associate Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies
Banaszak Holl, Mark M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Bardenstein, Carol B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Arabic Languages and Cultures
Benamou, Catherine L., from Assistant Professor of American Culture to Associate Professor of
American Culture-Latino/a Studies and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Film
and Video Studies
Ben-Shahar, Omri, from Assistant Professor to Professor of Economics, without tenure
Cadigan, Kenneth M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and
Developmental Biology
Canning, Kathleen M., from Associate Professor to Professor of History, with tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure
Carson, John S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History
Ceballo, Rosario E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology and from Assistant
Professor to Associate Professor of Women's Studies
Charles, Kerwin K., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics, without tenure
Collins, Derek B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Greek and Latin
Cook, James W., Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History and from Assistant
Professor to Associate Professor of American Studies
Curzan, Anne L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Assistant Professor to Associate
Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education
Deloria, Philip J., from Associate Professor to Professor of History and from Associate Professor to
Professor of American Culture
Derksen, Hendrikus G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics
Dimendberg, Edward, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and
Literatures and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Film and Video Studies, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Duanmu, San, from Associate Professor to Professor of Linguistics
Dunlap, Paul V., from Associate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure
Hirschfeld, Lawrence A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Anthropology and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Psychology


272




Holmes, Megan L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History of Art
Hubbs, Nadine M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Music Theory), School of
Music, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Jackson, Sherman A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Near Eastern Studies
Keeler, Gerald J., from Associate Professor to Professor of Geological Sciences, without tenure
Kollman, Kenneth W., from Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science
Kurdak, Cagliyan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics
Lange, Rebecca A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Geological Sciences
Li, Jianming, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental
Biology
Lithgow-Bertelloni, Carolina R., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Geological Sciences
Mindell, David P., from Associate Professor to Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and from
Associate Curator to Curator, Museum of Zoology
Mitchell, Michele, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History and from Assistant
Professor to Associate Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies
Morenoff, Jeffrey D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology
Nori, Franco M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics
Oyserman, Daphna R., from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Social Work, School of Social
Work
Page, Scott E., from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, without tenure
Pascual, Mercedes, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
Pollack, Eileen K., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature
Proops, Ian N., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Philosophy
Raithel, Georg A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics
Richards, Janet E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Egyptology
Sekaquaptewa, Denise J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology
Steinmetz, George, from Associate Professor to Professor of Sociology and from Associate Professor to
Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures
von Moltke, Johannes E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and
Literatures and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Film and Video studies
Vaillant, Derek W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Communication Studies
Valentino, Nicholas A, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science
Verhoogt, Arthur Mfw., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Papyrology and Greek
Ward, Lucretia Monique, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology
Weineck, Silke-Maria, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and
Literatures
Wells, James D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics
Zhang, Youxue, from Associate Professor to Professor of Geological Sciences
Medical School
Andrews, Philip C., from Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, to Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure
Barald, Kate F., from Associate Professor to Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology
Beydoun, Ahmad A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Neurology
Bishop, Dennis Keith, from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure
Blaum, Caroline S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
Bradford, Carol R., from Associate Professor to Professor of Otorhinolaryngology
Buchman, Steven R., from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Neurosurgery, without tenure
Crofford, Leslie Jane, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine
Cabana, Michael D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases
Chinnaiyan, Arul M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and
from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Urology, without tenure
Colletti, Lisa M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery
Dlugosz, Andrzej A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Dermatology
Elner, Victor M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Pathology, without tenure
Fetters, Michael D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Family Medicine
Fitzgerald, James T., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Medical Education
Fontana, Robert J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine


273




Gruber, Stephen B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, Medical
School, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure,
School of Public Health
Hogaboam, Cory M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pathology
Hughes, Bret A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with
tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology,
without tenure
Hughes, Richard E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, with
tenure, Medical School, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Inadomi, John M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
Kang, Sewon, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dermatology
Keep, Richard F., from Associate Professor to Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology,
without tenure
Kerr, Eve M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
Kohrman, David C., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with
tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure
Merajver, Sofia D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine
Moroi, Sayoko E., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences
Morrison, Sean J., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, without
tenure
Mukherji, Suresh K., from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure
Muraszko, Karin M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Neurosurgery, with tenure, from Associate
Professor to Professor of Surgery, without tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure
Nghiem, Hanh Vu, from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiology
Opp, Mark R., from Associate Professor to Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure
Park, John M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Urology
Pierce, Lori J., from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiation Oncology
Pipe, Steven W., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, without tenure
Smith, Gary D., from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Smith, Yolanda Regina, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Tait, Alan, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anesthesiology
Teitelbaum, Daniel H., from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery
Thompson, B. Gregory, Jr., from Associate Professor of Neurosurgery, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Neurosurgery, with tenure
Turner, David L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry
Ubel, Peter A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine
Upchurch, Gilbert R., Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery
Wei, John Thomas, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Urology
Young, Eric W., from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine
Yung, Raymond L., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
School of Music
Conway, Colleen M., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music Education
Richardson, Carol P., from Associate Professor to Professor of Music
Santos, Erik Ros, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music (Composition)
School of N"ural Resources and Environment
Ellsworth, David S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Plant Ecophysiology
Mohai, Paul, from Associate Professor to Professor of Natural Resources
College of Pharmacy
Welage, Lynda S., from Associate Professor to Professor of Pharmacy


274




School of Public   alt
Caldwell, Cleopatra Howard, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Behavior and
Health Education
Chemrnew, Michael E., from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Management and Policy
Haan, Mary N., from Associate Professor to Professor of Epidemiology
Harlow, Sioban D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Epidemiology
Inhorn, Marcia C., from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education
Jacobson, Peter D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Management and Policy
Neighbors, Harold W., from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education
Philbert, Martin A., from Associate Professor to Professor of Toxicology
Wilson, Mark L., from Associate Professor to Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, and
from Associate Professor to Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
GeadR. Fod School ofPublic Policy
Dominguez, Kathryn M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
fVho         ia Wrk
Danziger, Sandra K., from Associate Professor to Professor of Social Work
Delva, Jorge, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social Work
U4i -Dearborn College o Arts  ciences, and Letters
Eschrich, Gabriella, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of French
Hickey, Georgina, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History
Kraus, Carolyn, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Communications and Composition
McAuslan, Pamela, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology
Murphy, Troy, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Communications
Murray, Kent S., from Associate Professor to Professor of Geology
Rubenstein, Rheta, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics
Sheldon, Jane, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology
Zhao, Jing, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics
-DearornScolo          E  uon
Hong, Seong B., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education
Ui-Dearbo        e    fern Co           Compter Science
Mohanty, Pravansu S., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
Um-Flint Cole o    Arts and Sciences
Aamot, Kirk, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music
Baird, Darryl G., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art
Friesen, Lauren D., from Associate Professor to Professor of Theatre and Dance
Furman, Marva J., from Associate Professor to Professor of English
Myers, Steven F., from Associate Professor to Professor of Biology
Pearson, Christopher A., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics
Ralston, Steven M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Communication
U1-Flint School oL ducation an Human Services
Casement, Rose, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Education
Uff-Flint School oHealth Pro eions and Studies
Fry-Welch, Donna, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical Therapy
Mulhomrn, Kristine, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Health Care
Meh-Flint School   Mana genent
Mehdian, Seyed M., from Associate Professor to Professor of Finance


275




NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Brush, Barbara A., Ph.D., R.N.C., F.A.A.N., Associate Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing,
August 15, 2004
Hoffman, Andrew J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure,
School of Natural Resources and Environment, and Associate Professor of Management and
Organizations, without tenure, School of Business Administration, September 1, 2004
Ratner, Steven R., J.D., Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2004
Ruddon, Raymond W., Jr., M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Pharmacology and Senior Associate Dean for
Research and Graduate Studies, Medical School, June 1, 2004
Scheve, Kenneth F., Jr., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, September 1, 2004
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on September 1, 2004
Abdulhadi, Rabab, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Sociology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Stevenson, James G., Associate Dean for Clinical Sciences, College of Pharmacy, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Straub, Richard O., Chair, Department of Behavioral Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Arora, Poonam, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Humanities, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Clauw, Daniel J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Psychiatry,
without tenure, Medical School, May 1, 2004
Giannobile, William V., William K. and Mary Anne Najjar Professor, Associate Professor of Dentistry,
with tenure, and Director of Academic Programs, School of Dentistry, also appointed Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
Gillespie, John A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of
Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Keep, Richard F., Crosby-Kahn Collegiate Professor of Neurosurgery and Neuroanatomy and Associate
Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, also appointed Professor of
Neurosurgery, with tenure, Medical School, June 1, 2004
Loch-Caruso, Rita, Professor of Toxicology, with tenure, also appointed Interim Chair, Department of
Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Nor, Jacques E., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, also appointed
Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
January 1, 2004-December 31, 2006
Winter, David G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also appointed Interim Director, Organizational
Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Woodard, Ronald W., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure, and Associate Chair of
Professional Studies, College of Pharmacy, and Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Chair, Department of Medicinal Chemistry,
College of Pharmacy, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007


276




OTHERE PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Aew Appint   ment to Endowed ProfessOrxh~
Kotowicz, William E., Roy H. Roberts Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
February 1, 2004-January 31, 2009
Reappointment to Collegiate Professorship
Duff, Michael J., Oskar Klein Collegiate Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Reappointment toEndowed   rofes or:h
Gelman, Susan A., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Other Transactions
From Associate Dean for Academic Affairs to Associate Dean for Humanities, Associate Dean for
Natural Sciences, and Associate Dean for Social Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 2004
From Associate Dean for Undergraduate Education and Long Range Planning to Associate Dean for
Undergraduate and Graduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004
Beckman, Gary M., Chair, Department of Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Beddor, Patrice Speeter, Chair, Department of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Douglas, Susan J., Chair, Department of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Eley, Geoffrey H., Chair, Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Florida, Nancy K., Chair, Department of Asian Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Perry, Mark J., from Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, and Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure, UM-Flint School of Management, to
Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, and
Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management, September 1, 2004
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Arrvisoi Board on Intercollegiate Atletics
Wisinski, James C., student representative, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Maya Mandel, term expired
Dis  gised *feAlumni ervice A ward elec tion Committee
Hanson, Charlotte Miettunen, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005, vice George Morley, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Blank, Rebecca M., reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
King, John L., reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Akin, Cem, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2004-March 31, 2005
Fingar, Diane C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
April 1-August 31, 2004
Krull, Catherine E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
April 1, 2004-March 31, 2008
Mazza, Michael B., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
277




Muscato, Mark A., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Shoosmith, John P., M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Zao, Denise, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 2004, unless otherwise indicated
Ahmed, Asra Z., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School
Alexander, Neil B., from Research Associate Professor to Research Professor of Gerontology, Institute of
Gerontology
Andreae, Margie C., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Angulo-Barroso, Rosa M., from Assistant Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor of the
Center for Human Growth and Development
Arts, H. Alexander, from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Otorhinolaryngology and from
Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Surgery, Medical School
Bach, David S., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School
Bingham, C. Raymond, from Research Associate Professor, University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute, and Assistant Research Scientist of Psychiatry Substance Abuse, Medical
School, to Research Associate Professor, University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute
and Research Associate Professor of Psychiatry Substance Abuse, Medical School
Bohn, Amy C., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical
School
Brakel, Linda W., from Adjunct Clinical Assistant Professor to Adjunct Clinical Associate Professor of
Psychiatry, Medical School
Bria, William F., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Chapman, Daniel K., from Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, and Clinical
Instructor in Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health, to Clinical Assistant
Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School, and Clinical Instructor in Environmental and
Industrial Health, School of Public Health
Clinthome, Neal H., from Research Associate Professor to Research Professor of Radiology, Medical
School
Colwell, Miles O., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, Medical School
Comstock, Christine H., from Adjunct Clinical Assistant Professor to Adjunct Clinical Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Cooke, James M., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical
School
Cornblath, Wayne T., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Ophthalmology and
Visual Sciences, and from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Neurology,
Medical School
Danziger, Sandra K., from Associate Research Scientist to Research Professor of Public Policy, Gerald
R. Ford School of Public Policy
Deegan, Thomas J., from Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics
Hospitalists, and Clinical Assistant Professor of Medical Education, to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Emergency Medicine, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics Hospitalists, and Clinical
Assistant Professor of Medical Education, Medical School
Dwamena, Ben A., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School
Evans, Jeffrey E., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation, Medical School
Felt, Barbara T., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Fig, Lorraine M., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Radiology, Medical School
Franzese, Jennifer R., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Gajarski, Robert J., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Gessner, Lynn M., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School


278




Gitlin, Scott D., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Giacherio, Donald A., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology,
Medical School
Gomez, Carlen A., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Graziano, Joseph N., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Greenberg, Grant M., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine,
Medical School
Haftel, Hilary M., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases and from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor in
the Office of Educational Resources and Research, Medical School
Hartmann, Joseph H., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine,
Medical School
Heaney, Deborah S., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine,
Medical School
Hickenbottom, Susan L., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Neurology,
Medical School
Hua, Ya, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery, Medical School
Inohara, Naohiro, from Assistant Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor of Pathology,
Medical School
Ji, Baoan, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Molecular and Integrative
Physiology, Medical School
Kirsch, Ned L., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation, Medical School
Kollman, Kenneth W., from Research Associate Professor to Research Professor in the Center for
Political Studies, Institute for Social Research
Kaferle, Joyce E., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine, Medical
School
Kieffer, Edith C., from Associate Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor of Social Work,
School of Social Work
Krukonis, Eric S., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, Medical School
Krywko, Diann M., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine,
Medical School
Kumagai, Arno K., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Lahann, Joerg, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering, Assistant Professor of Material Science and
Engineering, and Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2003-August 31, 2006
Lowe, Lori, from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Pathology and from Clinical
Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Dermatology, Medical School
Marcus, Shelia M., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry,
Medical School
Mayer, Michael, Assistant Professor of Biomedical Engineering also appointed Assistant Professor of
Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1, 2004-May 31, 2007
McCreadie, Barbara R., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic
Surgery, Medical School
Michele, Daniel E., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology,
Medical School, February 28, 2004-February 28, 2006
Miller, Janis M., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Medical School
Miller, Sonya R., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilitation, Medical School
Milner, Karen K., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry,
Medical School
Morenoff, Jeffery D., from Assistant Research Scientist to Associate Research Scientist in the Population
Studies Center, Institute for Social Research
Oyserman, Daphna R., from Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure, School of Social Work,
Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Associate Research Scientist, Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute for Social
Research to Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure, School of Social Work, Associate
279




Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Research Professor of Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute for Social Research
Ping, April J., from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School
Racine, Melody L., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Performing Arts (Voice),
School of Music
Rae, James M., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Rafter, Mary E., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry
Rainier, Shirley R., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical
School
Remington, Tami L., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pharmacy,
College of Pharmacy
Rosen, David S., from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, Medical School
Sarma, J. Vidya, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical
School
Sillman, M. Sanford, from Research Scientist to Research Professor of Space Physics Research
Laboratory, College of Engineering
Su, Lyndon D., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology and from
Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Dermatology, Medical School
Thomas, Susan E., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Turner, Christopher R., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of
Anesthesiology, Medical School
Turner, David L., from Assistant Research Scientist, to Research Associate Professor in the Mental
Health Research Institute
Wagner, Deborah S., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, and Clinical
Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, to Clinical Associate Professor of
Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, and Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical
School
Wang, Su He, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School
Weitzel, William F., III., from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School
Wolk, Seth W., from Adjunct Clinical Assistant Professor to Adjunct Clinical Associate Professor of
Surgery, Medical School
Xi, Guo-Hua, from Assistant Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor of Neurosurgery,
Medical School
Zhang, Weizhen, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brandwin, Marvin A., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Graves, Helen M., Associate Professor Emerita of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2003-April 30, 2004
Knopf, Ralph F., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Margolis, Philip M., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, July 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cheek, Timothy M., Assistant Professor of Performing Arts (Voice), School of Music, scholarly activity
leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
Keyes, P. Landis, Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Medical School, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Maixner, Susan M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, childcare leave,
March 5-April 30, 2004


280




Miller, Douglas E., Associate Professor of German, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Richardson, Carol P., Associate Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of Music,
duty off campus, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Roehl, Richard W., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2004
Rosano, Michael J., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2003
Sheng, Bright, Leonard Bernstein Distinguished University Professor of Music and Professor of Music
(Composition/Music Theory), with tenure, School of Music, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
Stoffel, Elena M., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, childcare leave,
April 5-May 11, 2004
Thomson, William J., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, retirement furlough, January 1, 2004-April 30, 2005
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Lorey, Robert F., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, April 9, 2004
Lubeck, Sally A., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, April 9, 2004
Resigned
Adams, Julia P., Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Degelsmith, Laurence M., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 14, 2004
Guerrieri, Mark J., Assistant Professor of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, April 31, 2004
Khan, Mohamed K., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, May 31, 2004
Lemke, Douglas W., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Lewis, Earl, Elsa Barkley Brown and Robin D. G. Kelley Collegiate Professor of History and
Afro-American and African Studies and Professor of History and Afro-American Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Morag-Levine, Noga, Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Morley, Shelia B., Lecturer III in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Retirement
Chesler, Mark, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Farley, W. Reynolds, Otis Dudley Duncan Collegiate Professor of Sociology and Professor of Sociology,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Hegyi, Dennis J., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Karnopp, Bruce H., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
May 31, 2004
Knodel, John E., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Modigliani, Andre, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2004
Morley, Helen J., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Tomozawa, Yukio, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Yang, Wei-Hsuin, Professor of Applied Mechanics, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2004
Term Compl  ted
Cueto, Nisrin B., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, December 31, 2003
Mishra, Mithilesh K., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2004
Laskowski, Gene L., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2004


281




Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted 20 faculty retirement
memoirs. Provost Courant called attention to the retirements of Richard Crawford,
professor in the School of Music, and Reynolds Farley, professor of sociology.
Richard L. Allen, Ph.D., professor of communication studies in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Originally from Philadelphia, Professor Allen received his B.A. degree from
Cheyney State College in 1970, his M.A. degree from the University of Washington in
1972, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1975. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1980 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1986 and professor in 2000.
During his tenure, Professor Allen researched numerous issues, including
structural and individual influences on the self during difficult times, identity across
ethnicity, the measurement of self, theoretical approaches to the self, the mass media
and self-esteem, intercultural communication, blacks and media, persuasion, and
propaganda analysis. He also completed a comparative analysis of the African self in
the U.S. and in Ghana, and he spent the 1997-98 academic year on a Fulbright
scholarship in Ghana researching media and democratization in Africa. He is the author
of The Concept of Self: A Study in Black Identity and Self-Esteem and has written
several articles on African Americans and the media.
Professor Allen has received numerous awards throughout his academic career,
including a "Teaching Honor Roll" award from ADVICE, a student-run publication, in
1995, the Fulbright Senior Scholar Award in 1997, and a Faculty Recognition Award in
1997. He served on the Office of Minority Affairs Advisory Committee from
1992-2003, the college's Academic Judiciary Committee from 1999-03, and the
Campus Committee for the IIE Fulbright Program from 1999-2003. He has been a
faculty counselor and was a recruiter for the Rackham School of Graduate Studies from
1998-2003. Professor Allen served on the editorial boards of the Howard Journal of
Communication (1991-present) and the Journal of Gerontology (1995-98).
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Richard L. Allen
professor emeritus of communication studies.
Terry J. Bergstrom, M.D., professor of ophthalmology and visual sciences in the
Medical School, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 2004.
Dr. Bergstrom received his B.S. degree from Michigan State University in 1955
and his M.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1965. After completing his
residency at the University of Michigan in 1969, he joined the U.S. Air Force as a staff
ophthalmologist, serving also as director of the residency training program at the medical
center on Lackland AFB (1977-80), and on the faculty at The University of Texas Health
Science Center in San Antonio and the Brooke Army Medical Center. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1980 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1986 and professor in 1994.
Dr. Bergstrom is a skilled physician and outstanding teacher. He has served as
chief of the glaucoma service, chief of the low vision service, and chief of the
comprehensive ophthalmology service. He was director of the department's residency
program from 1991-98 and headed the ophthalmology department at the Veterans
Affairs Medical Center from 1985-95. He lectured nationally on a variety of topics,


282




published numerous articles on the diagnosis and treatment of glaucoma, and
participated in national clinical trials.
Teaching is Dr. Bergstrom's legacy. Over the past 24 years he has won 19
teaching awards. His trainees--medical students, residents, and fellows--learned more
from Dr. Bergstrom than the basics of diagnosis, management, and technique; they
learned an attitude and an approach for treating patients, colleagues, and the people they
work with every day.   Throughout his long career, Dr. Bergstrom  consistently
exemplified the attributes that are most revered by the Medical School and the Health
System: fine clinical judgment, an unswerving commitment to his patients, and careful
training of his students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Terry J.
Bergstrom professor emeritus of ophthalmology and visual sciences.
Morton Brown, Ph.D., professor of mathematics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Brown received his B.S. (1953), M.S. (1955), and Ph.D. (1958) degrees
from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He taught at The Ohio State University in
1957-58 and had a fellowship at the University of Michigan in 1958-59. Professor
Brown joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1959 and
was promoted to professor in 1964.
Early in his career, Professor Brown was a recognized expert in topology. Later,
he became interested in dynamical systems on 2-dimensional manifolds and helped
develop an understandable and acceptable proof of a controversial, fixed-point theorem
conjectured by Poincare and Birkhoff. He has presented papers and lectures on
topology, high dimensional topology, and dynamical systems at universities and
institutes throughout the world.
Within the department, in the late 1980s Professor Brown began implementing the
first major revision of the undergraduate calculus program in nearly 20 years. He
initiated cooperative learning in calculus classes, fitted classrooms with new
technology, implemented a specialized training program for instructors, and oversaw
the adoption of a reform textbook. These reforms served as a model for the national
calculus reform movement, and he was active on numerous national and state calculus
reform committees.
Professor Brown served as associate chair for education, chair of the Doctoral
Committee, and director of the elementary program in the Department of Mathematics
and served on many University-wide committees. His honors include a Sloan
Foundation Fellowship (1964), the Veblen Prize from the American Mathematical
Society (1966), and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Excellence in
Teaching Award (1992 and 1993). He was named a Thurnau Professor in 1994.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Morton Brown
professor emeritus of mathematics.
Robert I. Carr, Ph.D., professor of civil engineering in the College of
Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Carr received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from The University of Texas at
Austin in 1961 and 1963, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from Stanford University in
1971. He was an assistant professor of architectural engineering at The University of
Texas at Austin from 1967-73 and associate professor of civil and architectural


283




engineering at the University of Colorado from 1973-78. Professor Carr joined the
University of Michigan faculty as a professor in 1978.
Professor Carr's research focused on construction management and on building
and transportation technology. During his tenure, he supervised 13 Ph.D. thesis students
and authored over 100 publications. From 1983-2003, he was director of the Center for
Construction and Engineering Management. In 1985 Professor Carr received the
College of Engineering's Excellence in Teaching Award, and in 1993 he received the
Excellence in Faculty Service Award.    His University service also included
participation on numerous departmental and university-wide committees.
A life member and fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers, Professor
Carr served on the society's Advisory Committee for Civil Engineering Education and
was vice chair and chair of the executive committee of the Construction Division. He is
a founder and member of the Construction Innovation Forum (CIF) and the
Construction Institute, and he helped develop the CIF's NOVA Awards. He was
honored with the Peurifoy Construction Research Award from the American Society of
Civil Engineers in 1996 and the Nova Award Statue from the CIF in 2003.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Robert I. Carr professor
emeritus of civil engineering.
Mark A. Chesler, Ph.D., professor of sociology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Chesler earned his B.A. degree from Comell University in 1957, his
M.A. degree from Hofstra University in 1963, and his Ph.D. degree from the University
of Michigan in 1966. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor in 1967 and was promoted to associate professor in 1971 and professor in
1984.
Professor Chesler has made significant contributions to the understanding of
power, conflict, inequality, and coping. His work includes critiques of American
pedagogy, pioneering explorations into the psycho-social dynamics of medical self-help
groups for ailing patients, and reflections on the state of contemporary race and gender
relations. His writings in over 200 publications have served as a paradigm of
scholarship that seeks to harness the pursuit of scientific knowledge to solve pressing
social problems. An astute observer and student of organizational processes, he is a
consultant for groups seeking more effective ways of managing organizational conflict.
He also pursued those interests as co-director of the Program in Conflict Management
Alternatives and by participating in the Program on Intergroup Relations.
Like his research, Professor Chesler's teaching aims to educate, empower, and
transform the world. His vision of the classroom as a site for critical inquiry and
self-discovery and his commitment to learning as process has provided his students with
a rich and supportive environment. For over 35 years, he led Project Community,
which places undergraduates in applied social service settings in the community,
providing educational and service opportunities. Professor Chesler's honors include the
Amoco Foundation Good Teaching Award, an Arthur Thumau Professorship, a
Community Service Learning Award for Outstanding Public Service, an Excellence in
Education Award, the Harold Johnson Multicultural Service Award, and the Ernest
Lynton Award for Faculty Professional Service and Outreach.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Mark A. Chesler
professor emeritus of sociology.


284




Richard A. Crawford, Ph.D., Hans T. David Distinguished University Professor
of Musicology and professor of music (musicology) in the School of Music, will retire
from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Crawford received his B.M. (1958), M.M. (1959) and Ph.D. (1965)
degrees from the University of Michigan. He joined the University of Michigan faculty
in 1962 as a lecturer and was promoted to instructor in 1963, assistant professor in
1966, associate professor in 1969, and professor in 1975. He was appointed the Glenn
McGeoch Collegiate Professor of Music in 1994 and the Hans T. David Distinguished
University Professor of Musicology in 2000.
Professor Crawford served as an editorial consultant for The Complete Works of
William Billings and has written articles on Gershwin, Edward MacDowell, popular
songs of the 19th and 20th centuries, black music, and jazz. With a colleague, he
compiled Jazz Standards on Record: A Core Repertory. He is the author of The
American Musical Landscape and 100 Years of Music at Michigan, wrote numerous
articles for The New Grove Dictionary of Music, and is currently editor-in-chief of
Music of the United States of America. He served as the Ernest Bloch Professor of
Music at the University of California-Berkeley (1985), has been president of the
American Musicological Society (1982-84), and was elected to the American Academy
of Arts and Sciences in 1995.
Professor Crawford received the American Musicological Society's Otto Kinkeldey
Award for William Billings ofBoston, the Sonneck Society's Irving Lowens Award for The
Core Repertory of Early American Psalmody, and the Music Library Association's
Vincent Duckles Award for his work on Early American Sacred Music Imprints,
1698-1810. For his book, America's Musical Life: A History, published in 2001, he
received awards from the Society for American Music and the American Society of
Composers, Authors, and Publishers.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Richard A. Crawford the
Hans T. David Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Musicology and
professor emeritus of music (musicology).
W. Reynolds Farley, Ph.D., professor of sociology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and research professor in the Institute for Social Research, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Farley earned his A.B. degree (1960) from the University of Notre Dame
and his M.A. (1963) and Ph.D. (1964) degrees from the University of Chicago. From
1964-67 he was an assistant professor at Duke University. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1967 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1969 and professor in 1976. He was appointed research scientist (currently
research professor) in 1979, and was honored with the Otis Dudley Duncan Collegiate
Professorship of Sociology in 1995.
Professor Farley's pioneering research on American race and ethnic relations
established him as one of the top sociologists and social demographers in the country,
and his studies of residential segregation profoundly impacted academic and social
policy circles. Professor Farley's research consistently sets the standards for empirical
accuracy, methodological rigor, and theoretical precision, and he speaks in a
dispassionate yet sympathetic voice that makes his work stand out. He has received
numerous awards, including the Sidney Spivak Fellowship for significant contributions
to intergroup relations, two book awards from the American Sociological Association,


285




and fellowships at the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American
Statistical Association. He also served as president of the Population Association of
America.
A highly effective and popular teacher, Professor Farley offered a wide range of
courses to generations of appreciative students, many of whom have built distinguished
careers of their own. Students line up each term to enroll in his mini-course on Detroit,
which is based on his long-standing interest in the city.  Professor Farley was
department chair from 1973-74 and from 1978-81, and was associate director of the
Population Studies Center from 1970-79.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming W. Reynolds Farley
professor emeritus of sociology and research professor emeritus.
Paul G. Federbush, Ph.D., professor of mathematics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Federbush received his B.S. degree (1955) from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and his M.A. (1958) and Ph.D. (1958) degrees from Princeton
University. From 1958-66 he was on the faculty at M.I.T. Professor Federbush joined
the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in 1966 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1967 and professor in 1971.
A mathematical physicist, Professor Federbush studied the part of field theory that
could be put on a firm mathematical foundation, and the applications of field theoretic
ideas to other areas of mathematics. In 1969, he wrote an influential paper that was an
infinitesimal version of Nelson's hypercontractive inequality in field theory. The
Federbush inequality later became known as the logarithmic Sobolev inequality and is
widely used in the theory of partial differential equations. Another paper, published in
1975, focused on the stability of matter and developed a new proof of a classic result of
Dyson and Lenard that a large neutral system of electrons and nuclei does not collapse.
His approach demonstrated that the technique of phase space localization is central to
the proof. His most impressive result was the proof of "Debye" screening: in a charged,
neutral gas the effects of the long-range electromagnetic interactions are screened out
(1981). More recently, he developed a set of orthogonal phase space localized
functions known as "wavelets," which are divergence free, and applied these wavelets
to the Navier-Stokes equations of fluid dynamics.
Professor Federbush taught a wide range of courses in applied mathematics,
mentored eleven doctoral students, and helped develop computer lab materials used
today in the introductory differential equations course. He received a Sloan Foundation
Fellowship in 1965 and a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Fellowship in 1975, and
he was a member of the Institute for Advanced Studies.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Paul G. Federbush
professor emeritus of mathematics.
Ronald Gibala, Ph.D., L. H. and F. E. VanVlack Professor of Materials Science
and Engineering and professor of materials and metallurgical engineering and materials
science and engineering in the College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 2004.
A native of New Castle, Pennsylvania, Professor Gibala received his B.S. degree
from the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 1960 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1962 and 1964, respectively.
He served as a faculty member at Case Western Reserve University from 1964-84, a
286




visiting researcher at the Centre d'Etudes Nucleaires de Grenoble from 1973-74, and
the director of the metallurgy program at the National Science Foundation from
1982-83. Professor Gibala joined the University of Michigan in 1984 as professor of
materials and metallurgical engineering and chair of the Department of Materials
Science and Engineering; he held an additional appointment as professor of
macromolecular science and engineering from 1992-01.
Recognized as one of the world's leading materials scientists, Professor Gibala has
published nearly 200 research papers on internal friction, mechanical properties of
refractory metals and intermetallics, defects in crystals, hydrogen embrittlement, and
polymers and semiconductor heterostructures. An outstanding leader in his field, he has
served as president of the Materials Research Society. Professor Gibala also has a
reputation for being among the most effective and inspiring teachers and administrators
in the College of Engineering. In his ten years as department chair, he built the
materials science and engineering program into one of the top programs in the country.
More recently, he served on the College of Engineering Executive Committee and as
director of the Electron Microbeam Analysis Laboratory.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and scientist for his dedicated
service by naming Ronald Gibala the L. H. and F. E. VanVlack Professor Emeritus of
Materials Science and Engineering and professor emeritus of materials and
metallurgical engineering and materials science and engineering.
Dennis J. Hegyi, Ph.D., professor of physics in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Hegyi earned his B.S. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1963 and his Ph.D. degree from Princeton University in 1968. He held a
National Academy of Sciences Fellowship at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies
from 1968-70, and he was an assistant professor at Boston University from 1970-73 and
at the Bartol Research Foundation from 1973-75. Professor Hegyi joined the University
of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1975 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1978 and professor in 1986.
Professor Hegyi's scholarship is characterized by its broad reach and enormous
ambition. He engaged the most fundamental questions of cosmology, which ranged
from a measurement of the primordial helium abundance to theoretical studies of the
properties of dark matter. Early in his career, he studied microwaves to show how
cosmic background radiation affected the rotational temperature of molecules in space,
and he was among the first to search for anisotropies in that radiation. His later work
on optical measurements that detected halos surrounding galaxies were among the
earliest observational steps in the still-continuing search for dark matter. Professor
Hegyi's vigorous theoretical analyses of the halos showed that they could not consist of
baryons and helped him to rule out an entire series of conjectures proposed by others.
Concurrently, he was performing theoretical work on the structure of neutron stars and
helped develop one of the very first successful charge-coupled image detectors for use
on a telescope. The detectors are a standard in today's astronomy.  He is currently
involved in an ongoing project to unify the special theory of relativity with a rational
concept of causality.
In addition to his extensive research work, Professor Hegyi developed several
small group tutorials for introductory physics courses, and he provided educational
direction for a research group of Ph.D. students and postdoctoral fellows.


287




The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Dennis J. Hegyi
professor emeritus of physics.
Bruce H. Karnopp, Ph.D., associate professor of mechanical engineering in the
College of Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Kamopp received his S.B. degree from Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in 1960, his Sc.M. degree from Brown University in 1963, and his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Wisconsin in 1965. He was an assistant professor at the
University of Toronto from 1965-68. Professor Kamopp joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1968 and was promoted to associate
professor in 1973.
Professor Kamopp's reputation as an instructor in dynamics is legendary, and his
teaching has impacted the professional lives of over 15,000 students during the last 36
years. Generations of students know Professor Kamopp as the "best instructor I've ever
had at this University." In recognition of his success as a teacher, he has received the
Amoco Foundation Faculty Teaching Award, the Arthur F. Thumau Professorship, the
College of Engineering Teaching Excellence Award, and the Michigan Association of
Governing Boards of State Universities Distinguished Faculty Award. He was also
selected as "Professor of the Term" six times by the University of Michigan Chapter of
Pi Tau Sigma.
As an assistant dean for the College of Engineering from 1984-89, Professor
Kamopp initiated recruiting programs for underrepresented minorities and out-of-state
students, and coordinated a project to improve access to the University for students in
rural areas of Michigan. From 1987-96, Professor Kamopp served on the University's
Admissions Advisory Committee; as chair of that committee, he helped develop the
mission statement that so clearly confirms the University's long-standing commitment
to diversity. He participated in the College's Summer Engineering Academy, preparing
new students for success at the University, and during his 13 years of service in the
College of Engineering Orientation Program, he was often the first face seen by the
entering class of students and their parents.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Bruce H. Kamopp
associate professor emeritus of mechanical engineering.
Raymond C. Kelly, Ph.D., professor of anthropology in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Kelly earned his B.A. degree from the University of Chicago in 1965
and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1966 and 1974,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in 1971 and
was promoted to assistant professor in 1974, associate professor in 1977, and professor
in 1986.
Combining outstanding fieldwork and cross-cultural research, Professor Kelly has
studied a wide range of topics, and his research and writings have focused on answering
questions of broad anthropological interest. In his book, Constructing Inequality,
Professor Kelly questions if any human society is truly egalitarian and brilliantly shows
how even a so-called "egalitarian" people achieve inequality in adulthood through a
"hierarchy of virtue." In a more recent text, Warless Societies and the Origin of War,
Professor Kelly explains why unsegmented societies remain warless, while some
segmented societies develop a principle of "social substitutability" that leads to group
conflict. He also authored Etoro Social Structure, a text on infant betrothal in New
288




Guinea, and The Nuer Conflict, which discusses the Nuer territorial expansion in Africa
and marked a major contribution to the literature on African segmentary systems. His
work is imaginative, rigorous, and attentive to empirical and historical data, and his
books are marvelous models for students of history, sociocultural anthropology, and
archaeology.
Professor Kelly received a National Endowment for the Humanities fellowship in
1979, a Center for Advanced Study fellowship in 1982, and a Guggenheim fellowship
in 1982. His honors also include the Excellence in Education Award (1991) and the
Excellence in Research Award (1996) from the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Raymond C. Kelly
professor emeritus of anthropology.
John E. Knodel, Ph.D., professor of sociology in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and research professor in the Institute for Social Research, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Knodel received his B.A. degree from Duke University in 1961 and his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Princeton University in 1963 and 1965, respectively. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty as an associate professor and assistant
research scientist in 1975 and was promoted to associate research scientist in 1979 and
professor and research scientist (currently research professor) in 1980.
One of the country's leading demographers, Professor Knodel has written or
collaborated on more than 200 scholarly articles, book chapters, and reports and authored
three major books. His earlier work on demographic change since the mid-eighteenth
century in Germany and on the fertility transition in Europe established him as a leading
figure in historical demography. During much of his career he studied the contemporary
determinants of fertility, sexual behavior and attitudes, changing family patterns, aging, and
general population trends in the developing world. He explored the social aspects of the
AIDS epidemic in Southeast Asia and discovered important implications for the parents of
adult sons and daughters who die from the disease. Professor Knodel's intellectually rich
body of work, much of which appears in the leading journals, is characterized by deep,
local knowledge of his cases, creative use of multiple research methods, and lucid and
compelling exposition. He has received numerous research fellowships and awards and
served as vice president of the Population Association of America and consultant to the
United Nations.
A talented and highly-regarded teacher, Professor Knodel taught both the core
undergraduate class on population problems and the core graduate course on social
demography and was a reliable and effective mentor to numerous graduate students. In
recognition of his teaching skills, Professor Knodel received the college's Excellence in
Education Award in 1991.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming John E. Knodel professor
emeritus of sociology and research professor emeritus.
Charles R. Krahmalkov, Ph.D., professor of ancient Near Eastern languages and
literatures in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Krahmalkov received his A.B. degree from     the University of
California-Berkeley in 1957 and his Ph.D. degree from Harvard University in 1965. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1965 and then
289




went to teach at the University of California from 1966-68. He returned to the
University as an assistant professor in 1968 and was promoted to associate professor in
1970 and professor in 1975.
Professor Krahmalkov is a renowned philologist and linguist of Northwest Semitic
languages, including Hebrew, Amorite, Ugaritic, and Phoenician-Punic. His particular
and unusual interest is Punic, the language of Carthage and North Africa during the
classical period and the mother tongue language of Saint Augustine. He devoted most
of his scholarly work to the exploration of this language. Professor Krahmalkov gained
international fame, in academia as well as in the popular press, with the decipherment
and discovery of the earliest western specimen of rhymed poetry in a Punic inscription,
dated to the late second century B.C. The leading authority in the field, he crowned his
work with three pioneering volumes on Phoenician-Punic.
During his long and exemplary career at the University of Michigan, Professor
Krahmalkov was continuously dedicated to teaching and caring for his students. Dear
to many, he has shown his erudite humanity, warmth, and spirit of collegiality and
support throughout the years.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Charles R. Krahmalkov
professor emeritus of ancient Near Eastern languages and literatures.
Andre Modigliani, Ph.D., associate professor of sociology in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Modigliani earned his A.B. degree from Harvard University in 1962 and his
Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1966. He was an assistant professor at
Harvard University from 1967-71 and joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
associate professor in 1972.
In his earliest research, Professor Modigliani sought to understand the impact of
the then emergent threat of nuclear confrontation on public opinion about the Cold War.
He examined the behavioral implications of alternative beliefs about the actual and
perceived goals of both the United States and the former Soviet Union, and the results
of this study were reported in a series of articles which became the basis for Untangling
the Cold War. Later, he developed a highly influential analysis of public opinion
toward military policy and an examination of some notable paradoxes in public
attitudes toward the federal deficit. He produced several seminal articles about political
behavior, including assessments of the evolving culture of the affirmative action issue
and media portrayals of the nuclear power issue. Recently, Professor Modigliani turned
his attention to studying the sources of obedience and defiance toward authority. He
wrote several papers and publications that reinterpreted the classic studies of obedience
and extended these studies to analyze the covert forms of resistance used by Holocaust
rescuers.
A very hard-working and dedicated teacher, Professor Modigliani was for many
years the mainstay of the department's teaching programs in deviance and social
psychology. He set high expectations for his students, and he more than met them half
way by presenting lectures and classroom exercises that were intellectually engaging
and stimulating. Professor Modigliani was that rare mentor who poured over the work
of his students and offered detailed feedback and generous advice. His life of teaching,
like his pursuit of knowledge, was tempered by a firm belief that learning requires equal
parts patience, compassion, and moral engagement.


290




The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Andre Modigliani
associate professor emeritus of sociology.
Theodore C. Moore, Jr., Ph.D., professor of geological sciences in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Moore received his B.S. degree from the University of North Carolina in
1960 and his Ph.D. degree from the University of California-San Diego, in 1968. He
served on the oceanography faculty at Oregon State University from 1968-75 and at the
University of Rhode Island from 1975-81. From 1981-89 he conducted research at
Exxon Production Research Company. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as
a professor in 1989 and was director of the Center for Great Lakes and Aquatic
Sciences from 1989-98.
Professor Moore's research and leadership have made him preeminent in the field
of paleoceanography. His studies on the Great Lakes led to a deeper understanding of
how the circum-Atlantic, post-glacial climate has been shaped, and his analysis of
sediment records yielded a continuing succession of new and profound understandings
about the history and process of global climate change over the short- and long-term.
He was also the director of the long-range climate investigation mapping and planning
project and its successor, the Cenozoic oceanography program.
Through his teaching and professional service, Professor Moore made important
contributions to the University and the community. He was the associate editor of the
American Geophysical Union journal, Paleoceanography. He also served as chair of
the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP) planning subcommittee and co-chair for
the IODP interim planning committee. He taught numerous graduate and undergraduate
courses and oversaw the work of many masters and doctoral students. In 2002 he was
honored by being selected as a Fellow of the American Geophysical Union.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Theodore C. Moore, Jr.,
professor emeritus of geological sciences.
H. Joan Morley, professor of linguistics in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Morley received her B.A. degree from the University of Northern Colorado
in 1952 and her M.S. and M.A. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1958 and 1968,
respectively. She joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in 1959. In 1966,
Professor Morley took a short leave to complete her M.A. degree and then returned to the
faculty as a lecturer in 1968. She was promoted to associate professor in 1983 and professor
in 1995.
Professor Morley was the country's leading expert in teaching pronunciation and
verbal skills to non-native speakers of English. She edited two books and authored ten
textbooks and numerous papers on this and related areas. Professor Morley was also an
outstanding presenter and workshop leader. She gave more than a hundred plenary or
keynote addresses at conferences, and later in her career she traveled throughout the world
on speaking engagements--often at the invitation of the Department of State. She was an
indefatigable supporter of the TESOL International Research Foundation and served as
president of this 15,000-strong association of ESL specialists in 1986-87.
Professor Morley served four terms as acting director of the University's English
Language Institute (ELI). She was a long-standing member of the Program in Linguistics'
Undergraduate Curriculum Committee; indeed, she was largely responsible for developing
the successful sub-concentration in applied linguistics and second language learning and
291




teaching. She was consistently one of the most successful and most appreciated teachers in
both the department and ELI. In 1994, ELI established the Morley Scholarship Fund to
honor Professor Morley and to celebrate her 25 years of service to the institute. To date, the
scholarship has brought more than 40 young scholars from around the world to Ann Arbor
to work on applied linguistics research projects.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming H. Joan Morley
professor emerita of linguistics.
James C. Snyder, Ph.D., professor of architecture and urban planning in the A.
Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Snyder received his B.Arch. degree from The Ohio State University
(1963) and his M.Arch. (1966), M.C.P. (1967), and Ph.D. (1971) degrees from the
University of Michigan.  He was an assistant professor at Georgia Institute of
Technology from 1971-75 and associate professor and associate dean of the School of
Architecture and Urban Planning at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee from
1976-80. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a professor in 1980.
Professor Snyder helped initiate the Studies in Urban Security Group (SUSG) in
1985. SUSG, an interdisciplinary faculty and student alliance, focused on applied
research in urban security and safety. Though this is a substantive area that greatly
affects the quality of urban life, it had been largely ignored by architects and urban
planners. SUSG placed a methodological emphasis on environmental design, risk
analysis, technology evolution, and strategic planning. It involved numerous faculty,
supported over 100 graduate students, and surpassed $3 million in sponsored funding.
The group's projects include plans for corporate and industrial facilities, public utilities,
community groups, municipalities, federal agencies, and the United Nations.
Professor Snyder was associate director of the Ph.D. program in urban and
regional planning from 1981-85 and chair of the Urban and Regional Planning Program
from 1982-84. He also served the college as associate dean (1996-99) and interim dean
(1997-98). His teaching exhibited a strong commitment to the integration of sound
fiscal and physical planning within a well-designed and safely-built environment.
Professor Snyder's work promoted faculty and student learning and made a positive
impact on the safety and security of many people.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James C. Snyder professor
emeritus of architecture and urban planning.
Yukio Tomozawa, D.Sc., professor of physics in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
Professor Tomozawa received his B.Sc. and D.Sc. degrees from Tokyo University
in 1952 and 1961, respectively, and he did post-doctoral work at Cambridge University,
the University College London, the University of Pisa, and the Institute for Advanced
Study. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1966
and was promoted to associate professor in 1968 and professor in 1972.
An exceptional researcher, Professor Tomozawa's work spans a wide range of
issues in fundamental interactions, including structural analyticity, consequences and
imposition of symmetries, and new physics phenomenology. Early in his career, he
published several influential articles that investigated partially conserved axial vector
currents, which produce rigorous results at low energies for pion-nucleon scattering and
proton decay matrix elements. Professor Tomozawa's contributions in this area will
292




stand the test of time. He turned his focus next to studying the nature of quark
confinement due to psi spectroscopy, and he developed a new understanding of
potentials in quantum chromodynamics. More recently, Professor Tomozawa shifted his
interests to neutrino, cosmological, and gravitational physics.  He proposed new
theoretical ideas in these areas and designed and carried out some of the resulting
experimental studies himself. Based on his research throughout the years, Professor
Tomozawa has published more than 80 articles in physics journals and conference
proceedings.
Professor Tomozawa is a dedicated teacher. He initiated an undergraduate course
in general relativity, and the classes he taught were very popular among students. He
supervised six Ph.D. dissertations and was invited as a visiting professor to many
international research centers.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Yukio Tomozawa
professor emeritus of physics.
Wei-Hsuin Yang, Ph.D., professor of applied mechanics in the College of
Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2004.
A native of Taiwan, Professor Yang received his B.Sc. degree from National
Cheng Kung University in 1958, his M.Sc. degree from the University of Washington in
1962, and his Ph.D. degree from Stanford University in 1965. He joined the University
of Michigan faculty in 1965 as an assistant professor and was promoted to associate
professor in 1969 and professor in 1975.
Professor Yang's research focused on the mathematical foundation of plasticity
theory. He developed a generalization of the well-known Holder inequality and applied
this generalization to problems of minimal surfaces, plasticity, and optimal designs. The
practical impact of this research to industrial manufacturing processes and structural
designs is only now being realized. His research interests extended further to solid
mechanics, applied  mathematics, numerical analysis, structural optimization,
manufacturing process optimization, structural crash worthiness, optional design of
wheels, and welding, and resulted in more than 65 publications.
Professor Yang was a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers,
the Society of Industrial and Applied Mathematics, and the scientific research society,
Sigma Xi. He served on numerous departmental, college, and university committees
including the Senate Assembly, the college's Coordinating Committee on Mechanics,
and the department's graduate, curriculum, admissions, and financial aid committees. A
popular teacher, Professor Yang mentored 19 Ph.D. students. Professor Yang was a
visiting scholar at many institutions including the Courant Institute of Mathematical
Science at New York University, Stanford University, the University of Stuttgart in
Germany, and the University of Perugia in Italy.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Wei-Hsuin Yang
professor emeritus of applied mechanics.
M emiorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents
this month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Colsent Agendas On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.


293




Alternative Asset Commitment (DCMIVL.P.)


On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $10.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
DCM IV L.P., a venture capital limited partnership.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Emergence Capital Partners, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents approved
commitment of $5.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Emergence Capital Partners,
L.P., a Silicon Valley-based venture capital fund that will provide growth capital to early
and development stage technology-enabled service companies.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Europa Fund II, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to ~20.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio
to Europa Fund II, L.P., a pan-European real estate fund.
Alternative Asset Commitment (HEI Hospitality Fund, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $15.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
HEI Hospitality Fund, L.P., a $275 million real estate fund.
206 Glen Avenue, Ann Arbor, Michigan
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved acquisition of the property at 206 Glen Avenue, Ann Arbor,
Michigan at the negotiated price of $425,000, subject to the University's satisfying itself
with the environmental condition of the site and otherwise completing due diligence.
Edward Henry Kraus Building Elevators 1 and 3 Replacement
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved a project for replacement of Elevators 1 and 3 in the Edward
Henry Kraus Building as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) East Ann Arbor
Ambulatory Surgery and Medical Procedures Center
Executive Vice President Slottow introduced Scott Haywood of Albert Kahn
Associates. Mr. Haywood displayed a site plan of the East Ann Arbor properties. He
noted that the goals of the project were to create as efficient a floor plan as possible; to
create a state of the art facility; and to create a building that blends in and is reflective of
the existing architecture while displaying its own unique identity. He noted that the
building will be primarily on one level with mechanical and electrical space situated in a
lower level. He reviewed the floor plan and then displayed images of the exterior of the
building.
It was noted that after the completion of this building and the Rachel Upjohn
Building, the entire site could accommodate approximately 800,000 square feet of
additional building space, while preserving the natural features of the site.


294




On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the schematic design for the University of Michigan Hospital
and Health Centers' East Ann Arbor Ambulatory Surgery and Medical Procedures
Center Project as presented at the meeting.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 5 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded
by Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Lease Amendment with Dong-Soo Kim
The Regents approved an amendment to an existing lease for property located at 711
Byron Road, Howell, Michigan, owned by Dong-Soo Kim. Because Dong-Soo Kim is
also a University of Michigan employee, this lease amendment falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.     The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Dong-Soo
Kim, M.D.
2.   The current lease between Dr. Kim and the University of Michigan is set to expire on
April 30, 2004. The amendment will extend the term of the lease by an additional
twenty-four months until April 30, 2006. The University will pay a monthly rate of
$5,197.50 for the remainder of the amended term.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact of Dr. Kim's 100% ownership of the
building being leased. Dr. Kim will receive revenues generated by the leasing of the
property to the University.
Purchasing Contract with Measurement Systems, Inc.
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with Measurement Systems, Inc. to
purchase a four-channel EMG amplifier and power supply. Because Charles B. Woolley,
president and shareholder of Measurement Systems, Inc., is also a University of Michigan
employee, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Biomechanics Research Laboratory and Measurement Systems, Inc.
2.   The product to be provided is an EMG amplifier and power supply at a cost of $1,480.
3.   Charles B. Woolley's pecuniary interest arises from his status as president and
shareholder of Measurement Systems, Inc.
Lease with C-3 Partners
The Regents approved a lease agreement with C-3 Partners for property located at
535 W. William Street. Because William C. Martin, a partner in C-3 Partners, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the lease agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
C-3 Partners.
2.   The service to be provided is the lease of the fourth floor at 535 W. William for a
period of five years, beginning June 1, 2004 through May 31, 2009, at a monthly rate
of $11,111.


295




3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that William C. Martin, a University of
Michigan employee, is a partner of C-3 Partners.
Amendment to License Agreements between the University of Michigan and
Keracure, LLC
The Regents approved an amendment to two license agreements with Keracure,
LLC, to provide for the date upon which the University of Michigan and Wayne State
University receive equity in Keracure, certain milestone payments, and payments of
patent costs. Because Dr. Riley Rees, a University of Michigan employee, also holds an
equity interest in Keracure, this license agreement amendment falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.      The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Keracure,
LLC.
2.   Licensing terms include: transfer of equity to Michigan upon closing of the required
financing round in June 2004; payment of a license fee upon first commercial sale;
payment of annual fees and gross sublicensing revenues, of which one-half may be
credited prior to first commercial sale; and diligence terms and milestone payments.
3.   Dr. Rees' pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Keracure. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University
from the company.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Oncolmmune
The Regents approved a license agreement with Oncolmmune to practice and
commercialize a patented invention developed and owned by the University of Michigan,
known as "The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) and S6K as targets for tuberous
sclerosis" (UM File No. 2404). Because Dr. Kunliang Guan holds an equity interest in
Oncolmmune and is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Oncolmmune.
2.   Licensing terms include: equity in the company at a defined valuation; royalties to the
University scaling down as Net Sales increase; royalties of the same on sublicense
revenue; exclusive right to practice and commercialize the technology, subject to
certain rights reserved by the University to practice it for research and educational
purposes, and the University retains ownership; minimum annual royalties beginning
in 2011; and the term of the agreement is for the life of the patent.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Guan arises from  his ownership interest in
Oncolmmune. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of royalties
received by the University from the company.
New Intellectual Property Revenue Distribution Policy
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved a revision of the 1996 intellectual property revenue distribution
policy. The revised policy follows:


296




Distribution of Revenue from Royalties or Sale of Equity Interest
Revenue Distribution Plan
The goals of this revenue distribution plan include creating a strong incentive for faculty participation in
technology transfer and supporting further investment in research and technology transfer activities
generally. All net revenues, aside from those going to inventors, resulting from this plan should be used
broadly for research and educational purposes. The distribution formula is divided into three revenue
categories:
(a) Net revenue derived from intellectual property up to $200,000 will be distributed as follows:
50% to the inventors, 17% to the originating department, 18% to the originating school or
college, and 15% to the central administration.
(b) Net revenue derived from intellectual property over $200,000 and up to $2 million will be
distributed as follows: 30% to the inventors, 20% to the originating department, 25% to the
originating school or college, and 25% to the central administration.
(c) Net revenue derived from intellectual property over $2 million will be distributed as
follows: 30% to the inventors, 35% to the originating school or college, and 35% to the
central administration.
The foregoing revised revenue distribution plan will apply only to licenses (including options) and
assignments that are granted after the Regents approve this revised plan. This revised distribution plan
may be applied to existing licenses and assignments by agreement between the Vice President for
Research and the relevant unit(s) provided that the inventor's share will not thereby be disadvantaged.
Insofar as the overall allocation of revenues derived from intellectual property between faculty and the
University remains as described above, Executive Officers may determine how to allocate the University
portion in accord with University budget authority. Any change in the overall allocation between
inventors and the University will require Regental approval.
Faculty Option to Redirect Personal Portion of Revenue Distribution
Faculty will have the option of directing the University to allocate all or some portion of their personal
share to a University unit.
Patent Cost Recovery
Beginning in FY 2005, patent expenses above the annual central budget allocation, such allocation not to
fall below $800,000 in any fiscal year, will be recovered from all IP revenues prior to any distribution,
thus sharing this expense across all inventors and units.
Faculty Ownership of Equity
In cases where an inventor obtains ownership interests in a business entity as a result of a grant of
intellectual property rights by the University to the entity and/or as compensation for consulting by the
inventor associated with a transfer of Intellectual Property rights, and in cases of reassignment to
inventors, any resulting revenues to the University as the result of such grant will be distributed only to
the originating unit(s), the Schools or Colleges, and the central administration.
The inventor(s)' potential for revenue under the University's standard distribution plan outlined above is
exchanged for the potential rewards from the license or assignment.
Exceptions
In exceptional cases, in order to benefit the University, the vice president for research, in consultation
with the relevant unit(s), may make modifications in this distribution plan and shall record a description
of the exceptional circumstances.
Equity received by the University as a result of technology transfer shall be treated in accordance with
applicable University policy.


297




Approval of Academic Calendar for 2006-2007


On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the 2006-2007 academic calendar for the Ann Arbor campus.
Approval of Changes to Academic Calendars for 2004-2005 and 2005-2006
Provost Courant submitted a request to revise previously approved academic
calendars for Winter terms 2005 and 2006 to eliminate the overlap of the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies commencement exercises and the last day of final
exams.
Regent McGowan inquired whether the dates of the 2005 winter vacation
correspond to the dates of the Ann Arbor Public Schools (AAPS) winter vacation.
Provost Courant responded that the dates of the two vacations are always coordinated
and that they were the same but he would check again and report back.
Regent McGowan said that "on that condition" she would move approval of the
changes to the academic calendars for 2004-2005 and 2005-2006, as described. Regent
Deitch seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. [Note: Subsequent to
the meeting it was learned that the 2005 AAPS set its winter vacation so as not to
coincide with the University's vacation, due to the early occurrence of Easter in 2005.]
Public Comments, Continued
The Regents heard comments from Jon Manning, vice president of Flint STRIVE,
regarding proposed purchase of 1108 Lapeer Street in Flint from the University of
Michigan-Flint.
The Regents requested feedback from the administration on the proposal put forth
by Mr. Manning.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:40 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for June 17, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary of the University


298




JUNE MEETING, 2004


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 17, 2004
The Regents convened at 2:00 p.m. in the Great Lakes Room, Palmer Commons
Building. Present were President Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard,
McGowan, Newman, Richner, and Taylor. Also present were Provost Courant,
Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice
President May, Chancellor Mestas, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President
and Secretary Tedesco, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent
White and Vice President Rudgers were absent.
President Coleman called the meeting to order and noted that the first order of
business would be a panel discussion about intercollegiate athletics. She introduced the
participants, who included Myles Brand, president of the National Collegiate Athletic
Association ("NCAA"), Jim Delaney, commissioner of the Big Ten Conference ("Big
Ten"), and Bill Martin, University of Michigan athletic director.
Panel Discussion - Intercollegiate Athletics
Bill Martin praised the leadership and guidance provided by Mr. Delaney on behalf
of the Big Ten Conference. Mr. Martin noted that Dr. Brand has been a leader in
promoting academic and eligibility reforms in intercollegiate athletics, and he was fully in
support of Dr. Brand's efforts.
Dr. Brand commented that the NCAA is interested in improving the academic
success of student athletes and described the dramatic reforms that have been put in
place to help achieve this goal. These include raising the standards for initial eligibility
for athletic scholarships and requiring that demonstrated progress be made towards a
degree over a five-year period to maintain eligibility. Member institutions are being
held accountable for maintaining these standards and sanctions have been put in place if
they do not. Dr. Brand commented that he is committed to ensuring that every student
athlete has a genuine opportunity to receive an education and to graduate.
Mr. Delaney commented on post-season college football. He noted that the Big
Ten believes in the bowl tradition but does not believe in a college football playoff, and
he described how the decision was made to integrate the Rose Bowl with the bowl
games organized by other collegiate athletic conferences. The Rose Bowl tradition will
be reestablished by holding an annual Big Ten - Pac Ten championship game every
year in the Rose Bowl, unless one of those two teams is ranked first or second.
The panelists then responded to questions about compliance requirements,
financing of the NCAA and collegiate sports, Title IX and gender equity, subsidization
of athletic department budgets by the universities' general funds, freshman ineligibility,
and the role of governing boards and presidents in the oversight of athletic programs.
The session concluded at 3:10 p.m. and was followed by a 10-minute break.


299




Public Comments


The Regents heard comments from Jim Mogensen, citizen, about the town-gown
relationship with respect to housing, and from the following individuals about the planned
changes to SAPAC: Lisa Bakale-Wise, student; Mia White, student; Paul Douglas Wise,
citizen; Ann Chi, student; and Kathryn Turnock, student.
Discussion of Planned Changes to SAPAC Services
Vice President Harper responded to questions from the Regents about the changes
being planned for the Sexual Assault Prevention and Awareness Center (SAPAC) that
have prompted the negative reaction from students at the last several Public Comments
sessions. She noted that student concerns about the need for safe spaces, accurate data
collection, a campus-based crisis line, easily accessible services, and a more consultative
process when making significant changes have been and continue to be very important in
the planning process. She reported that the changes are necessary to allow efforts to be
focused on the prevention of sexual assault and to assure that services meet the needs of
all students, and she said that the University is committed to assuring that its services are
truly meeting the needs of survivors of sexual assault.
Vice President Harper provided details of the plans being put in place regarding
provision of services to survivors of sexual assault and further explained the rationale
and intended outcomes for the upcoming changes in organizational structure and service
delivery models. She said that a more systematic, integrated, educational approach to
sexual violence is needed in order to really make a difference in prevention.
Furthermore, she pointed out that the University has a responsibility to consider the
well-being of all students, including perpetrators as well as survivors, and that there
must be an integrated approach to provision of support services. Vice President Harper
noted that the current system is effective for a small number of survivors but does not
reach many others in need of services. She also emphasized that advocacy work and
therapy are fundamentally different undertakings that should not be combined in one
individual service provider.
Vice President Harper commented that administrative staff is well aware of the
reasons that the students are opposed to the direction being taken, and staff will
continue to listen to and address students' concerns as appropriate.
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman commented on the death of Ann Arbor citizen Robert Teeter and
pointed out that he was a nationally-known expert in electoral politics and also provided
wise counsel and support to the University of Michigan.
President Coleman reported that Regent White's absence is due to her annual
active duty service as a captain in the U.S. Army reserves. She commented on
accolades received over the past month by University students, faculty, and alumni and
observed that the University had placed second, its highest ranking ever, in the annual
U.S. Sports Academy "Directors' Cup" Division I race.


300




Report on Undergraduate Admissions


President Coleman observed that in the wake of the historic Supreme Court decision
of 2003, there has been extensive public interest in the University's revised undergraduate
admissions process. She said that Provost Courant would be giving an update on how the
new process worked and the makeup of the incoming class that will matriculate in Fall
2004. She praised the staff of the Office of Undergraduate Admissions and of the Office
of the Provost for their work in revamping the admissions process in a short amount of
time and noted that several factors may have contributed to discouraging some students,
particularly minorities, from submitting applications. She said the University would focus
its efforts on removing any barriers to full participation.
Provost Courant described the changes in the admissions process that had been
implemented following the Supreme Court decision. These include a new application
form as part of a new process that met the court's requirements for a more holistic and
individualized admissions procedure and evaluation. New staff were hired to review
applications and additional training was provided for all staff. The budget for the
Office of Undergraduate Admissions was increased by $1.8 million in FY 2003-2004 to
accommodate the change in evaluation procedures.
Provost Courant reported that the total number of applications declined from
25,918 in 2003 to 21,261 in 2004 (an 18% decrease). He noted that despite the
decreased number of applications, the "deposit yield" increased by 13% for Fall 2004,
indicating that a higher proportion of admitted students than ever before had applied
with the intention of accepting offers of admission. Indications are that the freshman
class for Fall 2004 will be the largest ever, and staff in housing, the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, and the College of Engineering are planning
accordingly to insure that students receive a high-quality educational experience.
Provost Courant observed that the number of applications received from
under-represented minority students had declined by 21 %, while the "deposit yield" had
increased by 15% over the previous year. He noted that the decline in applications from
this population is part of a national trend, and the reasons for it are not well understood.
The University is very concerned about this situation and will be working hard to insure
that the campus presents a welcoming atmosphere to all students. It is believed that
publicity over the affirmative action lawsuit may have contributed to misperceptions
about the University's commitment to a broadly diverse student body, and efforts are
being made to communicate the meaning of the Supreme Court decision and the
University's commitment to affirmative action.
He noted that the admissions process is reviewed every year, and the application
and review process is being reviewed to see if any changes are necessary. Feedback has
been received from a broad array of potential students and parents, faculty, high school
counselors, and admissions staff to evaluate all aspects of the recently completed
admissions process, and some modifications will be made. He also noted that the
University's commitment to meeting the full demonstrated financial need of Michigan
resident undergraduate students has not changed.


301




Annual Reports of Committees on the Economic Status of the Faculty, All Three
Campuses
Ann Arbor Campus. Professor Fred Askari presented the annual CESF report for
the Ann Arbor campus. Among the points he made was that health insurance coverage
for faculty retirees is not guaranteed and is considered to be an area of vulnerability. He
also distributed salary data and discussed faculty compensation issues more generally. He
praised the cooperation the committee had received from the provost's office and from
other administrative areas in collecting the data, and he urged that efforts be continued to
make this data more transparent. Key trends that emerged are discrepancies in aggregate
salaries by gender, particularly at the high end of the pay scale; unpublished salary
supplements; lower compensation for nontenured faculty; the "loyalty tax"; the use of
incentive pay; and the notion of whether pay is optimal.
Flint Campus. Professor Jami Anderson presented the report of the Flint campus
CESF. She commented that faculty at the UM-Flint were the only faculty at a Michigan
public university who did not receive a salary increase last year. Thus, the effects on
the faculty of inflation, salary compression, and faculty salaries relative to peer
institutions have all worsened during the past year, making it difficult to recruit and
retain good faculty.  The CESF recommends a one-time equity payment of 2% to
compensate for last year's losses and an additional increase for this year. Salary
compression and merit pay would have to be addressed over the long term. She
observed that tuition, which is the main source of income for the campus, does not
increase at nearly the rate as do the expenses it must cover.
Dearborn Campus. Chancellor Little read a summary of the report that had been
prepared by the Dearborn campus CESF, chaired by Professor Marlene Gordon. He
complimented the committee for the quality of its report. He noted that the report
focused on issues of salary comparison and equity, salary compression, and benefits.
The committee concluded that there is a significant amount of salary compression on
the Dearborn campus. With respect to benefits, the committee noted that only one
Michigan public university reported paying less for employee benefits than the
University of Michigan. The committee recommendations are that if any equity funding
becomes available, it should be provided to associate and full professors; that a salary
review be conducted when salary ratios among the faculty ranks differ from national
averages; and that complete salary and wage payment data be provided for the Dearborn
campus, as has been done for the Ann Arbor campus.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning. It received the semi-annual report on M-Care; received
a preliminary review of the FY 2005 Athletic Department budget; and reviewed the
proposed FY 2005 Hospitals and Health Systems budget. The committee also was
updated regarding the "Orders Management Project" underway at the Hospitals and
Health System. He reported that the committee was pleased to learn that the FY 2004
Hospitals and Health Systems budget is exceeding expectations.
Compensation and Personnel Committee. Regent Maynard reported that the
committee had not met this month but would have a report in July.


302




The Regents then turned to the regular agenda. Regent Taylor left the meeting at
this point, at 4:00 p.m.
Consent Agenda
Regent McGowan commented that at the last meeting she had moved approval of the
May minutes based on the information provided at that time about the Ann Arbor Public
Schools' winter break schedule. She said that she and Provost Courant had agreed that
this information will be taken into account much earlier when setting the next University
academic calendar.
Minutes.     Vice President Tedesco submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of May 20, 2004.
Reports.    Executive Vice President Slottow       submitted the Investment Report,
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research    Report.     Vice   President Ulaby     submitted   the report of Projects
Established, May 1-May 31, 2004.
University of Michigan IHealth System, No additional report was submitted.
Division of Student Affairs. No additional report was submitted.
University of     [icigan-Dearborn. No additional report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Flint. No additional report was submitted.
VMichiganl  Student Assemnrbly Report.       This report was tabled until later in the
meeting.
Voluntary Support.        Vice President May submitted the report of voluntary
support as of May 31, 2004.
Advanced Risc Machines, Ltd., Cambridge, England
for research in the College of Engineering.................................................... $39,403
Ann and Bob Aikens Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and
for the Aikens International Travel Initiative in the School of Art and Design.................... 53,000
Keith E. Alessi, Lexington, Virginia
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................  20,000
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, Inc., Washington, D. C.
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................... 497,500
ALS of Michigan, Inc., Detroit
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 35,000
Altair Engineering, Inc., Troy
for W FUM  and W UOM...............................................................  13,260
Altarum Institute, Ann Arbor
for the Altarum/Erim Russell D. O'Neal Professorship in the College of Engineering............. 150,000
Alzheimer's Disease Research, Rockville, Maryland
for research  in  the College  of Pharmacy.................................................. 12,500
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 99,842
American Legacy Foundation, Washington, D. C.
for support in  the School of Public Health...............................................  122,762
American Trucking Associations, Innc., Alexandria, Virginia
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.......................................... 15,000
Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc., Saint Louis, Missouri
for employee matching  gifts............................................................  10,650


303




Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment, the Medical School, and
the University Hospitals............................................................. 32,500
Annenberg Foundation, Radnor, Pennsylvania
for the Ford School Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............... 1,000,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................................... 100,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health................................ 78,583
Beverly A. Bain Estate
for the Shawn Taylor Shroh Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn........... 112,000
Bank One Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the University Musical Society................................................. 10,000
Donald R. Berg, Grand Rapids
2,852 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Donald R. and Sally Berg Research Fund in the Medical School........................ 101,035
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Museum of Art and
for WUOM....................................................................... 11,200
Joseph Braver, Delray Beach, Florida
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 10,000
Bredt Family Fund of the Community Foundation Silicon Valley, San Jose, California
for support in the Museum of Art.................................................... 500,000
Gerald Bright, Beverly Hills
420 shares of SBC Communications, Inc., common stock
for support in the Law School.................................................... 10,181
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 10,633
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 253,216
Central Surgical Association, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School................................................. 10,000
ChevronTexaco, Concord, California
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration....................................14,000
Cohen Family Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 200,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint............................................  20,000
Community Systems Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Bill Drake Memorial Room in the School of Natural Resources and Environment........... 25,000
Eugene Cordes, Newtown Square, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Pharmacy.............................................. 15,000
William J. Cowlin, Crystal Lake, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics...........................................  10,000
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 26,875
Terence C. Davies, Virginia Beach, Virginia
for the Terence C. Davies Prize Award in the Medical School................................ 21,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 16,500
Detroit Regional Chamber, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...................................... 10,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for research in the School of Public Health............................................... 25,000
Edwin C. Drescher Trust
for support in the Medical School................................................. 10,000
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for the Doris Duke Conservation Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment... 188,562
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the E. Malcolm Field Research Fellowship in the Medical School.......................... 100,000
Ethel and James Flinn Family Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 140,252
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and
at the University of Michigan................................................ 244,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................................. 163,940


304




Foundation for Digestive Health and Nutrition, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 41 500
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation, Troy
for the Frankel Fellowship in Jewish Communal. Service in the School of Social Work and
for the Judaic Studies Director's Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 12,500
Ronald Freedman Trust
for the Ronald and Deborah Freedman Fund in the Institute for Social Research.................. 25,000
GE Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for em ployee  m atching  gifts............................................................  52,364
Gelman Educational Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Public Health................................................ 100,000
General Motors Foundation, Ann Arbor
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 35,726
Glaucoma Research Foundation, San Francisco, California
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 18,000
Charlene L. Glerum, Grand Rapids
for the KEC Building Fund in the Medical School........................................... 10,000
Daniel W. Gorenflo, Grosse Pointe
for the William Clippert Gorenflo Research Fund in the Medical. School.........................1 0,000
James P. Hackett, Grand Rapids
for the Lee C. Bollinger Award in the Gerald R. Ford School. of Public Policy.................... 10,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California,
for support in. the Institute for Social Research,
for the Sakai Educational Partners Program in the School of Information, and
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 390,000
Jeffrey K. Hoffman, Dayton, Ohio
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School......................... 20,000
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School......................... 10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 35,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for support in the College of Engineering................................................. 202,173
Toshiji Iwasaka, Osaka, Japan
for support in the Medical School........................................................ 25,000
Jewell 1987 Revocable Trust
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School....................................... 10,000
Raymond B. Johnson, Jupiter, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................. 10,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman., New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 19,992
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Institute for Social Research and the School of Public Health.................. 669,988
Merritt Johnston Estate
for scholarships in the School of Education and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 30,792
Jerrold M. Jung, Bloomfield Hills
for the Rouge River Bird Observatory at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................... 10,000
Just for Kids, 'Inc., Northville
for support in the Medical School and
for the Camp Michitanki Transplant Fund in the University Hospitals........................... 12,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 375,075
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Schools of Education and Natural Resources and Environment and
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 85,400
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................... 145852
Michael H. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Klein Fund for Lupus Research and for the Michael and Marcia Klein Research Fund in
the Medical School.................................................................. 100,200
James A. and Faith Knight Foundation., Ann Arbor
for the Jean Campbell Research Fund in the Center for the Education of Women.................. 30,000
Andrew J. Krapohl, Lincoln
for the Krapohl Resident Research Education Fund in the Medical School........................ 10,000
Richard P. Kughn, Dearborn
for the Linda and Richard Kughn Endowed Scholarship Fund at
the University of Miichigan-Dearborn..................................................... 20,000
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 85,548
305




Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support in the Medical School, the School of Public Health, and
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 376,567
Lustgarten Foundation for Pancreatic Cancer Research, Bethpage, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 50,000
Lynch, Jones & Ryan, New York, New York
for the Harry H. Jones Endowment Fund in the School of Business Administration................. 10,000
David R. Macdonald Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Law School......................................................... 13,000
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Taylor
for Armenian studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 20,000
Olivia P. Maynard Trust
for the Olivia Maynard and S. Olof Karlstrom Faculty Award in the School of Social Work......... 20,000
Robert R. McCormick Tribune Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 15,000
Keith S. McKenzie, Santa Cruz, California
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School.............................. 10,000
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
350 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics and
for the Harry H. Jones Endowment Fund in the School of Business Administration................. 10,670
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
6,000 shares of Gillette company common stock
for the Depression Center Construction Fund in the Medical School.......................... 248,250
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the New Direction Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 138,000
Jeffrey H. Miro, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................................... 10,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research at the University of Michigan-Flint.......................................... 35,450
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 35,751
Gregory T. Mutz, Barrington, Illinois
for support in the Law School........................................................... 32,500
National Alliance for Autism Research, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 23,500
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 10,500
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................... 43,750
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 79,281
National Public Broadcasting, LLC, New York, New York
for WUOM...................................................................... 11,960
Michael J. Novoson, Bal Harbour, Florida
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................ 90,000
David and Lucille Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for the David and Lucille Packard Fellowship Fund and other support in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 125,000
Mary M. Pfeiffer Estate
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School..................................... 57,801
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Dentistry and Music,
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
for the Office of Technology Transfer.............................................  25,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and
for the University Hospitals................................................. 22,136
Richard W. Pogue, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 20,000
Polo Fields Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Polo Fields Foundation Wellness Fund in the Medical School......................... 30,000
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts...................................................20,475
Martin R. Prince, New York, New York
for research in the College of Engineering............................................ 20,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
10,000 par of Ford Motor Company Corporate Bond and a cash gift
306




for the John A. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Department of Chemical Engineering.................................................. 10,773
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Indianapolis Indiana
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 10,000
Rockwell Automation Trust Match Program, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................................................................... 1 0250
David M. Roebuck, Bryan, Ohio
for support in  the Department of Athletics.................................................  10,000
Pauline Rothmeyer Estate
for support in the Medical School, in memory of Dr. Cameron Haight.......................... 1582333
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Law School........................................................... 14,500
Mary A. Sellers, Ann Arbor
for the Lena M. and Richard J. Sellers Memorial Scholarship in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 25,000
Shane Family Fund of the Jewish Community Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Gregory Shane Fund in the Medical School.......................................... 34,000
David T. Shelby, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the School of Business Administration........................................ 12,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Field Hoclkey Turf Project in the Department of Athletics............................... 20,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 20,000
Smith Richardson Foundation, Inc., Greensboro, North Carolina
for support in the Institute of Social Research and the School of Business Administration.......... 160,947
Alene M. Smith, Ann Arbor
for support in the Museum of Art and
for the Allan F. Smith Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music............................ 10,040
David H. Smith, Irvine, California
for support in the College of Engineering.................................................. 25,000
Margaret Sokol, New York, New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Faculty Award in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies and
for the Sokol Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 300,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Department of Athletics and in the School of Education....................... 182,450
SRC Education Alliance, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for support in the College of Engineering................................................. 250,000
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for the Edna Bailey Sussman Fund in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............ 28,605
Marian V. W. Swortzel Charitable Trust
for the Marian Vaughn Williams Swortzel Charitable Lead Trust Scholarship Fund at
the University of Michigan............................................................. 86,271
Synplicity, Inc., Sunnydale, California
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 12,500
Takata Automotive Systems Laboratory, Inc., Farmington H-ills
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 50,000
Taubman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley J. and Margaret Winkelman Scholarship Fund in
the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
in memory of Stanley Winkelman....................................................... 10,000
Texas Instruments, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 35,000
United Audit Systems, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............................... 10,800
Universal Credit Setvices, Inc., Hartland
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............................... 105800
University Cancer Foundation, Southfield
for the Frank S. Moran Lectureship in Comprehensive Cancer Center........................... 89,000
Thomas W. Van Dyke, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Thomas W. and Sharon E. Van Dyke Scholarship Fund in the Law School................. 10,000
Peter M. Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................... 25,000
Walter H. Weiner Philanthropic Fund of the Anti-Defamation League Foundation, New York, New York
for the Bertranm J. Askwith Prize for the Michigan Journalism Fellow Program in
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies......................................... 10,000
Irving Weinstein Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 25,000


307




Elizabeth Ruthruff Wilson Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Marilyn Mason Scholarship and other support in the School of Music..................... 13,000
Wintek Electro-Optics Corporation, Ann Arbor
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................  12,000
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support in the Medical School........................................................ 14,000
John G. Young, Levering
492 shares of T. C. F. Financial Corporation common stock
for the John and Elizabeth Young Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Leigh J. Young Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 25,862
Bruce Zenkel, New York, New York
for the Zenkel Presidential Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 10,000
Zenkel Foundation, White Plains, New York
for the Zenkel Presidential Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and  the Arts..........................................  50,000
Richard T. Zwirner, Lake Forest, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 10,000
The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
DaimlerChrysler, Rochester Hills
an Ni-MH battery to be used for hybrid vehicle research for the College of Engineering
Dunning Toyota, Ann Arbor
a 2001 Toyota Tundra Pickup truck WFUM
Dwight Orthopedic Rehabilitation Company, Madison Heights
a Cybex 340 Isokinetic Dynamometer for the Department of Kinesiology
Hodges Imported Cars, Inc., Femrndale
one 2002 Subaru Forester for WFUM
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
20 Intel PRO/Wireless 500 LAN starter kits for the College of Engineering
Jack A. Rounick, Radnor, Pennsylvania
a Beverly Pepper sculpture for the Museum of Art
Clarence Wolf, Radnor, Pennsylvania
a receipt for the services of bandmaster Francis Johnson dated June 24, 1842, for the Clements Library
Robert Tibaldi, Plymouth
a 19 foot Lightning sailboat for the University of Michigan
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:


Andrew Abel, Pinckney
Lynn Alandt, Dearborn
Alticor, Inc., Ada
Altria, New York, New York
Another Ann Arbor, Inc., Ann Arbor
Arhaus Furniture, Walton Hills, Ohio
Aspen Institute, Washington, D. C.
Lillian M. Baklarz, Allen Park
Beckman Coulter, Inc., Fullerton, California
Douglas A. Bloom, Birmingham
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
Burlington Resources Foundation, Houston, Texas
Buying Time, LLC, Washington, D. C.
Vivian L. Carpenter, Detroit
Cayman Chemical Company, Inc., Ann Arbor
Clark Hill PLC, Detroit
Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Lansing
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
Excelda Manufacturing, Brighton
Sherwood and Fanne Field Trust
Kevan K. Flanigan, Manhattan Beach, California
Elena A. Ford, Dearborn
Ilene H. Forsyth, Ann Arbor
Foundation for Fighting Blindness, Owings Mills,
Maryland
GlaxoSmithKline, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Chevrolet Motor Division General Motors Corporation,
Warren


Goldberg, Kohn, Bell, Black, Rosenbloom & Moritz,
Ltd., Chicago, Illinois
Thomas Gottlieb and Carol Kirsh Family Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts
John F. Greene, Silverthorne, Colorado
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
Mary Jo C. Hewitt Trust
Ronald R. Humphrey, Omaha, Nebraska
Daniel K. Hussey, Powell, Ohio
International Business Machines, Endicott, New York,
New York
Grace Kachaturoff, West Bloomfield
George L. Kenyon, Ann Arbor
Wolfgang Knapp, Brussels, Belgium
Sally LaMarra, Brighton
Andrew J. Lansing, Chicago, Illinois
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
Leuthold Group, Minneapolis, Minnesota
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
Jeffrey N. Lutz, Grosse Pointe Farms
James W. MacKenzie, Princeton, New Jersey
George S. MacManus Company Rare Books,
Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
George S. MacManus Company Rare Books,
Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
William C. Marcoux, London, England
Mars Industries, Inc., Detroit


JU6




Matthaei Foundation, Birmingham                Science AAAS, Washington, D. C.
Edwin E. Meader, Kalamazoo                     Stephen B. Selbst, New York, New York
Michelin Americas Research and Development     Sleeping Bear Dunes Visitors Bureau, Glen Arbor
Corporation, Greenville, South Carolina        Speckhard-Knight Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington     Herbert Strather, Detroit
MSC Software Corporation, Santa Ana, California  King C. Stutzman, Wilmette, Illinois
Muth Company, LLC, Sheboygan, Wisconsin        Symbol Technologies, Inc., Holtsville, New York
Orthopedic Institute of Michigan, Livonia      Time Warner, Inc., New York, New York
Quota Club of Flint, Inc., Flint               John C. Tonkin, Ormond Beach, Florida
Radiological Society of North America R & E,   Jack L. Versau, Coldwater
Chicago, Illinois                        Harvey A. Wagner, Dearborn
Charles Reinhart Company Realtors, Ann Arbor   Michele Walsh, Lake Forest, Illinois
Paul C. Robertson, Jr., Birmingham             Jane M. Waterman, Georgetown, Texas
Edward H. Saer, III, Little Rock, Arkansas     Zilber Family Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
Personnel Actions. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Carter, Deborah F., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Education, School of Education, September 1, 2004
Chavous, Tabbye M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Education, School of Education, September 1, 2004
Ellis, Nicholas C., Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004
Jacobson, Jon A., M.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004
Kapila, Sunil D., Ph.D., Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 1, 2004
Khanna, Vikramaditya S., S.J.D., Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2004
Lagarias, Jeffrey C., Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004
MacLatchy, Laura M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004
Sarter, Martin F., Ph.D., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004
Seibold, James R., M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2004
St. John, Edward P., Ed.D., Professor of Education, School of Education, January 1, 2005
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Sahiner, Berkman, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2004
Serbo, Rico, B.A., Associate Professor of Music (Voice), School of Music, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2008
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Eugene W., Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Duenyas, Izak, Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Felker (Dziekan), Julie A., Associate Dean, UM-Dearbom School of Management, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Gordon, Michael D., Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Horton, Marjorie S., Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Howard, June M., Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Jackson, James S., Director, Center for Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Otto, Charlotte A., Associate Provost, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Reilly, Raymond R., Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Root, Lawrence S., Director, Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009


309




Shridhar, Malayappan, Chair, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Trela, Dale J., Dean, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Waters, Christine M., Associate Dean, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, July 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aronson, Meigan C., Professor of Physics, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for Natural
Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Faraway, Julian J., Professor of Statistics, with tenure, and Interim Chair, Department of Statistics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, January 1, 2004-December 31, 2007
Francis, Anthony H., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Associate Vice President for Research, Office of the Vice President for Research, also
appointed Associate Dean for Budget, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Garabrant, David H., Professor of Occupational Medicine, with tenure, School of Public Health, and
Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Gelman, Susan A., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, also
appointed Associate Dean for Social Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Inhorn, Marcia C., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of
Public Health, also appointed Associate Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Ismail, Amid I., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, also appointed Professor of
Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Martin, William R., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, also
appointed Chair, Department of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Megginson, Robert E., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean for
Undergraduate and Graduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Morgenstern, Lewis B., Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Emergency Medicine and Neurosurgery, without tenure, Medical School, also appointed Associate
Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Pinsky, David J., J. Griswold Ruth, M.D., and Margery Hopkins Ruth Professor of Internal Medicine and
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Molecular and Integrative
Physiology, without tenure, Medical School, June 1, 2004
Schoenfeldt, Michael C., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, also appointed Associate
Dean for Humanities, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Taylor, George W., III., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, also
appointed Associate Professor of Epidemiology, without tenure, School of Public Health,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
Tessler, Mark A., Samuel J. Eldersveld Collegiate Professor of Political Science and Professor of Political
Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Vice Provost for
International Affairs and Director of the International Institute, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
Williams, David R., Harold W. Cruse Collegiate Professor of Sociology and Professor of Sociology, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of Epidemiology,
without tenure, School of Public Health, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Jones, Martha S., Assistant Professor of History and Assistant Professor of Afroamerican and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, leave extended,
September 1, 2004-December 31, 2004
Nguyen, Clark T.C., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, intergovernmental personnel assignment extended,
May 28, 2004-May 27, 2005


310




Van Houweling, Robert P., Assistant Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy, and Assistant Professor of Political Science, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming an Existing Collegiate ProJbss'rshlti
From Kasimir Fajans Professorship in Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Physics to Kasimir Fajans
Collegiate Professorship in Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Physics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004
Establishing Endowed Pro essorships
Ruth Heyn Professorship in Pediatric Oncology, Medical School, June 17, 2004
Aaron Stern Professorship in Pediatric Cardiology, Medical School, June 17, 2004
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
ew Aointents to CollegiateProessorships
Burns, Nancy E., Warren E. Miller Collegiate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Xie, Yu, Otis Dudley Duncan Collegiate Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
New Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Eshel, Hanan, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2004
Feinberg, Fred M., Bank One Corporation Associate Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Muta, Kazue, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2004
Nagar, Venkatesh K., Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration, School of
Business Administration, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
New Ap ointment to Na Pe rofessorship
Kapila, Sunil D., Robert W. Browne Professor of Dentistry in Orthodontics, School of Dentistry,
June 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
Reappointments to Collegiate Professorships
Glick, Gary D., Werner E. Bachmann Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Walton, Kendall L., Charles L. Stevenson Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, June 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
Reappointmenits to Endowed Proessorships
Bass, Hyman, Roger C. Lyndon Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Lydic, Ralph, Bert N. LaDu Professor of Anesthesiology Research, Medical School,
August 1, 2004-July 31, 2009
ReappKointent to Named Professorship
Curley, Edwin M., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, June 1, 2004-May 31, 2009
Other Transactions
Dutta, Debasish, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, intergovernmental leave beyond one
year, College of Engineering, June 1, 2004-May 31, 2006 (previously reported as Dutta Dabashish,
June 1, 2004-May 30, 2006)


311




Kalasinski, Michael R., Assistant Dean for Finance and Administration, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Kelley, Mary C., Transfer of tenure from Women's Studies Program to the Program in American Culture,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2004
Kinder, Donald R., Chair, Department of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007
Kunkel, Steven L., Interim Dean, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
June 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Young, Evans, Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2009
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
A. Alfired Taubman Colleg of Architectre and  rban Planning Eecutive Committee
Fishman, Robert L., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Caroline B. Constant, term expired
Young, Jason T., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Robert W. Marans, term expired
School ofArt and Design Executive Committee
Leonard, Joanne, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006, vice Marianetta Porter, term expired
Smith, Bradley R., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006, vice Allen J. Samuels, term expired
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Sloan, Richard G., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Thomas C. Kinnear, term expired
Talbot, Frederick Brian, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Russell J. Lundholm, term expired
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Chiego, Daniel J., November 1, 2004-October 31, 2007, vice Charlotte M. Mistretta, term expired
Gobetti, John P., November 1, 2004-October 31, 2007, vice George W. Taylor, term expired
Kerschbaum, Wendy E., November 1, 2004-October 31, 2005, vice Dennis E. Lopatin, unable to serve
due to administrative appointment
School of Education Executive Committee
DesJardins, Stephen L., reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007
Stone, Carey Addison, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice Brian P. Rowan, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Alcock, Susan E., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice Jean D. Wineman, term expired
Ball, Deborah Loewenberg, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice Bruce Mannheim, term expired
Brown, Catherine, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005, vice Michael C. Schoenfeldt, unable to serve due
to administrative appointment
Ceccio, Steven L., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice Phillip E. Savage, term expired
Kuwada, John Y., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice Caroline A. Gaither, term expired
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Cartee, Gregory D., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2006, vice Dale A. Ulrich, term expired
Collegeo fLiteratureScienceandtheArt-Executive Committee
Deardorf, Alan V., Social Sciences Division, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice James S. House,
term expired
Lopez, Donald S., Humanities Division, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005, vice Simon E. Gikandi,
term expired
Penner-Hahn, James E., new appointment, Natural Sciences Division, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006
Sears, Elizabeth L., Humanities Division, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2007, vice Donald Lopez, term
expired
Ikedical School Executive Committee
Imperiale, Michael J., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice Deborah L. Gumucio, term expired
Lippman, Marc E., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice N. Reed Dunnick, term expired
Wahl, Wendy L., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice James F. Peggs, term expired


312




School ofu usic Executive Committee
Mead, Andrew W., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005, vice Stephen B. Shipps, term expired
Rowe, Ellen H., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice R. Brent Wagner, term expired
Shirley, George I., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice J. Logan Skelton, term expired
School of Natural Resources and nvironment E.xecutive Committee
Allan, J. David, June 1, 2004-May 31, 2006, vice Michael J. Wiley, term expired
Kaplan, Rachel, June 1, 2004-May 31, 2006, vice Julia M. Wondolleck, term expired
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Pierce, Penny F., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice Barbara J. Guthrie, term expired
Villarruel, Antonia M., July 1, 2004-June 30, 2007, vice Violet H. Barkauskas, term expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
McLauglin, Catherine G., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice Xihong Lin, term expired
Wilson, Mark L., September 1, 2004-August 31, 2007, vice John R.C. Wheeler, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Blank, Rebecca M., reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
King, John L., reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Kunkel, Steven L., ex-efficio member beginning July 1, 2004, pending appointment of permanent dean
UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisory Board
Beresford, Thuli, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Emerson, Bob, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Fullerton, Judith, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Herman, Tim, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Saab, Ghassan, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Sharbaugh, Kathryn, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Spears, Julius, Jr., reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Taylor, Tom, reappointed, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2008
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Botero, Tatiana M., D.D.S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
March 1, 2004-February 28, 2007
Brown, Richard K.J., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
June 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Canman, Christine E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School,
April 19, 2004-April 18, 2005
Cwikiel, Wojciech B., M.D., Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
May 5, 2004-May 4, 2005
de Leon, Cedric, M. Phil., Lecturer II in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1-June 30, 2004
Eckhause, Tobias A., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Engel, Kristen G., M.D., Lecturer in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Fogg, George C., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Francis, Janelle V., B.S., Lecturer I in Biological Station, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 1-June 30, 2004
Frazho, Robert L., M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Gago, L. April, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 12, 2004-August 31, 2005
Hittinger, Matthew D., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2004
Holschen, Jolie C., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
June 1, 2004-May 31, 2005


313




Martens, Jeffrey R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School,
April 1, 2004-March 31, 2005
Napper, Elizabeth S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 1-June 30, 2004
Phillippi, Klotylda M. L., Ph.D., Lecturer in Educational Studies, School of Education,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2006
Seng, Julia S., Ph.D., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1-April 30, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PR1OMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTSI TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHtANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRU CTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bohdiewicz, Paul J., from Lecturer to Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
May 5, 2004-May 4, 2005
Fingar, Diane C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Cell and Developmental Biology and from
Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
September 1, 2004-August 31, 2005
Lewis, Richard L., from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Associate Professor of
Linguistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor
of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering, to
Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Linguistics, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2004
Neiva, Rodrigo E.F., from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, April 1, 2004-March 31, 2007
Sochor, Mark R., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School,
April 1, 2004-March 31, 2005
Tong, Henry C., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, April 1-June 30, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EM1ERITUS/A FACUJLTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Brewer, George J., Morton S. and Henrietta K. Sellner Professor of Human Genetics, Professor Emeritus
of Human Genetics, and Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
October 1, 2004-September 30, 2005
Cameron, Oliver G., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2004-June 30, 2005
Goldberg, Jack L., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 1-June 30, 2004
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, May 1-August 31, 2004
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering, March 1-October 31, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REG-ULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Dutta, Debasish, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
intergovernmental leave, July 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Freed, Gary L., Percy J. Murphy and Marcy C. Murphy Professor in Pediatrics for Child Health Delivery
and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School, and
Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, July 1-December 31, 2004
Jagadish, Hosagrahar V., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College
of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005
Kirsh, Marvin M., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
July 1, 2004-July 30, 2005
Porter, James I., Professor of Greek, Latin, and Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2004


314




,T ERINATNll    S
Effective on the dates indicated
Bratton, Susan L., Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 9, 2004
Briggs, Josephine P., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, April 30, 2004
Brown, Randall W., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, April 30, 2004
Fraiberg, Steven, Lecturer in Undergraduate Education and Lecturer in Technical Communications,
College of Engineering, May 31, 2004
Holland, Paul M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, May 31, 2004
Krafcik, Sonja S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 28, 2004
Neal, Charles R., Jr., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
June 30, 2004
Wu, Chien-Fu J., Harry Clyde Carver Collegiate Professor of Statistics and Professor of Statistics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2004
Zak, Albin J., III., Associate Professor of Music (Musicology), with tenure, School of Music, May 31, 2004
Retirezd
Brown, Morton, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Federbush, Paul G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2004
Krahmalkov, Charles, Professor of Ancient Near Eastern Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Moore, Theodore C., Jr., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2004
Tei Cnpeted
Chan, Emily, Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2004
Dzhamay, Anton, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2004
Foth, Tatyana E., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 31, 2004
Horja, Richard P., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2004
Jones, Darryl V., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama, School of Music, May 31, 2004
Jung, Joachim, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, April 30, 2004
Killeen, Mary B., Associate Professor of Nursing, without tenure, UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, May 31, 2004
Lawes, Elliott W., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2004
Luntz, Jonathan E., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, May 31, 2004
Schneider, David A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2004
Thomas, David W., Assistant Professor of English, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2004
Verma, Kaushal K., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2004
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Tedesco submitted 4 faculty retirement
memoirs.
Richard E. Darnell, Ph.D., professor of physical therapy in the School of Health
Professions and Studies at the University of Michigan-Flint, will retire from active
faculty status on June 30, 2004.
Professor Darnell obtained his B.S. degree from New York University in 1956 and
his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from        Michigan State University in      1964 and 1971,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as assistant professor in
1971 and was promoted to associate professor in 1976 and professor in 1982.
315




Professor Darnell was director of the curriculum in physical therapy and program
director for physical therapy at the Institute for the Study for Mental Retardation and
Related Disabilities on the Ann Arbor campus from 1971-76 and an associate at the
University Hospital from 1972-75. He was director of the Physical Therapy Program on
the Flint campus from 1982-88 and assistant to the dean from 1998-99. He engineered
the relocation of the physical therapy program from Ann Arbor to Flint, which improved
the program's capacity to respond to post-graduate, entry-level educational needs. He is
well known for promoting education in pediatric physical therapy, developing clinical
research in physical therapy within the state, and fostering an interdisciplinary orientation
to patient care. He has the notable distinction of being the first full professor of physical
therapy in the State of Michigan.
Nationally recognized in his field, Professor Darnell has received numerous
awards including the Michigan Physical Therapy Association's (MPTA) Outstanding
Service Award, the American Physical Therapy Association's (APTA) Lucy Blair
Service Award, the Distinguished Educator in Physical Therapy Award from the
APTA's Section for Education, the APTA's Catherine Worthingham Fellowship, and
University of Michigan-Flint's Teaching Excellence Award. He was the first recipient
of the Richard E. Darnell Research Award, which was created by the MPTA's Institute
for Education and Research to recognize Professor Darnell's excellence in teaching.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physical therapy educator for his
dedicated service by naming Richard E. Darnell professor emeritus of physical therapy.
Jane R. Heirich, lecturer III in music in the Residential College, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on December 31,
2003.
Ms. Heirich received her B.A. degree from Earlham College in 1955 and her M.A.
degree from Harvard University in 1957. She joined the University of Michigan faculty
as a lecturer in 1972 and was promoted to lecturer II in 1992 and lecturer III in 1993.
For more than three decades, Ms. Heirich has been responsible for developing and
administering the Residential College Music Program. She created and taught several
new classes, including a course in chamber music in which she organized a chamber
orchestra, several smaller ensembles, and a student vocal group known as the Madrigal
Singers. She also developed a class in creative musicianship that combined music
theory and composition and another course on using the human voice as an acoustic
instrument.
Drawing on her success as a uniquely effective vocal instructor, Ms. Heirich
developed the widely-circulated text, Miracles Usually Can't Be Learned. The text
includes extensive information on all the fundamental areas of concern for voice
students: anatomy, physiology, acoustics, breath training, vocal tract training, and
imagery as a tool for vocal development. A certified teacher of the Alexander
Technique, Ms. Heirich also published numerous articles on the Alexander Technique
and vocal pedagogy and integrated the training into her teaching. She has presented at
numerous conferences and led seminars and workshops around the world.
Ms. Heirich has been a creative and inspirational teacher for thousands of students
during her 32 years of teaching in the Residential College. The popularity of her
courses, the enthusiasm and achievements of her students, and the respect that she has
garnered from her peers, all speak eloquently of her accomplishments. The Residential


316




College Music Program, as it is known and admired today, is Ms. Heirich's
achievement and her legacy to the University.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Jane R. Heirich lecturer
emerita of music.
Yale Kamisar, LL.B., Clarence Darrow Distinguished University Professor of
Law and professor of law in the Law School, will retire from active faculty status on
June 30, 2004.
Professor Kamisar received his A.B. degree from New York University in 1950
and his LL.B. degree from Columbia University in 1954. He worked in private practice
from 1954-57 and then taught at the University of Minnesota Law School from
1957-63. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as professor of law in 1964.
Professor Kamisar is perhaps best known for his work in constitutional criminal
procedure, a field that his writings have transformed. His work in that area is partially
represented by his classic volume on criminal interrogation, Police Interrogation and
Confessions: Essays in Law and Policy (1980); but the body of his work, over a span of
more than three decades, is much larger and has touched all parts of the field. Professor
Kamisar has had an enormous impact in shaping the law made by the Supreme Court of
the United States and in setting the agenda for scholarly debate. He has had a
considerable influence on other issues as well, most notably the ongoing debate about
euthanasia.  His classic 1958 article on mercy-killing has been reprinted in ten
anthologies and continues to this day to be the focus of study and debate by teachers of
law, philosophy, religion, and medical ethics.
In addition to his scholarly achievements, Professor Kamisar has excelled as a
teacher. Generations of students at the Law School have chosen courses simply to "take
Kamisar." He is co-author of seven editions of two widely-used casebooks that have
carried his learning, pedagogy, and relentless enthusiasm to untold numbers of students
at other law schools. His influence has also extended well beyond the confines of
academia, as evidenced by his preeminence as an author of articles about legal issues
for general audiences in national newspapers, magazines, and other media; his activities
in this area have made him a three-time co-recipient of the American Bar Association
Silver Gavel Award.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator for his long and
dedicated service to the University of Michigan by naming Yale Kamisar the Clarence
Darrow Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Law and professor emeritus of
law.
Robert M. Kren, Ph.D., professor of chemistry in the College of Arts and Sciences
at the University of Michigan-Flint, will retire from active faculty status on June 30,
2004, after an extraordinary 36 years of service.
Professor Kren received his B.S. degree from San Francisco State University in 1963
and his Ph.D. degree from Washington State University in 1967. He was a post-doctoral
fellow at the University of Florida in 1967, and he served there as an interim assistant
professor from 1967-68. Professor Kern joined the University of Michigan-Flint faculty as
an assistant professor in 1968 and was promoted to associate professor in 1972 and
professor in 1990.
Professor Kren's research focused on inorganic chemistry, specifically in the areas
of synthesis and characterization of compounds of the non-metals.  His early
publications appeared in such journals as Inorganic Chemistry and Monatshefte der
317




Anorganischen Chemie, but his most recent research and publications have been in the
field of astronomy. He taught a wide variety of courses, including principles of
chemistry, advanced inorganic chemistry, advanced synthesis, polymer chemistry, and
"Beyond the Solar System." His willingness to teach on such a variety of topics indicates
the depth of his commitment to the University and to the students that he served.
Outside the classroom, Professor Kren served as chair of the chemistry department
from 1974-78, and he served on numerous faculty standing committees and special
committees, most notably the College of Arts and Science Executive Committee and the
Budget Priorities and Chancellor's Advisory Committee.
The Regents now salute this distinguished chemistry educator for his dedicated
service by naming Robert M. Kren professor emeritus of chemistry.
Memorials. Vice President Tedesco submitted a memorial statement for Milagros
Simmons, Ph.D., associate professor of environmental health sciences.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death of Milagros S. Simmons, associate professor of environmental health
sciences in the School of Public Health. Professor Simmons died on May 11, 2004, at
the age of 64.
Professor Simmons received her baccalaureate in chemistry from the University of
Santo Tomas in the Philippines in 1959. After an early career in industry, she moved to
the United States and earned her M.S. degree in analytical chemistry and Ph.D. degree
in organic analytical chemistry from Wayne State University in 1962 and 1966,
respectively. She was an assistant professor in the department of chemistry at Mercy
College in Detroit from 1962-66, and she was a senior scientist in the scientific research
laboratory at Ford Motor Company from 1966-68. Professor Simmons joined the
University of Michigan as a postdoctoral fellow in the Biophysics Research Division in
1969. She was appointed to the faculty as an assistant research scientist in the Center
for Great Lakes and Aquatic Sciences in 1971 and was also appointed assistant
professor of environmental chemistry in 1975. She was promoted to associate research
scientist in 1987 and associate professor in 1980.
A highly respected teacher who took special delight in mentoring students,
Professor Simmons was also a renowned researcher in environmental chemistry. The
research she started in water science in the Philippines was just one example of her
many legendary contributions. During her long career, Professor Simmons studied a
wide range of contaminants in water and examined the detection and characterization of
organic chemicals in both lake water and sediments. In particular, she was interested in
the toxic organic compounds that pose the highest human health risks because of their
potential to undergo bio-magnification in ecological systems such as the food chain.
Her pioneering work on polycholorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the Great Lakes food
chain was instrumental in the establishment of health advisories against the
consumption of fish from the lakes, and her work on the International Joint Commission
on the Great Lakes strongly influenced the direction of research and policy relating to
these bodies of water.
Professor Simmons received international recognition and numerous awards for
her work, including the Multiple Sclerosis Society Fellowship, the Macromolecular
Research Center Fellowship, the Fogarty International Fellowship, the Rotary
International Fellowship, and membership in the Philippines Scientist Program.


318




As we mourn the loss of this distinguished scientist, our condolences go to her
husband, Curtis Simmons, as well as her brothers and sisters.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 15 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by
Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following items:
Lease Amendment Agreement with William C. Martin
The Regents approved an amendment to an existing lease for property located at
1301 South University. Because Mr. Martin, owner of William C. Martin, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this lease amendment falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and William
C. Martin.
2.   The current lease between Mr. Martin and the University of Michigan is set to expire
on June 30, 2004. The amendment will extend the term of the lease by an additional
five years until June 30, 2009. The University will pay a monthly rate of $6,596 for
the first three years, and this amount will be increased every July thereafter based
upon the Consumer Price Index or a 3% increase, whichever is greater.
3.   Mr. Martin's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of William C. Martin.
Purchasing Contract with Valley View Farm
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with Valley View Farm to provide
sheep for use in medical research projects. Because Douglas Doop, owner of Valley View
Farm, is also a University of Michigan employee, this contract falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance
with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Unit
for Laboratory Animal Medicine and Valley View Farm.
2.   The product to be provided is sheep and the board of sheep for the purpose of medical
research from April 1, 2004 through June 30, 2009 at a cost of $100,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Doop is the sole owner of Valley
View Farm.
Approval of Payment for Community Resources Limited
The Regents approved a payment by the Medical Center Information Technology
Division for services provided by Community Resources Limited. Because Mark Chesler,
executive director of Community Resources Limited, is also a University of Michigan
employee, this purchase falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Office
of the Provost and Community Resources Limited.


319




2.   The service provided was consulting services for a Diversity Summit at a total cost of
$4,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Chesler is executive director of
Community Resources Limited.
Maintenance Agreement with Arbor Networks
The Regents approved a maintenance agreement with Arbor Networks. Because
Farnam Jahanian, board chairman and stockholder of Arbor Networks, is also a University
of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Medical Center Information Technology division and Arbor Networks.
2.   The product to be provided is software maintenance for three years, at a total cost not
to exceed $55,555.08.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Farnam Jahanian is board chair and
stockholder of Arbor Networks.
Maintenance Agreement with Intralase Corporation
The Regents approved a maintenance agreement with Intralase Corporation. Because
Tibor Juhasz, employee and stockholder of Intralase Corporation, is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences and Intralase Corporation.
2.   The product to be provided is patient interface kits for three years at a total cost not to
exceed $500,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Tibor Juhasz is an employee and
stockholder of Intralase Corporation.
Research Agreement with Ascenta, Inc.
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Ascenta, Inc. for projects that involve study and testing to further develop small
molecule inhibitors for use against various cancers. Because Drs. Marc Lippman,
Shaomeng Wang, and Dajun Yang hold an equity interest in Ascenta, Inc. and are also
University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Ascenta, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The project is
expected to continue over a one-year period at an estimated total cost of $240,856,
including indirect cost at the applicable industry rate. The contract includes a
provision to allow extension and modification of the project upon mutual agreement of
the parties involved. No human studies are proposed at this time.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Lippman, Wang, and Yang hold
an equity interest in Ascenta, Inc.
License Agreement with Cheetah-Omni
The Regents approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Cheetah-Omni, LLC. Cheetah-Omni wishes to commercialize patents developed and


320




owned by the University of Michigan known as "Optical logic gate based router" (UM
File No. 2820) and "High performance multicast/broadcast router using an optical
switching core" (UM File No. 2821). Because Dr. Mohammed Islam, sole owner of
Cheetah-Omni, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Cheetah-Omni.
2.   Licensing terms include: for use in all fields; an exclusive, worldwide grant; and
consideration of 1.5% of net sales up to 33% of sublicense income. Cheetah-Omni will
maintain and support all patent filings. The University will retain its ownership rights
in the licensed technology and may continue further develop it and use it for research
and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Islam  arises from  his ownership interest in
Cheetah-Omni. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue
received by the University from the company.
License Agreement with Mayaterials
The Regents approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Mayaterials. Mayaterials wishes to commercialize patents developed and owned by the
University  of Michigan    known    as "Well-defined   nanosized   building  blocks for
organic/inorganic nanocomposites" (UM File No. 1995) and "Facile synthesis of the
cubeoctameric silicate anion" (UM File No. 2615). Because Dr. Richard Laine, president
and CEO of Mayaterials, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Mayaterials.
2.   Licensing terms include: for use in all fields and exclusive grant with the right to
sublicense. The University will receive an equity portion in the company, royalties of
5% on net sales and 25% of gross sublicense revenues will be paid to the University,
and the University will be reimbursed for all past ongoing patent expenses.
Appropriate diligence minimums and milestone payments must be met. The University
will retain its ownership rights in the licensed technology and may continue to further
develop it and use it for research and academic purposes.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Laine arises from his ownership interest in Mayaterials.
He has waived any person participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University from the company.
Subcontract Agreement with Atactic Technologies
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Atactic Technologies for
funding of a project in the Department of Chemical Engineering. Because Dr. Erdogan
Gulari, founder of Atatic Technologies, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Atactic
Technologies.


321




2.   The period of performance for the project is seven and one-half (71/2) months and the
amount of funding support is $51,434. The agreement includes provisions for changes
in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan procedures for approval of these
changes will be followed, and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee
will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Gulari arise from his status as founder of Actactic
Technologies.
Subcontract Agreement with NanoBio Corporation
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with NanoBio Corporation for
funding of a project in the Department of Microbiology and Immunology. Because Dr.
James R. Baker, Jr., part owner and employee of NanoBio Corporation, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
NanoBio Corporation.
2.   The subcontract at the University will be conducted over at least a one-year period at
an estimated cost of $25,000 including indirect cost at full federal indirect cost. The
agreement provides for amendment upon approval of both parties.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Baker arise from his co-ownership of and employment
at NanoBio Corporation. Dr. Baker will only participate in the project in his capacity
as an officer of NanoBio.
Memorandum of Understanding with Veterans Education and Research
Association of Michigan (VERAM)
The Regents approved a memorandum of understanding with Veterans Education
and Research Association of Michigan (VERAM) to establish the basic terms and
procedures for the request for and provision of services involving several departments of
the University on an as needed basis. Because Drs. James Albers, Janet Gilsdorf, Steven
Goldstein, Roger Grekin, Richard Moseley, and Eric Young, members of the board of
directors of VERAM, are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Veterans Education and Research Association of Michigan (VERAM).
2.   This agreement initiates a Memorandum    of Understanding with VERAM     that
establishes the basic terms and procedures for requisitions of services involving
several University departments and allows the University to pursue individual
payments as needed and appropriate. The initial amount of the Memorandum of
Understanding is $750,000 per year for each of three years with carry forward allowed
only as agreed between the parties. It will provide for extension of terms by mutual
agreement of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Albers, Gilsford, Goldstein, Grekin, Moseley, and
Young arise from their membership on the board of directors of VERAM. Drs. Albers,
Gilsdorf, and Goldstein currently receive $500 per year for services and have no other
financial interest. Drs. Grekin, Moseley, and Young do not receive compensation and
have no financial interest.
Subcontract Agreement with Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Michigan Critical Care
Consultants, Inc., to fund Phase II of an NIH-awarded project in the Medical School.
Because Dr. Robert Bartlett, owner of Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc., is also a


322




University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
2.   The total contract to the University will be $258,706 for the period of January 1, 2004
through December 31, 2005. The agreement includes provisions for changes in time,
amount, and scope. University procedures for approval of these changes will be
followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Bartlett arises from his ownership of Michigan Critical
Care Consultants, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement with Novalung Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Novalung Inc. to provide
funding for research entitled "Preclinical Evaluation of a Novel Diffusion Membrane
Oxygenators for Long-Term Veno-Venous Extracorporeal Life Support." Because Dr.
Robert Bartlett, shareholder in Novalung Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Novalung Inc.
2.   The total subcontract to the University will be $165,000 for the period of January 1,
2004 though December 31, 2004. The agreement includes provisions for changes in
time, amount, and scope. University procedures for approval of these changes will be
followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Bartlett arises from his ownership interest in Novalung
Inc.
Research Agreement with Precision Optical Machining, Inc.
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Precision Optical Machining, Inc. to fund a project entitled "Rapid Ultra Direct Metal
Deposition Technology in the College of Engineering." Because Dr. Jyoti Mazumder has
an equity interest in Precision Optical Machining Inc. and is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the research agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan
and Precision Optical Machining Inc.
2.   A total subcontract of $2,451,451 will cover the project for a four-year period. The
University's standard contract provisions for NIST ASP projects will apply. The
agreement provides for amendment upon approval of both parties. University of
Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Mazumder arises from his equity interest in Precisions
Optical Machining, Inc.
License Agreement with Ablation Frontiers
The Regents approved a license agreement between the University of Michigan and
Ablation Frontiers to further develop a catheter for treatment of atrial fibrillation that was
created in the Medical School. Because Drs. Kakan Oral and Fred Morady hold equity
interest in Ablation Frontiers and are also University of Michigan employees, this


323




agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the license agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Ablation Frontiers.
2.   License terms include: for use in therapeutic applications and an exclusive license with
the right to sublicense. Ablation Frontiers will reimburse the University's back patent
expenses and pay patent expenses incurred during the license term and the license
issue fee is $25,000. The University will receive royalties from a percentage of net
sales as well as a percentage of sublicense income, and the University will receive
equity in the company. Albation Frontiers has exclusive right to practice and
commercialize the technology, subject to certain rights reserved by the University to
practice it for research and/or education purposes. The University retains ownership,
there will be minimum annual maintenance fees, and the term of agreement is for the
life of the patent.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated under the agreement.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Drs. Oral and Morady arises from their ownership interest in
Ablation Frontiers. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing of
revenue received by the University from the company.
Six-Month Report on University Audits
The Regents received the six-month report on Office of University Audits activities
for the period October 1, 2003 through March 31, 2004.
Alternative Asset Commitment (TPG Biotechnology Partners, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $10 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
TPG Biotechnology Partners, L.P. Regent Brandon recused himself from voting due to a
conflict of interest.
Alternative Asset Commitment (EQT IV, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to EUR 20 million from the Long Term
Portfolio to EQT IV L.P., a private equity limited partnership headquartered in
Stockholm, Sweden. Regent Brandon recused himself from voting due to a conflict of
interest.
Authorization    for  Expenditures    in  Fiscal Year     2004-2005   for   University
Operations
On a motion by Regent Richner, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents voted
unanimously to provide temporary expenditure authorization for Fiscal Year 2003-2004
pending approval of 2004-2005 budgets.
Authorization for Expenditures in Fiscal Year 2004-2005 for the University Health
System
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents voted
unanimously to provide temporary expenditure authorization for Fiscal Year 2004-2005
pending approval of 2004-2005 budgets.


324




Sale of Commercial Paper by the University


On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved replacement of the present commercial paper program with a new
program to sell up to $150 million of commercial paper, as described in the Regents
Communication.
Planned Uses of Income from the Julian A. Wolfson and Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 2004-2005
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the planned uses of income from the Wolfson Endowment Funds
for the fiscal year 2004-2005, as described in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) East Ann Arbor
Computed Tomography and Magnetic Resonance Imaging Expansion Project
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the (UMHHC) East Ann Arbor Computed Tomography and
Magnetic Resonance Imaging Expansion Project, which will provide for an additional CT
scanner and an additional MRI scanner in the East Ann Arbor properties, as outlined in
the Regents Communication.
Alumni Memorial Hall Museum of Art Addition and Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Slottow introduced James Steward, director of the
Museum of Art. Mr. Steward introduced Brad Cloepfil, of Allied Works Architecture, to
present the design proposal.
Mr. Cloepfil commented that the design is intended to open up the existing Alumni
Memorial Hall to the campus, so that students and the community can fully engage in it.
A good deal of time was spent in site analysis, due to the uniqueness of the site.
Mr. Cloepfil displayed a site map and photos of the site and surrounding buildings
illustrating circulation patterns. He noted that an important consideration was to
maintain the historic character of Alumni Memorial Hall. He then displayed schematic
designs for each floor of the building. He pointed out that 75% of the gallery space will
be open to natural light and that many of the programmatic needs will be met by
expansion below grade and under the site and will include a new education center with
classroom and curatorial space.
Mr. Cloepfil displayed views of the exteriors as seen from State Street and the
Diag, noting that the art would be visible to passersby. He also displayed an
architectural model of the project.
Mr. Cloepfil responded to questions from the Regents about specific features of
the project. Following the presentation, Regent Brandon moved approval of the revised
budget and schematic design for the Museum of Art Addition and Renovation Project as
presented at the meeting. Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.


325




Naming of Alumni Memorial Hall Museum of Art Addition


On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Deitch, and in recognition of
a gift of $10 million from the Maxine and Stuart Frankel Foundation, the Regents
unanimously approved designating the proposed new wing of the Museum of Art the
Maxine and Stuart Frankel and the Frankel Family Wing.
Wolverine Tower Electrical Substation Replacement
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Wolverine Tower Electrical Substation Replacement Project as
described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Joan and Sanford Weill Hall Project for the Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Joan and Sanford Weill Hall Project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Engineering Laboratory Building Expansion
and Renovation Phase Two of the Science and Engineering Expansion and
Renovation Project
On a motion by Regent Richner, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the University of Michigan-Dearborn Engineering
Laboratory Building Expansion and Renovation Project for bids and awarding
construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Central Power Plant North Low-Pressure Steam Header Improvements
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the Central Power Plant North Low-Pressure Steam Header
Improvements Project as described and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts, providing that bids are within the approved budget.
1912 Geddes, Ann Arbor, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved sale of the property located at 1912 Geddes, Ann Arbor, Michigan,
to the Nu Sigma Nu fraternity for $525,000 upon terms and conditions acceptable to the
University.
Walgreen Center Project
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that this project had originally been
approved in May 2000 on a site located just east of the Power Center. However, the
design of that project was never completed, and it has been terminated. The scope of the
Walgreen Drama Center has been transformed and the proposed location for this project
has been changed to a site on North Campus. He noted that it will house the 250-seat
Arthur Miller Theatre as well as the Department of Theatre and Drama of the School of
Music. He reported that the project will have an impact on parking and that an update on


326




parking will be presented at a later time. He noted that the estimated cost of the project is
$34 million.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
approved   the   Walgreen    Drama    Center   Project  as  described   and   authorized
commissioning KPMB Architects for its design.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Arbor Lakes
Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) Parallel Computing Center
Project
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Deitch, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers' Arbor
Lakes Medical Center Information Technology Parallel Computing Center Project as
described and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Michigan Student Assembly Report
MSA President Jason Mironov read a prepared statement responding to earlier
comments from Vice President Harper about planned changes to SAPAC. He then
updated the board on upcoming MSA-sponsored events as well as projects underway by
MSA for the coming year. He noted that he is meeting with all of the vice presidents to
discuss student projects, with a goal of drafting a memorandum of understanding setting
forth avenues for obtaining student input in aspects of the University that currently do not
receive regular student input.
Revisions to Regents' Bylaws Sections 1.06 and 1.07
Regent Deitch made the following comments.
President Coleman, I'd like to provide some context for the proposed revisions to the
Regents' bylaws. I would like these remarks to be published in the minutes of this meeting in their
entirety for legislative history.
Two-and-a-half years ago, the Board voted to amend its bylaws and modify its
governance structure. For the first time, we created two committees. These were. 1) Finance, Audit and
Investment, and 2) Compensation and Personnel.
We also created the positions of chair and vice chair. These positions were to be
elected by a majority of the Board. I was elected chair. Regent Newman was elected vice chair.
As written, the term of office was to be 2 years. The first term was also extended for 6 months
because of when the system was put in place. As originally written, the job descriptions for the
chair and vice chair were vague. But, nevertheless, off we went.
For me, kicking off something new was an interesting, and at times, frustrating
experience. On the whole, our new structure has worked very well...but not perfectly.
Certainly, the committees have fulfilled our hopes for them. By empowering sub-sets of
the Board to delve deeply into subjects which are at the heart of our governance responsibility,
namely finance and executive personnel, we more thoroughly and thoughtfully fulfill our
responsibilities.
I am particularly proud of the fact that we created an audit committee well in advance
of Enron and Sarbanes-Oxley. Prudent management of our resources is at the heart of our
stewardship responsibilities, and we have done that well.


327




June Meeting, 2004


Speaking  of   Sarbanes-Oxley,  as  previously  reported,  we  have   asked
PricewatershouseCoopers to advise us on how to bring University practice into as full
compliance as possible with Sarbanes-Oxley even though that law does not apply to non-profit
institutions. Accordingly, we will be bringing forward a revised charter for the Finance, Audit
and Investment Committee in the near future.
Similarly, Sarbanes-Oxley mandates that public companies have a nominating and
governance committee to review Board performance. We will not create such a committee, but
we will be revising the charter of the Compensation and Personnel Committee to include Board
assessment and self-evaluation in its charter. Those revisions will be completed soon.
Both of these actions are consistent with the Board's insistence that both its own
activities and those of University leadership be conducted at all times with the highest possible
professionalism and integrity.
As we came to the end of my V22 year term, afew things became apparent to all of us
regarding the role of the chair and vice chair. These were.
1) The job takes a lot of extra time.
2) Defining  the  chair's responsibilities  would  be  helpful and  would  avoid
misunderstandings.
3) Preserving a spirit of egalitarian collegiality among 8 individually elected public
officials was ofpreeminent importance.
Accordingly, we have brought forth the following major bylaw revisions in addition to a few
other technical corrections.
1) Henceforth, the chair and vice chair will serve one-year terms.
2) The positions will be filled on a rotating basis based on seniority.
3) The chair will be the Regent with the most seniority with the vice chair having the
second most seniority.
4) Members can, of course, feel free to decline to serve for personal reasons - family,
other commitments, and so forth.
5) No one will serve again until all other members have served or forfeited the
opportunity to serve.
6) The duties of the chair have been clarified and specified to include.
*   setting the annual schedule for meetings, agenda and major topics for
presentation or study by the Board
* monitoring committee agenda planning for coordination and
comprehensiveness
* acting as spokesperson and convener of the Board where appropriate
* presiding over executive sessions when held without the president of the
University
* appointing the chair and members of the ad hoc and standing committees
With that background, in a moment I will propose the following motions.
Approve the bylaw changes as published in the June 7, 2004 University Record,
Confirm the appointment of Rebecca McGowan as chair and Andrea Fischer Newman as
vice chair commencing July 1, 2004.
Before making those motions, I would like to make afew personal observations.


328




First on transition: For the record, Regent McGowan and I have equal seniority. Because
of my 2 ~V years of service as chair, I do not expect to serve as chair next year. Rather, I
will serve again when my turn next arrives. Similarly, Regent Newman was elected vice
chair with me. She will serve again and is scheduled to be the next chair unless she
declines to serve.
Second, the record should reflect that this method of selecting the chair was originally
suggested by Regent Maynard 2 V2 years ago. She was correct.
I would like to offer my thanks to Andrea Newman. Her probing questions and savvy
insights always made me do a better job - even when we didn't agree.
I wish to offer my thanks to Lisa Tedesco. Her value as a colleague to me and to all of the
Regents is simply unquantifiable. Her work and advice are superb.
A few words on Rebecca McGowan: We are very fortunate to have her as our next chair.
If we hadn't changed our system she would have been my personal nominee for the job.
She is completely dedicated to the University's excellence. She will insist that we all do our
best. Beckie, through good days and bad, over 12 years, there is no Regent for whom I
have more respect.
Finally, thanks to my colleagues for giving me the privilege of kicking off this new system. I
look forward to continued service with all ofyou. "
Regent Deitch moved the adoption of the proposed revisions to Regents' Bylaws
1.06 and 1.07, and the confirmation of Regents McGowan and Newman as chair and
vice chair, respectively. Regent Newman seconded the motion.
Regent Maynard thanked Regent Deitch for the way he had "put this together with
all the rest of us," and noted that she appreciated the manner in which this has occurred.
She thanked Regent Deitch for his service, pointing out that his great passion for the
University is an honorable characteristic. Regent Brandon associated himself with
Regent Maynard's remarks and noted that "it is hard to be the first of anything" and for
that, he appreciated Regent Deitch's efforts. Regent McGowan agreed, commenting
that in their twelve years of association, she and Regent Deitch have usually agreed, but
when they don't, "It is very exciting to engage him and then to anticipate the fireworks
that follow." She noted that Regent Deitch works so hard for the University because he
truly believes in the values and opportunities it presents for its students.
The vote was then taken, and the motion to amend Regents' Bylaws Sections 1.06
and 1.07 were approved unanimously. The revised bylaws appear in the appendix,
beginning on page 331.
Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and
Agreements, FY 03
The Regents received the annual report regarding the implementation of the
Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts, and Agreements for FY 03.
Approval of the Academic Calendars for 2006-2007 and 2007-2008 for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved academic calendars for 2006-2007 and 2007-2008 for the
University of Michigan-Dearborn campus.


329




Approval of Proposed Change to the Academic Calendars for the Summer Term
2006 for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a change to the academic calendar for the summer term 2006 for
the University of Michigan-Dearborn campus.
Official Enrollment Count Dates for the University of Michigan-Flint Campus
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved an amendment to the official enrollment count dates, as follows:
"The official enrollment report for the University of Michigan-Flint will be prepared by
the Office of the Registrar as of the 10th day of classes for all terms, using consistent
definitions and procedures each term and year."
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:45 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for July 15, 2004.
Lisa A. Tedesco
Vice President and Secretary 'ofthe University


330




June Meeting, 2004 - Index
JUNE MEETING, 2004
APPENDIX
Revisions to Bylaws 1.06 and 1.07
Revised bylaws: additions underlined; deletions crossed out.
Sec. 1.06.     Officers of the Board (revised FebFruary-2 02 June 2004)
A. President and Secretary of the Board
The president of the university will shall preside at meetings of the Board,
without the right to vote. The vice president and secretary of the university will
shall act as secretary of the Board.
B. Chair and Vice Chair of the Board
1. Selection:
a. There will be a chair and vice chair of the Board, each of whom will serve a
one year term commencing on July 1 of each year and ending on June 30 of
the succeeding year. This process will, commencing on July 1, 2004. The
positions of chair and vice chair will be based on seniority and will rotate
through the Board based on seniority.
b. The chair will be the Board member with most seniority on the Board, and
the vice chair will be the Board member with second most seniority on the
Board. The vice chair will automatically becomes chair after serving one term
as vice chair. If two or more Board members have equal seniority, the chair or
vice chair, as applicable, will be chosen through a random selection process.
At a meeting before July 1 of each year the Board will take a public vote
confirming the officers for the subsequent year.
c. A Board member who has served as chair or vice chair is ineligible to serve
again in that capacity until all other members of the Board have served or
forfeited the opportunity to serve. If the vice chair elects not to serve as chair,
or the Board member next eligible to serve as vice chair elects not to serve as
vice chair, then he or she forfeits the opportunity to serve as chair and vice
chair until all other members of the Board have served in such capacity or
forfeited the opportunity to serve.


MVembcmrs ot me bJoar o- iKegents snail elect a Vcair and- vcc- cfair tor
t '-yr terms to, b. in on July 1,o O  I o  vALy eien-numberd dyear ad to end on
June 30 of the next even numbered year, exept that the initial elections for
chair and vice chair shall be for terms beginning at the time of the election and
nd4ing on Junel 30, 2004. No less than sixty das b6efore 1the expiation of
terms of the current chair andl id e chair, the Board shall elect a new chair and
vice chair.
d. The chair and/or vice chair may be removed by vote of at least six members
of the Board. of Regens,.N ations shall be madea u,d seoe dfor the
offices of chair and d e chair. Votes shall be cast in publi by all  tmg
votes caffst by members of thel Board shall be elected Lto the position. For each
pi     Pif 1 nomine r   ies a sily  majority of those;otes east on the
first ballot, aeod ballot shall be held to inclde only:those two candidates
receiving the greatest number ofv otes cast on the first ballot. If no candidate
receives a simple majority of votes cast on the second ballot, for either chair or
331




June Mleeting, 2004 - Index


vic%.e hair, thlle person currently srving as chair (or vice chair) will ontinue to
/~gull Vgwl 111 LIIO~L k~lll k1lgWl LLIILI Oi ksiOllkJilkJLilu  lgi. ll/u11llLy V ll  Vk1l/ kwiO Ll 1~./1  LII
r%.i%.li that office until a cad1date recei.es a maji-f o  c  fo%.  tI1   I hat 
office. If the current chair is unwilling or unavailable to continue in that
position until a nMV chair iselected, the current vice chair will assume that
osition. If the chair Should the chair resigns, or is be removed as chair by
vote of the Board, resigns, or otherwise is be unavailable or unwilling to serve
as chair for tdring the remainder of the term, the vice chair will automatically
assume that position for the remainder of the term and the Board member with
the next most seniority will automatically become vice chair for the remainder
of the term. If a vice chair is removed as vice chair by vote of the Board,
resigns,or otherwise is unavailable or unwilling to serve as vice chair for the
remainder of the term, the Board member with the next most seniority will
automatically serve as vice chair for the remainder of the term. If two or more
Board members have equal seniority to fill a vacancy, the chair or vice chair,
as applicable, will be chosen through a random selection process and
confirmed through a vote of the Board at its next meeting. A chair or vice
chair who serves a partial term may serve a full one-year term after the partial
term ends. a new vice chair will be selected at the next meeting of the Board
Should the vic chair resign or be removed as vice chair or otherwise be
unavailable to serve out t he reminder of his or her term, a ntw vie clhair will
be selectedL at the next meetigl  th1e Board of Regents.
2. Duties:
If during any meeting of the Board the president is obliged to be absent
therefrom for any reason, the chair will shall assume the duties of the
presiding officer of the meeting and will shall act as such until the president
returns to the meeting and assumes the role of presiding officer.
The chair will perform the following duties, any or all of which he or she may
delegate to the vice chair: set the annual schedule of meetings, agenda and
major topics for presentation or study by the Board, including revisions as
issues emerge; monitor committee agenda planning for coordination and
comprehensiveness; act as spokesperson and convener of the Board where
appropriate; preside over executive session when held without the president;
and appoint the chair and members of ad hoc and standing
committees.committ.c chairs..
The chair and vice chair will also shall perform such additional duties as
prescribed by the Board from time to time.
If In the -eent the chair is temporarily unavailable to perform his or her duties
at any time, the vice chair will shall assume the chair's responsibilities.
Sec. 1.07.     Committees (revised February 2002 June 2004)
A. Committee of the Whole
When the Board sha4l resolves itself into a committee of the whole, the chair
of the Board will shall serve as chair of the committee.
B. Ad Hoc Committees
The chair may appoint establish ad hoc committees of the Board and the
Board will shall prescribe their duties and functions. The president of the
University or the president's designee will shall serve as an ex officio member
without vote of all such committees. Board membership on any such


332




June Meeting, 2004 - Index


committee will shall consist of less than a quorum of the membership of the
Board.
C. Standing Committees
There will shall be two standing committees of the Board of Regents, each
composed of three members less than a quorum of the members of the Board,
seleeted appointed by the chair. These committees will shall advise the Board
of Regents on matters pertaining to their subject areas and will shall present
periodic reports and recommendations, but will shall not have the power to
bind the Board of Regents on any matter. These committees will shall
determine the frequency, time and place of their meetings, in consultation with
other members of the Board.
1. The Finance, Audit and Investment Committee
This committee will shall provide assistance to the Board in fulfilling its
responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the
University's internal controls and financial reporting and investment
policies and practices. This committee will shal4 review, at its discretion,
matters that may include the annual audit, financial statements and
reporting, investments, and compliance with applicable laws and
regulations.
2. The Compensation and Personnel Committee
This committee will shall provide assistance to the Board in evaluating the
performance of and determining the appropriate level of compensation for
the president. It also will shall advise the president on the performance of
and compensation for the executive officers. The committee will sha-l, at
its discretion, review performance goals and evaluations, market data,
salary studies, and other relevant information.
Final Version of Bylaws without crossouts and underlines.
Sec. 1.06. Officers of the Board (revised June 2004)
A. President and Secretary of the Board
The president of the University will preside at meetings of the Board, without
the right to vote. The vice president and secretary of the University will act as
secretary of the Board.
B. Chair and Vice Chair of the Board
1. Selection:
a. There will be a chair and vice chair of the Board, each of whom will
serve a one-year term commencing on July 1 of each year and ending on
June 30 of the succeeding year. This process will commence on July 1,
2004. The positions of chair and vice chair will be based on seniority and
will rotate through the Board based on seniority. The chair will be the
Board member with most seniority on the Board, and the vice chair will be
the Board member with second most seniority on the Board. The vice chair
will automatically become chair after serving one term as vice chair. If two
or more Board members have equal seniority, the chair or vice chair, as
applicable, will be chosen through a random selection process. At a
meeting before July 1 of each year the Board will take a public vote
confirming the officers for the subsequent year.


333




June Meeting, 2004 - Index


b. A Board member who has served as chair or vice chair is ineligible to
serve again in that capacity until all other members of the Board have
served or forfeited the opportunity to serve. If the vice chair elects not to
serve as chair, or the Board member next eligible to serve as vice chair
elects not to serve as vice chair, then he or she forfeits the opportunity to
serve as chair or vice chair until all other members of the Board have
served in such capacity or forfeited the opportunity to serve.
c. The chair and/or vice chair may be removed by vote of at least six
members of the Board. If the chair is removed as chair by vote of the
Board, resigns, or otherwise is unavailable or unwilling to serve as chair
for the remainder of the term, the vice chair will automatically assume that
position for the remainder of the term and the Board member with the next
most seniority will automatically become vice chair for the remainder of
the term. If a vice chair is removed as vice chair by vote of the Board,
resigns, or otherwise is unavailable or unwilling to serve as vice chair for
the remainder of the term, the Board member with the next most seniority
will automatically serve as vice chair for the remainder of the term. If two
or more Board members have equal seniority to fill a vacancy, the chair or
vice chair, as applicable, will be chosen through a random selection process
and confirmed through a vote of the Board at its next meeting. A chair or
vice chair who serves a partial term may serve a full one-year term after the
partial term ends.
2. Duties:
If during any meeting of the Board the president is absent, the chair will
assume the duties of the presiding officer of the meeting and will act as
such until the president returns to the meeting and assumes the role of
presiding officer.
The chair will perform the following duties, any or all of which he or she
may delegate to the vice chair: set the annual schedule of meetings, agenda
and major topics for presentation or study by the Board, including revisions
as issues emerge; monitor committee agenda planning for coordination and
comprehensiveness; act as spokesperson and convener of the Board where
appropriate; preside over executive session when held without the
President; and appoint the chair and members of ad hoc and standing
committees.
The chair and vice chair will also perform such additional duties as
prescribed by the Board from time to time.
If the chair is temporarily unavailable to perform his or her duties at any
time, the vice chair will assume the chair's responsibilities.
Sec. 1.07. Committees (revised June 2004)
A. Committee of the Whole
When the Board will resolve itself into a committee of the whole, the chair of
the Board will serve as chair of the committee.
B. Ad Hoc Committees
The chair may establish ad hoc committees of the Board and the Board will
prescribe their duties and functions. The president of the University or the
president's designee will serve as an ex officio member without vote of all


334




June Meeting 200 - Index


such committees. Board membership on any such committee will consist of
less than a quorum of the members of the Board.
C. Standing Committees
There will be two standing committees of the Board of Regents, each
composed of less than a quorum of the members of the Board, appointed by
the chair. These committees will advise the Board of Regents on matters
pertaining to their subject areas and will present periodic reports and
recommendations, but will not have the power to bind the Board of Regents
on any matter. These committees will determine the frequency, time and place
of their meetings, in consultation with other members of the Board.
1. The Finance, Audit and Investment Committee
This committee will provide assistance to the Board in fulfilling its
responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the
University's internal controls and financial reporting and investment
policies and practices. This committee shall review, at its discretion,
matters that may include the annual audit, financial statements and
reporting, investments, and compliance with applicable laws and
regulations.
2. The Compensation and Personnel Committee
This committee will provide assistance to the Board in evaluating the performance of and determining the
appropriate level of compensation for the president. It also will advise the president on the
performance of and compensation for the executive officers. The committee will, at its discretion,
review performance goals and evaluations, market data, salary studies, and other relevant
information.


335




June Meeting, 2004 - Index


336




INDEX


A
A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning Executive Committee,
Appointments made, 312
Aamot, Kirk, Associate Professor of Music,
with tenure, at UM-Flint, 275
Aanerud, Marian, Lecturer in Science,
Computer Science, Engineering Science
and Physics at UM-Flint, 17
Aaron Stern Professorship in Pediatric
Cardiology, Established, 311
Aaron, Daniel, Recommendation to award
honorary degree approved, 229
Abdu, Hasina M., Childcare leave, 99, 152;
Extended sick leave, 152; Family medical
leave, 152
Abdulhadi, Rabab, Associate Professor of
Sociology, without tenure, at
UM-Dearborn, 276
Abene, Michael V., Term completed, 23
Ablation Frontiers, Option agreement with
approved, 212; License agreement with
approved, 323
Abriola, Linda M., leave of absence from the
College of Engineering Executive
Committee, 56; Personal leave, 62;
Resigned, 64; Term expired on the College
of Engineering Executive Committee, 242
Academic Calendar, 2006-2007 Ann Arbor
campus calendar approved, 298; Revisions
to Winter 2005 and 2006 Ann Arbor
campus calendars approved, 298;
2006-2007 and 2007-2008 Dearborn
academic calendars approved, 329; Changes
to summer 2006 Dearborn academic
calendar approved, 330
Accenture Professorship in Computer and
Information Systems, New name of Arthur
Anderson Professorship in Computer and
Information Systems, 15; Dennis G.
Severance reappointed, 16
Accu Therapeutics, Inc., Research agreement
with approved, 107, 108
Achen, Christopher H., Resigned, 22; Warren E.
Miller Collegiate Professor of Political
Science, 54; Cancellation of termination,
66; Resigned, 207
Ackermann, Christa, Resigned, 64
Adams, Julia P., Sabbatical leave cancelled,
207; Resigned, 281
Adams, Paul A., Reappointed to active status,
99
Adams, Robert J., Assistant Professor of
Architecture, 17


Admissions Lawsuits, Comments from Mary
Sue Coleman on Supreme Court decision,
10; Comments from the Regents on
Supreme Court decision, 11
Adriaens, Peter, Additional appointment as
Professor of Natural Resources and
Environment, without tenure, 241
Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics
(ABIA), Appointments made, 95, 242, 277;
Supplemental information to certified
audited financial report submitted, 247
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports,
Appointments made, 95
Affirmative Action Issues, Report on changes in
the undergraduate admissions process, 301
Afuah, Allan N., Sabbatical leave, 99
Agranoff, Bernard W., Retired, 102; Retirement
memoir, 135
Agrawal, Arun, Associate Professor of Natural
Resources and the Environment, with
tenure, 53
Aguirre, Anthony R., Retirement memoir, 66
Ahmed, Asra Z., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, 278
Ahmed, Ismael N., reappointed to the University
of Michigan-Dearborn Citizens Advisory
Committee, 56
Ahn, Hyun-Soo, Assistant Professor of
Operation Management Science, 56
Ahuja, Gautam, Professor of Corporate Strategy
and International Business, with tenure, 271
Aikman, James W., Term completed, 65
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Reappointed to active
status, 205
Akerley, Brian J., Resigned, 22
Akhoury, Ratindranath, Sabbatical leave, 99
Akin, Cem, Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, 277
Al-Hashimi, Hashim M., Personal leave, 244
Albert Kahn Associates, Commissioned to
design the Depression Center and
Ambulatory Psychiatry new facility, 29;
Commissioned to design the East Ann
Arbor Ambulatory Surgery and Medical
Procedures Center, 164
Alcock, Susan E., Appointed to the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board, 312
Alexander, Jeffrey A., Sabbatical leave, 99
Alexander, Lois, Chair of the Department of
Music and Art at UM-Flint, 14
Alexander, Neil B., Research Professor of
Gerontology, 278


337




INDEX


Alibegovic, Emina, T.H. Hildebrandt Research
Assistant Professor of Mathematics, 16;
Assistant Professor of Mathematics, 95
Alice Freeman Palmer Professorship in History,
Barbara D. Metcalf appointed, 13
Allan, J. David, Sabbatical leave, 62; Appointed
to the School of Natural Resources and the
Environment Executive Committee, 313
Allen, Richard L., Retired, 245; Retirement
memoir, 282
Allied Works Architecture, Commissioned to
design the Alumni Memorial Hall Museum
of Art addition and renovation, 105
Alozie-Arole, Chidinma, Clinical Instructor in
Obstetrics and Gynecology, 18
Altarum, Lease agreement with 3600 Green
Court Corporation approved, 107
Alvarado, Rudolph V., Term completed, 188
Alvarez, Stephanie M., Additional appointment
as Lecturer I in American Culture, 205
Aminoff, David, Reappointed to active status,
151
Anderson, David J., Retirement furlough, 187
Anderson, Elizabeth H., term expired on
Committee on Honorary Degrees, 56
Anderson, Eugene W., Reappointed Associate
Dean of the School of Business
Administration, 309
Anderson, Kenneth W., Term completed, 23
Anderson, Tracy M., Lecturer in Nursing, 95
Anderson-Levitt, Kathryn M., Dean of
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, 226
Andreae, Margie C., Clinical Associate
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, 278
Andreasen, Michael, Reappointed Assistant
Dean and Director of Development, School
of Business Adminstration, 17
Andrews, Philip C., Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure, 273
Andricioaei, loan, Assistant Professor of
Chemistry, 56
Angulo-Barroso, Rosa M., Research Associate
Professor of the Center for Human Growth
and Development, 278
Ann Arbor Architects Collaborative,
Commissioned to design the Medical
School Magnetic Resonance Imaging
Research Scanner Project, 249
Ann Arbor IT Zone, Payment for approved, 121
Ann Street Parking Structure, Approved and
Walker Parking commissioned for its
design, 139


Annual Financial Statements, Submitted for year
ended 2003, 73; Approved for the year
ended June 30, 2003, 104
Annual Research Report, FY 2003 report
presented, 171
Ansbacher, Rudi, Reappointed to active status,
205
Anspach, Renee, Cancellation of previously
approved sabbatical leave, 188
Anusaksathien, Orasa, Clinical Lecturer in
Dentistry, 151
Arbor Networks, Maintenance agreement with
approved, 320
Arenas, Juan D., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Surgery, 19
Armellini, Debora B., Resigned, 64
Aronoff, David, Clinical Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 60
Aronson, Meigan C., Associate Dean for
Natural Sciences in the College of
Literature, Sciences, and the Arts, 310
Arora, Poonam, Chair of the Department of
Humanities at UM-Dearborn, 276
Arroyo, Jossianna, Associate Professor of
Spanish, with tenure, 272
Arroyo-Rodriguez, Daniel, Lecturer I in
Romance Languages and Literatures, 95
Arruda, Airton O., Clinical Lecturer in
Dentistry, 19; Clinical Assistant Professor
of Dentistry, 226
Art and Architecture Building, 1st and 2nd floor
renovations approved and authorized to
issue bids and award construction contracts,
248
Arthur Anderson Professorship in Computer and
Information Systems, Renamed Accenture
Professorship in Computer and Information
Systems, 15
Arthur F. Thurnau Professorship, Elizabeth B.
Moje appointed, 203; J. Wayne Jones
appointed, 203; Robert M. Owen appointed,
203; Scott A. Moore appointed, 203;
William J. Gehring appointed, 203
Arts, H. Alexander, Clinical Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, 278; Clinical
Professor of Surgery, 278
Ascenta, Inc., Research agreement with
approved, 320
Ascione, Frank J., Dean of the College of
Pharmacy, 203
Ashford, Susan J., Reappointed Michael and
Susan Jandernoa Professor of Business
Administration, 16
Askew, Kelly M., Associate Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, with


338




INDEX


tenure, 272; Associate Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure, 272
Atactic Technologies, Subcontract agreement
with approved, 321
Athey, Brian D., Additional appointment as
Associate Professor of Internal Medicine,
without tenure, 203
Athletic Department, Proposed FY 2004
operating budget presented, 5
Athletic Department Academic Center,
Schematic design for Academic Center
presented and approved, 139; Approval for
issuing bids and awarding construction
contracts, 248; Intended programmatic uses
described, 248
Aurora, Taruna K., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Emergency Medicine, 60
Austin, Todd M., Received 2004 Henry Russel
Award, 214
Axe, John R., Reappointed to Clements Library
Associates Board of Governors, 55
Axelrod, Daniel, Duty off campus, 206
Aydin, Goker, Assistant Professor of Industrial
and Operations Engineering, 56
B
Babiak, Katherine M., Assistant Professor of
Kinesiology, 98
Babich, Volodymyr O., Assistant Professor of
Industrial and Operations Engineering, 95
Bach, David S., Clinical Professor of Internal
Medicine, 278
Bacon, George E., Reappointed to active status,
151
Bailey, Charles W., Sabbatical leave, 244
Bailey, Joseph F., Lecturer I in Germanic
Languages and Literatures, 56
Baird, Darryl G., Associate Professor of Art,
with tenure, at UM-Flint, 275
Baird, Thomas A., Vice Chancellor of
Institutional Advancement at
UM-Dearborn, 94
Baker, Martha G., Term completed, 23
Ball, Deborah Loewenberg, Appointed to the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies Executive Board, 312
Balla, Angela J., Lecturer II in English
Language and Literature, 95
Balter, James M., Sabbatical leave, 227
Banaszak-Holl, Mark M., Professor of
Chemistry, with tenure, 272; Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering,
without tenure, 272
Banaszak-Holl, Jane C., Sabbatical leave, 99


Bank One Corporation Assistant Professorship
in Business Administration, Reuven Lehavy
appointed, 16
Bank One Corporation Associate Professorship
in Business Administration, Fred M.
Feinberg appointed, 311
Bank, Lisa M., Lecturer II in Molecular,
Cellular and Developmental Biology, 95
Barald, Kate F., Professor of Cell and
Developmental Biology, with tenure, 273
Barannyk, Lyudmyla L., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 132
Barber, James R., Extended sick leave, 244
Barclay, Mel L., Reappointed to active status,
227
Bardenstein, Carol B., Associate Professor of
Arabic Languages and Cultures, with
tenure, 272
Barkauskas, Violet H., Term expired on the
School of Nursing Executive Committee,
313
Barletta, Gina M., Resigned, 102
Barolo, Scott E., Assistant Professor of Cell and
Developmental Biology, 56
Baron, Daniel L., Term completed, 188
Barry, Anita K., Retirement memoir, 24
Barton, David F., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Emergency Medicine, 226
Bass, Hyman, Roger C. Lyndon Collegiate
Professor of Mathematics, 311
Bassler, Mary P., Resigned, 64
Battles, Kathleen M., Lecturer I in
Communication Studies, 56; Resigned, 64
Bauer, Patricia A., Appointed to the School of
Dentistry Executive Committee, 17
Baumann, Gregory W., Clinical Lecturer in
Emergency Medicine, 18; Correction in
appointment from Clinical Lecturer to
Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency
Medicine, 59
Baumgarten, Elias, Sabbatical leave, 206
Baveja, Roohi, Lecturer I in Economics, 95
Baxter, Scott L., Term completed, 188
Beatty, Joy E., Assistant Professor of
Management Studies at UM-Dearborn, 243
Beck, Astrid B., Personal leave, 20
Beck, Robert F., Correction to sabbatical leave
dates, 101
Beck-Matjias, Melissa L., Lecturer in Music
(Dance), 204
Becker, Robert C., Term completed, 154
Beckman, Gary M., Chair of the Department of
Near Eastern Studies, 277


339




INDEX


Beddor, Patrice Speeter, Chair of the
Department of Linguistics, 277
Behar, Ruth, Duty off campus, 152
Beil, Damian R., Lecturer in Business, 56;
Correction in appointment from Lecturer to
Assistant Professor of Business, 60
Beleh, Mustapha, Resigned, 102
Bement, Spencer, Reappointed to active status,
227
Ben-Josef, Edgar, Clinical Lecturer in Radiation
Oncology, 56; Correction in appointment
from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Associate
Professor of Radiation Oncology, 98
Ben-Shahar, Omri, Professor of Economics,
without tenure, 272
Benamou, Catherine L., Associate Professor of
American Culture-Latino/a Studies, with
tenure, 272; Associate Professor of Film
and Video Studies, with tenure, 272
Beno, Mary E., Lecturer in Kinesiology, 204
Benson, Mark R., Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, 187
Beny, Laura N., Assistant Professor of Law, 56
Berent, Stanely, Retirement furlough, 20
Beresford, Thuli, Reappointed to the UM-Flint
Channel 28 Community Advisory Board,
313
Berger, Carl F., Retired, 23; Retirement memoir,
25
Bergin, Edwin A., Assistant Professor of
Astronomy, 95
Berglund, Patricia A., Lecturer II in Sociology,
95
Bergstrom, Terry J., Retired, 245; Retirement
memoir, 282
Berman, Deborah R., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 56
Bernstein, Gary M., Resigned, 64
Berry, Moulouk A.L., Assistant Professor of
Arabic at U-M Dearborn, 56
Bert N. LaDu Professorship in Anesthesiology
Research, Ralph Lydic reappointed, 311
Bertacco, Valeria M., Assistant Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, 56
Best, Mary H., Lecturer in Psychiatry, 95
Beydoun, Ahmad A., Personal leave, 206;
Professor of Neurology, with tenure, 273
Bhadriraju, Srinivas, Resigned, 64
Bhartia, Bobby K., Lecturer in Radiology, 95
Bhattacharya, Pallab K., Reappointed the James
R. Mellor Professor of Engineering, 242
Bhattacharyya, Sugato, Sabbatical leave, 62
Bichakjian, Christopher K., Term completed, 23


Bingham, C. Raymond, Research Associate
Professor, University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute and
Research Associate Professor of Psychiatry
Substance Abuse, 278
Bingham, Derek R., Resigned, 22
Birdsall, William C., Reappointed to active
status, 205
Birkmeyer, John D., George D. Zuidema
Professor of Surgery, 130; Professor of
Surgery, with tenure, 130
Birkmeyer, Nancy J. O'Connor, Associate
Professor of Surgery, without tenure, 186
Birmingham, William P., Resigned, 64
Bishop, Dennis Keith, Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, without
tenure, 273; Professor of Surgery, with
tenure, 273
Bishop, John P., Term completed, 208
Blaauw, David, Associate Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure, 271
Blane, Caroline E., Sabbatical leave, 152
Blank, Rebecca M., Reappointed Dean of the
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
186; Reappointed to the Institute for Social
Research Executive Committee, 277;
Reappointed to the Institute for Social
Research Executive Committee, 313
Blaum, Caroline S., Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure, 273
Blayney, Douglas, Clinical Professor of Internal
Medicine, 56
Blumberg, Ilana M., Lecturer II in Women's
Studies, 95
Bochar, Daniel A., Assistant Professor of
Biological Chemistry, 95
Boczar, Michael E., Resigned, 64
Bogun, Frank, Assistant Professor of
Cardiovascular Medicine, 150
Bohdiewicz, Paul J., Lecturer in Radiology, 204;
Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology,
314
Bohn, Amy C., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Family Medicine, 278
Bolcom, William E., Outside teaching leave,
152
Bole, Giles G., Jr., Retirement memoir, 67
Bolkosky, Sidney M., Reappointed to the
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters Executive Committee, 150
Bolling, Steven F., Gayle Halperin Kahn
Professor of Integrative Medicine, 54
Bommarito, Michael J., Resigned, 22


340




INDEX


Bond, Erik C., Assistant Professor of English at
UM-Dearborn, 18
Booker, Andrew R., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 95
Booth, John L., II, reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Borders, James M., Sabbatical leave, 99
Borjigin, Jimo, Assistant Professor of Molecular
and Integrative Physiology, 56
Borkin, Harold J., Retired, 135; Retirement
memoir, 155
Bornstein, George J., Duty off campus, 152
Borsa, Paul A., Resigned, 64
Borschel, Debaroti M., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, 60
Botero, Tatiana M., Assistant Professor of
Dentistry, 313
Bothun, Erick D., Term completed, 65
Bouma, Rolf, Lecturer II in Environment, 56
Bourgeois, Elizabeth K., Assistant Professor of
Theatre at U-M Flint, 56
Boxer, Laurence A., Henry and Mala Dorfman
Family Professor of Pediatric
Hematology/Oncology, 15; appointed to the
Medical School Executive Committee, 56
Boyapiti, Chandrasekhar, Assistant Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, 204
Boyd, Belanie A., Lecturer II in Women's
Studies, 132
Boyd, Carol J., Sabbatical leave, 152
Boyd, Eddie L., Retired, 65; Retirement
memoir, 67
Bozer, Yavuz A., Ford Motor Company
Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber
Manufacturing Institutue, 14
Bozynski, Mary Ellen, Additional appointment
as Professor of Medical Education, with
tenure, 94
Brackbill, Erin L., Clinical Instructor in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, 56
Bradford, Carol R., Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, 273
Brakel, Linda W., Adjunct Clinical Associate
Professor of Psychiatry, 278
Brandon, David A. (Regent, 1999-), Comments
on the State's budget cuts, 143
Brandt, Mary-Margaret, Change to leave of
absence dates, 101
Brandwin, Marvin A., Reappointed to active
status, 280
Bratton, Susan L., Resigned, 315
Brennan, Kathleen A., Resigned, 64
Bretz, Michael, Extended sick leave, 152


Brewer, George J., Reappointed to active status,
61; Reappointed to active status, 314
Bria, William F., Clinicial Associate Professor
of Internal Medicine, 278
Briggs, Dale, Reappointed to active status, 61
Briggs, Josephine P., Public service leave
extended, 149; Resigned, 315
Bright, Charles C., Sabbatical leave, 62;
Scholarly activity leave, 62
Britton, Steven L., Professor of Molecular and
Integrative Physiology, without tenure, 241;
Professor of Physical Medicine and
Rehabilititation, with tenure, 241
Bronstein, Paul M., Duty off campus, 227;
Sabbatical leave, 227; Retired, 245;
Retirement memoir, 245
Brooks, Sharon L., Term expired on the School
of Dentistry Executive Committee, 17
Brower, Kirk D., Sabbatical leave, 20
Brown, Allan C., Retired, 102; Retirement
memoir, 136; Reappointed to active status,
151
Brown, Catherine, Appointed to the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board, 312
Brown, Daniel G., Reappointed to School of
Natural Resources and Environment
Executive Committee, 17
Brown, Donald R., Reappointed to active status,
205
Brown, Joseph W., Clinical Associate Professor
of Health Behavior and Health Education,
243
Brown, Morton, Correction to date of retirement
furlough, 244; Retirement memoir, 283;
Retired, 315
Brown, Randall W., Resigned, 315
Brown, Richard B., Resigned, 228
Brown, Richard K.J., Clinical Associate
Professor of Radiology, 313
Brown, Terry J., Extended sick leave, 100
Browning, Kimberly G., Resigned, 102
Bruggeman, Teresa M., Additional appointment
as Lecturer in Kinesiology, 205
Brush, Barbara A., Associate Professor of
Nursing, with tenure, 276
Bryant, Bunyan I., Jr., Additional appointment
as Professor of Urban Planning, without
tenure, 94
Buchberger, Sophie, Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 95
Bucher, Rodney S., Clinical Lecturer in
Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, 57
Buchman, Steven R., Additional appointment as
Associate Professor of Neurosurgery,


341




INDEX


without tenure, 53; Professor of
Neurosurgery, without tenure, 273;
Professor of Surgery, with tenure, 273
Bucholtz, Inger L., Lecturer II in French, 57
Buddhakulsomsiri, Jirachai, Assistant Professor
of Industrial and Manufacturing Systems
Engineering at UM-Dearborn, 95
Bude, Ronald 0., Sabbatical leave, 152
Budget, 2003-2004 All Campus Budget book
received, 73; Comments from President
Coleman on the State's latest budget cuts,
141; Comments from Regent Deitch on the
State's budget cuts, 142; Comments from
Regent Newman on the State's budget cuts,
142; Comments from Regent Taylor on the
State's budget cuts, 142; Comments from
Regent Brandon on the State's budget cuts,
143; Comments from Regent Maynard on
the State's budget cuts, 143
Bullock, Esther S., Resigned, 102
Bulman, Luke T., Lecturer in Architecture, 18
Burdi, Alphonse R., Retired, 102; Retirement
memoir, 102
Burke, William M., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 18
Burkel, William E., Retired, 65; Retirement
memoir, 68; Reappointed to active status,
134; Correction to dates of reappointment
to active status, 152
Burns, Mark A., Sabbatical leave, 62
Burns, Nancy E., Warren E. Miller Collegiate
Professor of Political Science, 311
Burns, Peggy, Assistant Dean for Advancement
in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, 17
Burnstein, James S., Lecturer III in Film and
Video Studies, 243
Burrows, Heather L., Clinical Instructor in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, 18
Burson, Katherine A., Lecturer in Business, 95
Burstein, Ariel T., Resigned, 135
Bush, Phillip, Resigned, 245
Bushman, Brad J., Professor of Communication
Studies, with tenure, 13; Professor of
Psychology, without tenure, 13
Butler, John R., Term completed, 102
Bybee, Lauretta V., Resigned, 245
Byosiere, Philippe H.R., Resigned, 245
C
C-3 Partners, Lease agreement with approved,
295


Cabana, Michael D., Associate Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
with tenure, 273
Cadigan, Kenneth M., Associate Professor of
Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental
Biology, with tenure, 272
Calarco, Margaret M., Reappointed Associate
Dean for Clinical Affairs in the School of
Nursing, 131
Caldwell, Cleopatra Howard, Associate
Professor of Health Behavior and Health
Education, with tenure, 275
Callalli-Villafuerte, Ines, Lecturer I in
Anthropology, 95
Camara, Antonio, Associate Professor of
Finance, without tenure, at UM-Flint, 93
Cameron, Oliver G., Retired, 23; Retirement
memoir, 25; Reappointed to active status,
61; Reappointed to active status, 205;
Reappointed to active status, 314
Caminker, Evan H., Recommended by Provost
Courant to be dean of Law School, 13;
Dean of the Law School, 17
Campbell, Carolyn, Retired, 245
Canman, Christine E., Assistant Professor of
Pharmacology, 313
Canning, Kathleen M., Professor of History,
with tenure, 272; Professor of Women's
Studies, without tenure, 272
Cao, Yue, Associate Professor of Radiation
Oncology, without tenure, 14; Additional
appointment as Associate Professor of
Radiology, without tenure, 149
Capital Campaign, Overview of upcoming
campaign to be called "The Michigan
Difference", 193; Formal launch of "The
Michigan Difference" campaign
announced, 235
Capital Outlay Program, Information submitted
for FY 2005 submission to the State, 160
Capozza, Dennis R., Dale L. Dykema Professor
of Business Administration, 132
Cardiovascular Center, Phase I approved and
authorized for issuing bids and awarding
contracts, 29
Carli, Thomas, Assistant Dean for Clinical
Affairs in the Medical School, 55
Carlson, Christopher J., Resigned, 22
Carlson, Heather A., John Gideon Searle
Assistant Professor of Medicinal Chemistry,
55
Carpenter, James E., Chair of the Department of
Orthopaedic Surgery, 94; Harold W. and
Helen L. Gehring Professor of Orthopaedic
Surgery, 94


342




INDEX


Carr, Gerald L., Term completed, 188
Carr, Robert I., Retired, 245; Retirement
memoir, 283
Carson, John S., Scholarly activity leave, 62;
Associate Professor of History, with tenure,
272
Cartee, Gregory D., Appointed to the Division
of Kinesiology Executive Committee, 312
Carter, Deborah F., Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure, 309
Casa, Frank P., Duty off campus, 206
Case, Beau D., Additional appointment as
Lecturer II in Germanic Languages and
Literatures, 243
Casement, Rose, Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure, at UM-Flint, 275
Castle, Valerie P., Recommended by Provost
Courant for appointment as chair of the
Department of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 52; Chair of the
Department of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 53; Ravitz
Foundation Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 225
Ceballo, Rosario, Associate Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, 272; Associate
Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure,
272
Ceccio, Steven L., Appointed to the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board, 312
Cecil J. and Ethel M. Nesbitt Professor of
Actuarial Mathematic, Virginia R. Young
appointed, 53
Central Campus Plan, Comments from President
Coleman on her vision for central campus,
85
Central Campus Recreation Building,
Kinesiology basement laboratory
renovation approved and authorized for
issuing bids and awarding construction
contracts, 29; New fitness center approved
and authorized for issuing bids and
awarding contracts, 139
Central Power Plant, Replacement of steam
pressure reducing valves project approved
and authorized for issuing bids and
awarding contracts, 74; Staff commended
for performance during blackout, 74;
480-volt station power system upgrade -
south side project approved for issuing bids
and awarding contracts, 75; Low-pressure
steam header improvements for Central
Power Plant North approved and authorized


for issuing bids and awarding construction
contracts, 326
Cetola, Henry W., Lecturer in Psychology, 57
Cewell, Don B., Retirement furlough, 206
Chaffin, Don B., Richard G. Snyder
Distinguished University Professor of
Industrial and Operations Engineering, 132
Chambers, David L., III, Retired, 135;
Retirement memoir, 155
Chambers, Julius, Recommendation to award
honorary degree approved, 229
Chames, Mark, Clinical Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, 57
Chan, Emily, Lecturer I in Psychology, 204;
Term Completed, 315
Chan, June L., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Radiation Oncology, 151
Chan-Lau, Juan J., Resigned, 22
Chandler, William F., Additional appointment
as Professor of Internal Medicine, without
tenure, 53
Chang, Andrew C., Assistant Professor of
Surgery, 226
Chapman, Daniel K., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Emergency Medicine, and
Clinical Instructor in Environmental and
Industrial Health, 278
Chapman, Matthew R., Assistant Professor of
Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental
Biology, 57
Charland, Paule M., Resigned, 64
Charles Gibson Distinguished Professorship in
History, Rebecca J. Scott appointed, 15
Charles L. Stevenson Collegiate Professorship
in Philosophy, Kendall L. Walton
reappointed, 311
Charles, Kerwin K., Sabbatical leave, 20;
Appointed to the Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy Executive Committee, 242;
Associate Professor of Economics, without
tenure, 272
Chavous, Tabbye M., Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure, 309
Cheek, Timothy M., Scholarly activity leave,
280
Cheetah-Omni, License agreement with
approved, 320
Chen, Weiyun, Assistant Professor of
Kinesiology, 95
Chen, Xian, Clinical Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, 243
Chen, Xiang, Resigned, 64
Chen, Zhan, Dow Corning Assistant Professor
of Chemistry, 54


343




INDEX


Chenoweth, Carol E., Clinical Associate
Professor of Epidemiology, 133
Chemew, Michael E., Professor of Health
Management and Policy, with tenure, 275
Cherry-Garr, Sandra S., Term completed, 102
Chesler, Mark A., Correction to date of
retirement furlough, 244; Retired, 281;
Retirement memoir, 284
Chestek, Kenneth D., Resigned, 22
Chethik, Morton, Reappointed to active status,
205
Chiboucas, Kristin S., Lecturer I in Astronomy,
95
Chick, Stephen E., Resigned, 64
Chiclana, Arleen, Assistant Professor of Spanish
at U-M Dearborn, 57
Chidambaram, Rama, Lecturer in Mathematics
at U-M Dearborn, 57; Correction of title to
Assistant Professor of Mathematics at
UM-Flint, 133
Chiego, Daniel J., Appointed to the School of
Dentistry Executive Committee, 312
Chien, Alexander J., Term completed, 65
Chin, Rita C. K., Assistant Professor of History,
57
Chinnaiyan, Arul M., Associate Professor of
Pathology, with tenure, 273; Associate
Professor of Urology, without tenure, 273
Chiravuri, Srinivas, Lecturer in Anesthesiology,
57
Cho, Eun-Su, Term completed, 208
Cho, Soyun, Term completed, 65
Chodacki, Deborah S., Sabbatical leave, 20
Choe, Hae M., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Pharmacy, 98
Chong, Hwa, Lecturer in Physical Education,
204
Christy, Barbara S., Lecturer in Nursing, 95
Chugh, Aman, Clinical Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 57
Clague, Mark, Assistant Professor of Music, 57
Claribel Baird Halstead Professorship, Philip
Kerr reappointed, 242
Clark, Elaine G., Sabbatical leave, 206
Clark, Noreen M., Additional appointment as
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, without tenure, 131
Clark-MXR, Inc., Purchasing agreements with
approved, 30, 250; Authorization for
increase in amount of purchase order
approved, 77
Clauw, Daniel J., Additional appointment as
Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, 276
Clay, Michael A., Resigned, 245


Clements Library Associates Board of
Governors, Appointments made, 55
Clements Library Committee of Management,
Appointments made, 242
Clewell, Don B., Retirement furlough, 100
Clinthome, Neal H., Research Professor of
Radiology, 278
Cogburn, Derrick L., Duty off campus, 152
Cohen, David K., Reappointed John Dewey
Professor of Education, 16
Cohn, Natalie R., Lecturer I in Romance
Languages and Literatures, 95
Coibion, Ava J., Term completed, 208
Cole, Jaun R., Sabbatical leave, 227
Coleman, Andrew M., Duty off campus, 206
Coleman, Mary Sue (President, 2002-),
Comments on challenges of FY 2005
budget proposal, 215; Presentation to the
Board of her "Vision Statement" of future
goals and aspirations, 233; Text of "Future
Directions: Shaping the Michigan
Difference", 253
College of Engineering, Advanced Technologies
Laboratories Biomedical Engineering
Project approved and authorized for issuing
bids and awarding contracts, 74; Computer
Science and Engineering Building project
approved and authorized for issuing bids
and awarding contracts, 74; Regents'
Resolution in honor of sesquicentennial
celebration, 170
College of Engineering Executive Committee,
Appointments made, 56, 242
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Associate Dean for Academic Affairs
reorganized into Associate Dean for
Humanities, Associate Dean for Natural
Sciences, and Associate Dean for Social
Sciences, 277; Associate Dean for
Undergraduate Education and Long Range
Planning renamed Associate Dean for
Undergraduate and Graduate Education,
277
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Building, Renovation project approved and
authorized for issuing bids and awarding
contracts, 74
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Executive Committee, Appointments made,
312
College of Pharmacy, Pharmacy College
Building lab remodeling project approved
and authorized for issuing bids and
awarding construction contracts, 230;
Pharmacy College Building lab remodeling


344




INDEX


project design commissioned to Integrated
Design Solutions, 230
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee,
Appointment made, 243
Colletti, Lisa M., Associate Dean for Graduate
Medical Education, Medical School, 53;
Resigned from the Medical School
Executive Committee, 56; Professor of
Surgery, with tenure, 273
Collins, Derek B., Scholarly activity leave, 20;
Associate Professor of Greek and Latin,
with tenure, 272
Collins, Francis S., Public service leave
extended, 149; Resigned, 245
Collins, Peter A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive
Studies, 18
Collins, Steven H., student representative to
Committee on Honorary Degrees, 56
Colwell, Miles O., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
278
Commercial Paper Program, Approval to
increase amount outstanding, 28;
Replacement of present program with a new
program approved, 325
Committee on Honorary Degrees, Appointments
made, 17, 56
Committee on the Economic Status of the
Faculty (CESF), Annual report for Ann
Arbor campus, 302; Annual report for
Dearborn campus, 302; Annual report for
Flint campus, 302
Community Resources Limited, Payment for
approved, 319
Comstock, Christine H., Adjunct Clinical
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
278
Conflict of Interest Contracts, Purchasing
agreement with Wright Medical
Technology approved, 29; Purchasing
agreement with Xoran Technologies
approved, 30; Purchasing agreements with
Clark-MXR, Inc. approved, 30; Option
agreement with Mobius Microsystems
approved, 31; Research agreement with
Molecular Therapeutics, Inc. approved, 31;
Amendment to license agreement with
Sensicore, Inc. approved, 32; Authorization
for payment for Hesseltine & DeMason
Design Inc. approved, 76; Lease agreement
with Traverwood II LLC approved, 76;
Lease agreement with William C. Martin
approved, 76; Authorization for increase in
amount of purchase order with Clark-MXR,
Inc. approved, 77; Payment for Xoran


Technologies approved, 77; Purchasing
contract with Valley View Farm approved,
77; Subcontract agreement with
Instrumentation Associates, Inc. approved,
78; Subcontract agreement with Purdue
University approved, 78; Subcontract
agreement with Therapeutic Systems
Research Laboratories, Inc. approved, 78;
Amendment to subcontract agreement with
Veridian Systems Division, Inc. approved,
79; License agreement with Neural
Intervention Technologies, Inc. approved,
79; Subcontract agreement with
ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc.
approved, 79; License agreement with GMP
Immunotherapeutics approved, 80;
Subcontract agreement with LivingText,
LLC approved, 80; Subcontract agreement
with Dentigenix, LLC approved, 81;
Subcontract agreement with NanoCure
Corporation approved, 82; Subcontract
agreement with Neural Intervention
Technologies, Inc. approved, 82;
Subcontract agreement with NotABook,
Inc. approved, 82; Research agreement with
Nephros Therapeutics, Inc. approved, 83;
Subcontract agreement with the University
of Notre Dame approved, 83; Purchasing
contract with NotABook Publishing, Inc.
approved, 106; Lease agreement with 3600
Green Court Corporation c/o Altarum, 107;
Purchasing contract with HealthMedia, Inc.
approved, 107; Purchasing contract with
Valley View Farm approved, 107; Research
agreement with Accu Therapeutics,Inc.
approved, 107; Research agreement with
Accu Therapeutics,Inc. approved, 108;
Amendment to license agreement with
Learner-Centered Technologies, LLC (dba
GoKnow) approved, 109; Research
agreement with Michigan State University
approved, 109; Option agreement with
Discera, Inc. approved, 110; Research
agreement with GMP Immunotherapeutics,
Inc. apporved, 110; Research agreement
with Thromgen, Inc., 110; Subcontract
agreement with Mayaterials, Co. approved,
111; Payment for Ann Arbor IT Zone
approved, 121; Payment for Paul E.
Schneider Enterprises approved, 122;
Purchasing contract with Intralase
Corporation approved, 122; Research
agreement with KeraCure, Inc. approved,
122; License agreement with Mobius
Microsystems approved, 123; Option


345




INDEX


agreement with Mobius Microsystems
approved, 123; Subcontract agreement with
the University of Illinois approved, 123;
Research agreement with Michigan State
University approved, 124; Subcontract
agreement with Therapeutic Systems
Research Laboratories, Inc. approved, 124;
Subcontract agreement with General
Dynamics Advanced Information Systems,
Inc. approved, 125; Subcontract agreement
with Therapeutic Systems Research
Laboratories, Inc. approved, 125;
Purchasing contract with M. W.
ProctorGroup LLC approved, 161;
Subcontract agreement with Michigan
Aerospace Corporation approved, 161;
Agreement with Mechanical Systems
Corporation approved, 162; Research
agreement with Michigan Aerospace
Corporation approved, 162; Subcontract
agreement with Molecular Therapeutics,
Inc. approved, 162; Reassignment
agreement with Richard Solomon approved,
163; Subcontract agreement with Veridian
Systems Division, Inc. approved, 163;
Option agreement with Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc. approved, 164;
Agreement with the Great Lakes
Commission approved, 169; Lease
agreement with Traverwood III LLC
approved, 210; Lease amendments with
William C. Martin approved for property
located at 540 E. Liberty Street, 211;
Subcontract agreement with NanoBio
Corporation approved, 211; Amendment to
license agreement with Rubicon Genomics,
Inc. approved, 212; Option agreement with
Ablation Frontiers approved, 212; Materials
evaluation agreement with NanoBio
Corporation approved, 213; Membership
agreementbetween Wireless Integrated
Microsystems and Sensicore approved, 213;
Subcontract agreement with Michigan
Aerospace Corporation approved, 213;
Option agreement with Triana, LLC
approved, 230; Research agreement with
the University Consortium for Advanced
Internet Development (Internet2) approved,
231; Subcontract agreement with EMAG
Technologies, Inc. approved, 231; License
agreement with NeuroProbe Technologies,
LLC approved, 232; Payment approved for
Latinos Unidos, Inc., 250; Payment
approved for Meridian Productions, 250;
Purchasing contract with Clark-MXR


approved, 250; Membership agreement with
Discera approved, 251; Purchasing contract
with Patricia Olynyk approved, 251;
Subcontract agreement with T/J
Technologies, Inc. approved, 251; Lease
agreement with C-3 Partners approved, 295;
Lease amendment with Dong-Soo Kim
approved, 295; Purchasing contract with
Measurement Systems, Inc. approved, 295;
Amendment to license agreement with
Keracure, LLC, approved, 296; License
agreement with Oncolmmune approved,
296; Lease amendment agreement with
William C. Martin approved, 319; Payment
for Community Resources Limited
approved, 319; Purchasing contract with
Valley View Farm approved, 319; License
agreement with Cheetah-Omni approved,
320; Maintenance agreement with Arbor
Networks approved, 320; Maintenance
agreement with Intralase Corporation
approved, 320; Research agreement with
Ascenta, Inc., approved, 320; License
agreement with Mayaterials approved, 321;
Subcontract agreement with Atactic
Technologies approved, 321; Memorandum
of understanding with Veterans Education
and Research Association of Michigan
approved, 322; Subcontract agreement with
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.,
approved, 322; Subcontract agreement with
NanoBio Corporation approved, 322;
License agreement with Ablation Frontiers
approved, 323; Research agreement with
Precision Optical Machining, Inc.,
approved, 323; Subcontract agreement with
Novalung, Inc., approved, 323
Conforth, Bruce M., Lecturer I in American
Studies, 204
Conrad, Brian D., Received 2004 Henry Russel
Award, 214
Constance F. and Arnold C. Pohs Visiting
Associate Professorship in
Telecommunications, Harmeet S. Sawhney
appointed, 186
Constant, Caroline B., Term expired on the A.
Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning Executive Committee,
312
Contratto, Susan, Term completed, 188
Conway, Collen M., Associate Professor of
Music Education, with tenure, 274
Cook, James W., Jr., Duty off campus leave, 62;
Scholarly activity leave, 62; Associate


346




INDEX


Professor of American Studies, with tenure,
272; Associate Professor of History, with
tenure, 272
Cooke, James M., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Family Medicine, 278
Coon, Minor J., Reappointed to active status,
152
Cooper, Edward H., Reappointed Thomas M.
Cooley Professor of Law, 16
Cooper, Vaughn S., Lecturer II in Psychology,
18; Lecturer II in Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, 98
Cope, Virgil, Chair of the Department of
Chemistry at UM-Flint, 14
Corcoran, Mary E., Sabbatical leave, 20
Cornblath, Wayne T., Clinical Professor of
Neurosurgery, 278; Clinical Professor of
Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, 278
Cornejo-Krohn, Lourdes, Lecturer I in
Residential College, 57
Cornish, Alison, Sabbatical leave, 62
Cornish, Anthony P., Lecturer I in Classical
Studies, 186
Cortina, Kai S., Duty off campus, 152
Cortina, Lilia M., Duty off campus, 20
Cotera, Maria E., Correction to dates of
previously reported leave of absence, 154
Cottrell, Kelly R., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Dentistry, 57
Covrig, Vicentiu M., Resigned, 64
Crane, Gregg D., Associate Professor of English
Language and Literature, with tenure, 53
Crawford, Richard A., Retired, 245; Retirement
memoir, 285
Crocker, Keith J., Resigned, 64
Crofford, Leslie Jane, Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure, 273
Croley, Steven P., Associate Dean for Academic
Affairs, Law School, 14
Croskery-Roberts, Rachel E., Childcare leave,
100
Crowfoot, James E., Reappointed to active
status, 61, 134, 152
Crundwell, Robert M., Assistant Professor of
Education, 57
Cubero, Rosa Maria Serrano, Term completed,
65
Cueto, Nisrin B., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry,
151; Term completed, 281
Cullen, Julianne B., Resigned, 135
Cumming, Valerie M., Term completed, 23
Curlew, Douglas J., Term completed, 188
Curley, Edwin M., James B. and Grace J.
Nelson Professor of Philosophy, 311


Curzan, Anne L., Duty off campus, 152;
Associate Professor of Education, without
tenure, 272; Associate Professor of English
Language and Literature, with tenure, 272
Cwikiel, Wojciech B., Clinical Associate
Professor of Radiology, 313
Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in
Cardiovascular Research, Established, 150
D
D'Amato, Constance J., Reappointed to active
status, 244
D. Maynard Phelps Collegiate Professorship in
Business Administration, Michael D.
Johnson reappointed, 16
Dabak, Shubhangi, Lecturer I in Germanic
Languages and Literatures, 95
Dahlgren, Amy E., Clinical Instructor in
Emergency Medicine, 57
Dale L. Dykema Professorship in Business
Administration, Dennis R. Capozza
appointed, 132
Damato, Constance J., Reappointed to active
status, 61
Dance, William H., reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Dang, Duyen, Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, 57
Dang, Long, Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, 18
Daniels, Patricia, Assistant Professor of
Education at U-M Flint, 57
Danziger, Sandra K., Professor of Social Work,
with tenure, 275; Research Professor of
Public Policy, 278
Danziger, Sheldon H., Appointed to the Gerald
R. Ford School of Public Policy Executive
Committee, 243
Darnell, Richard E., Retired, 245; Retirement
memoir, 315
Das, Sunil K., Reappointed to active status, 99
Dastjerdi, Mohammad H., Term completed, 65
Daubenmeier, Judith M., Lecturer II in
American Culture, 204
Daugherty, Michael K., Sabbatical leave, 20
Dauwe, Loretta, Interim Chair of the
Department of Computer Science at
UM-Flint, 131
David M. French Professorship at U-M Flint,
Margaret F. Kahn appointed, 55
Davidson, Natalie S., Term completed, 188
Davies, Pamela S., Resigned, 64
Davis, David E., Jr., Recommendation to award
honorary degree approved, 229


347




INDEX


Davis, Gerald F., Jack D. Sparks-Whirlpool
Corporation Research Professor of Business
Administration, 15
Davis, Mary Lou, Lecturer I in Organizational
Studies, 150
Davis, Matthew M., Additional appointment as
Assistant Professor of Public Policy, 243
Davis, Pamela, Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 132
Dawson, Carol A., Lecturer in Nursing, 204
Dean, Margaret L., Additional appointment as
Lecturer II in Lloyd Hall Scholars Program,
60
Deardorf, Alan V., Appointed to the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive
Committee, 312
Debold, Vicky P., Personal medical leave, 100;
Term completed, 245
Dechow, Patricia M., Sabbatical leave, 100
Deeb, G. Michael, Herbert Sloan Collegiate
Professor of Cardiac Surgery, 131
Deegan, Thomas J., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Emergency Medicine, Clinical Assistant
Professor o Pediatrics Hospitalists, and
Clinical Assistant Professor of Medical
Education, 278
Degelsmith, Laurence M., Resigned, 281
Degnim, Amy C., Term completed, 23
Degrees, 2003-2004, August 2003 doctoral
degree list approved, 28; Changes to
previously approved degree lists approved,
28; Final degree lists for May and June
2003 approved, 28; August 2003 doctoral
degree list approved, 104; Changes to
previously approved degree lists approved,
104; Final degree lists for May and June
2003 approved, 104; Approval of changes
to previously approved degree lists, 208;
Approval of doctoral degree lists for
December 2003, 208; Approval of final
degree lists for December 2003, 208;
Approval of changes to previously
approved degree lists, 247; Approval of
doctoral degree lists for April 2004, 247;
Approval of final degree lists for December
2003 Law School commencement, 247
Degroot, Elizabeth A., Assistant Professor of
Education, 18
Deitch, Laurence B. (Regent, 1993-),
Comments on the State's budget cuts, 142;
Comments regarding revisions to Bylaws
1.06 and 1.07, 327; Comments by Regents
regarding his service as chair, 329
de la Vega-Hurtado, Margarita, Term
completed, 188


Delbanco, Francesca B., Resigned, 22
de Leon, Cedric, Lecturer II in Sociology, 313
Delgado, Jose E., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry,
Department of Prosthodontics, 60; Lecturer
in Dentistry, Department of Cardiology,
Restorative Sciences, and Endodontics, 60
Deloria, Philip J., Director of the Program in
American Culture, 53; Duty off campus,
187; Professor of American Culture, with
tenure, 272; Professor of History, with
tenure, 272
Delva, Jorge, Associate Professor of Social
Work, with tenure, 275
de Marignac, Armand Galissard, Term
completed, 65
Demb, Jonathan, Assistant Professor of
Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental
Biology, 57; Assistant Professor of
Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, 57
Dental Building, Dental Building and W.K.
Kellogg Institute elevator replacement
approved and authorized for issuing bids
and awarding construction contracts, 230
Dentigenix, LLC, Subcontract agreement with
approved, 81
Depression Center, Facility named the Rachel
Upjohn Building, 249; Revised budget and
schematic design approved, 249
Derksen, Hendrikus G., Duty off campus, 187;
Associate Professor of Mathematics, with
tenure, 272
DeSanto, Paola C., Lecturer I in Romance
Languages and Literatures, 57
DesJardins, Stephen L., Reappointed to the
School of Education Executive Committee,
312
Dey, Eric L., from Associate Dean to Executive
Associate Dean of the School of Education,
55
Diamante, Maximiliano, Clinical Lecturer in
Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, 186
Diedrich, Duane N., Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Dierker, Steven B., Leave without salary
extended, 15, 62
Dimendberg, Edward, Associate Professor of
Architecture, with tenure, 272; Associate
Professor of Film and Video Studies, with
tenure, 272; Associate Professor of
Germanic Languages and Literatures, with
tenure, 272
Dimo, Mary E., Childcare leave, 100; Duty off
campus leave, 100; Resigned, 135


348




INDEX


DiNardo, John E., Term expired on the Gerald
R. Food School of Public Policy Executive
Committee, 242
Dipietro, Michael A., Sabbatical leave, 152
Discera, Inc., Option agreement with approved,
110; Membership agreement with approved,
251
Distinguished Alumni Service Award Selection
Committee, Appointments made, 17, 277
Dittmar, Amy K., Assistant Professor of
Finance, 18; Lecturer in Finance, 18
Dittmar, Robert F., Assistant Professor of
Finance, 18; Lecturer in Finance, 18
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee,
Appointments made, 312
Dixon, Travis L., Resigned, 22
Dlugosz, Andrzej A., Professor of Dermatology,
with tenure, 273
Dominguez, Kathryn M., Sabbatical leave, 20;
Professor of Economics, without tenure,
275; Professor of Public Policy, with
tenure, 275
Donahue, Kelli J., Lecturer in Kinesiology, 204
Donald R. Peacor Collegiate Professorship in
Geological Sciences, Rodney C. Ewing
appointed, 54
Donia, Robert J., Helen L. DeRoy Visiting
Professor in Honors, 150
Donor Pooled Income Fund, American Funds'
Capital Income Builder approved as vehicle
for donor pooled income fund, 73
Doris, David T., Assistant Profesor of History of
Art, 57; Correction in appointment from
Assistant Professor of American Culture
Program to Assistant Professor of
Afroamerican and African Studies, 60
Douglas, Susan J., Chair of the Department of
Communication Studies, 277
Dow Coming Assistant Professorship in
Chemistry, Zhan Chen appointed, 54
Dow Coming Assistant Professorship in
Material Science and Engineering, Michael
L. Falk apointed, 55
Dow Professorship in Toxicology, Rudy J.
Richardson reappointed, 55
Downey, John P., Retirement memoir, 68
Drake, William D., Retired, 23; Retirement
memoir, 26
Driscoll, James F., Interim Chair of the
Department of Aerospace Engineering, 53
Duan, Cunming, Sabbatical leave, 20
Duanmu, San, Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, 272
Duderstadt, James J., Media Union named the
James and Ann Duderstadt Center, 115;


Comments on the occasion of the naming of
the Media Union in his honor, 117
Duenyas, Izak, Reappointed Associate Dean of
the School of Business Administration, 309
Dufallo, Basil J., Lecturer II in Classical
Studies, 57
Dufek, Candace, Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Duff, Michael J., Reappointed the Oskar Klein
Collegiate Professor of Physics, 277
Duncan, Robert K., Correction of title to
Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology,
133
Dunkle, Ruth E., Wilbur J. Cohen Collegiate
Professor of Social Work, 131; Term
expired on the School of Social Work
Executive Committee, 243
Dunlap, Paul V., Associate Professor of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, 272
Dunnick, N. Reed, Appointed to the Medical
School Executive Committee, 17; Term
expired on the Medical School Executive
Committee, 312
Durrance, Joan C., Margaret Mann Collegiate
Professor of Information, 150
Dutta, Debasish, Intergovernmental leave
beyond one year, 242; Correction to
previously reported dates of
intergovernmental leave, 311;
Intergovernmental leave, 314
Dwamena, Ben A., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Radiology, 278
Dworkin, Steven N., Duty off campus, 206
Dzhamay, Anton, Term Completed, 315
Dziuszko, Thomas M., Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
E
Eagleton, Matthew J., Assistant Professor of
Surgery, 18
Ealovega, Mark, Clinical Instructor in Internal
Medicine, 18
Earl Warren DeLano Professorship in Law,
James E. Krier reappointed, 16
Earle, William G., Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Easter, Stephen S., Jr., Retired, 154; Retirement
memoir, 156
Eaton, Kathryn, Associate Professor of
Comparative Veterinary Pathology, with
tenure, 13; Associate Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, without
tenure, 13
Echandi, Gloriana, Resigned, 64


349




INDEX


Eckhardt, Boris, Lecturer in Radiology, 18
Eckhause, Tobias A., Lecturer II in Physics, 313
Edlund, Steven Z., Clinical Lecturer in Oral and
Maxillofacial Surgery, 60
Edward Henry Kraus Building, Project to
replace elevators 1 and 2 approved and
authorized for issuing bids and awarding
construction contracts, 294
Edwards, Paul N., Scholarly activity leave, 62
Ehrlich, Peter F., Clinical Associate Professor of
Surgery, 186
Eibschitz-Tsimhoni, Maya, Clinical Lecturer in
Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, 57
Eichhom-Mulligan, Amy C., Appointment as
Lecturer in the Graduate School cancelled,
205
Einhorn, Martin B., Sabbatical leave, 20
Eisenberg, Diane E., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Law, 18
Eisendrath, Charles R., Reappointed to
Clements Library Associates Board of
Governors, 55
Eisentraeger, Anne K., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 151
Ekotto, Frieda, Duty off campus, 153
El-Shaikh, Mohamed A., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Radiation Oncology, 95
ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc., Subcontract
agreement with approved, 79
Eleftheriou, Eleni, Term completed, 65
Elenbogen, Bruce S., Sabbatical leave, 134
Eley, Geoffrey H., Scholarly activity leave, 20;
Chair of the Department of Germanic
Languages and Literatures, 277
Eliav, Yaron A., Reappointed the Jean and
Samuel Frankel Professor of Rabbinic
Literature, 94
Elitzer, Haggai, Lecturer I in Comprehensive
Studies, 95
Elitzur, Haggai, Additional appointment as
Lecturer II in Mathematics, 205
Elizabeth A. Long Professorship in Law,
Catharine A. MacKinnon reappointed, 16
Ellis, Nicholas C., Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, 309
Ellison, Julie, Professor of American Culture
with tenure, 17; Professor of English
Language and Literature without tenure, 17;
Additional appointment as Professor of Art,
without tenure, 225
Ellsworth, David S., Associate Professor of
Plant Ecophysiology, with tenure, 274
Ellsworth, Phoebe C., Frank Murphy
Distinguished University Professor of Law
and Psychology, 15


Elner, Victor M., Professor of Pathology,
without tenure, 273
Elsa Barkley Brown and Robin D.G. Kelley
Collegiate Professorship in History and
African American and African Studies, Earl
Lewis appointed, 15
EMAG Technologies, Inc., Subcontract
agreement with approved, 231
Emerson, Bob, Reappointed to the UM-Flint
Channel 28 Community Advisory Board,
313
Engel, Kristen G., Lecturer in Emergency
Medicine, 313
England, Anthony W., Associate Dean for
Academic Affairs in the College of
Engineering, 242
Environmental Stewardship, University received
2002 Energy Star Combined Heat and
Power Award, 33; Ann Arbor Campus "one
of the best places to work as a commuter",
264
Epperson, James F., Lecturer II in Mathematics,
132; Resigned, 154
Epstein, Karen A., Lecturer II in Psychology,
204
Epstein, Shifra, Lecturer I in Near Eastern
Studies, 96
Erdmann, Christine A., Assistant Professor of
Epidemiology, 96
Erickson, Donna L., Sabbatical leave, 62
Ertel, Inta J., Reappointed to active status, 205
Erwin, Elizabeth C., Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Eschrich, Gabriella, Associate Professor of
French, with tenure, at UM-Dearborn, 275
Eshel, Hanan, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting
Professor of Judaic Studies, 311
Esseesy, Mohssen, Term completed, 23
Eugene Applebuam Professorship in
Entrepreneurial Studies, Thomas C.
Kinnear reappointed, 16
Evans, Adye Bel, Retirement memoir, 103
Evans, Jeffrey E., Clinical Associate Professor
of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
278
Everett, Susan A., Assistant Professor of
Education at U-M Dearborn, 57
Ewer, Steven M., Clinical Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 18; Correction in appointment
from Clinical Lecturer to Clinical Instructor
in Internal Medicine, 60
Ewing, Rodney C., Professor of Geological
Sciences with tenure in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, 17;
Professor of Materials Science and


350




INDEX


Engineering without tenure in the College
of Engineering, 17; Professor of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences
without tenure in the College of
Engineering, 17; Donald R. Peacor
Collegiate Professor of Geological
Sciences, 54; Sabbatical leave, 62
Executive Vice President for Medical Affairs,
Robert Kelch introduced, 33
Expenditures, Temporary expenditure
authorization for the University Health
System approved for 2004-2005, 324;
Temporary expenditure authorization for
University operations approved for
2004-2005, 324
External Audit Report (Management Report and
Responses), Summary of report presented
to Finance, Audit and Investment
Committee by PricewaterhouseCoopers, 87
External Auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP reappointed for 2003-04, 190
F
Faculty Awards, Recently awarded Guggenheim
Fellows and National Academy of Sciences
members announced, 233
Faculty Promotions, Annual recommendations
for promotion presented, 263
Faculty-Student Relationships Policy, Regents
informed about implementation of new
policy, 232
Fadlalla, Amal H., Assistant Professor of
African and African-American Studies, 96;
Assistant Professor of Women's Studies, 96
Faeth, Gerard M., Additional appointment as
Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
without tenure, 241
Fajans, Stefan S., Reappointed to active status,
134
Falk, Michael L., Dow Corning Assistant
Professor of Material Science and
Engineering, 55
Falzetta, Lisa A., Lecturer in Nursing, 96
Faraway, Julian J., Additional appointment as
Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, without tenure, 310
Farley, W. Reynolds, Retired, 281; Retirement
memoir, 285
Fauman, Beverly J., Clinical Associate
Professor of Psychiatry, 96
Federbush, Paul G., Retirement furlough, 244;
Retirement memoir, 286; Retired, 315
Feeley-Harnik, Gillian, Kathleen Gough
Collegiate Professor of Anthropology, 94


Feinberg, Fred M., Bank One Corporation
Associate Professor of Business
Administration, 311
Feldman, Martha S., Resigned, 22
Felker (Dziekan), Julie A., Reappointed
Associate Dean of the UM-Dearborn
School of Management, 309
Felt, Barbara T., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, 19;
Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, 278
Fenno, Christopher J., Associate Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure, 271
Fessler, Jeffrey, Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, 271; Professor
of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure, 271; Professor of
Radiology, without tenure, 271
Fetters, Michael D., Associate Professor of
Family Medicine, with tenure, 273
Fields, Warren B., Clinical Instructor in Internal
Medicine, 57
Fierke, Carol A., Jerome and Isabella Karle
Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, 94
Fig, Lorraine M., Clinical Professor of
Radiology, 278
Filbrun, Amy G., Child care leave, 244
Fine, John V., Jr., Medical leave, 134;
Correction to dates of previously reported
leave of absence, 154
Fine, Sidney, Unable to serve on Michigan
Historical Collections Executive Committee
due to retirement, 132
Fingar, Diane C., Lecturer in Cell and
Developmental Biology, 277; Assistant
Professor of Cell and Developmental
Biology, 314; Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, 314
Fink, David J., Chair of the Department of
Neurology, 202; Professor of Neurology,
with tenure, 202; Robert W. Brear Professor
of Neurology, 202
Finkenstaedt, William C., Jr., Reappointed to
Clements Library Associates Board of
Governors, 55
Fischer, Theodore V., Reappointed to active
status, 205
Fisher, Maura A., Resigned, 102
Fisher, Richard L., Retired, 23; Retirement
memoir, 69; Replaced on the Advisory
Board on Intercollegiate Athletics due to
retirement, 95
Fishman, Barry, Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure, 271


351




INDEX


Fishman, Robert L., Appointed to the A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning Executive Committee, 312
Fisk, Lennard A., Sabbatical leave, 62
Fisseha, Senait, Clinical Lecturer in Obstetrics
and Gynecology, 57
Fitzgerald, James T., Associate Professor of
Medical Education, with tenure, 273
Fitzgerald, Mark, Appointed to the School of
Dentistry Executive Committee, 17
Flackett, Jennifer A., Term completed, 188
Flanders, Scott, Clinical Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, 96
Flannery, Ken V., Sabbatical leave, 62
Flax, Neil, Chair of the Department of
Humanities, at UM-Dearborn, 53
Flemming, Dexter K., Resigned, 22
Flint, Leroy E., Resigned, 154
Florida, Nancy K., Scholarly activity leave, 20;
Chair of the Department of Asian
Languages and Literatures, 277
Flynn, Gordon L., Reappointed to active status,
227
Fogel, Robert D., Retired, 154; Retirement
memoir, 156
Fogg, George C., Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 313
Foley, C. Fritz T., Assistant Professor of
Corporate Strategy and International
Business, 60
Follansbee, George L., Jr., Reappointed
Assistant Dean for Development and
Alumni Relations in the Law School, 202
Fontana, Robert J., Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure, 273
Foran, Michael, Chair of the Department of
Accounting and Finance at UM-Dearborm,
94; Correction to previously approved
communication, 132
Ford Nuclear Reactor, Decommissioning project
approved and authorized for issuing bids
and awarding contracts, 209
Ford, Ann R., Resigned, 102
Forman, Robert G., Reappointed to Committee
on Honorary Degrees, 17
Fortner, Richard W., Reappointed to active
status, 61
Fortson, Benjamin IV, Assistant Professor of
Classical Studies, 18
Foster, Michelle C., Term completed, 65
Foth, Tatyana E., Term Completed, 315
Fox, John L., Reappointed to Clements Library
Associates Board of Governors, 55
Fox, Merrit B., Resigned, 22
Frailberg, Steven, Resigned, 315


Frances and Victor Ginsberg Professorship in
Hematology/Oncology, Robert F. Todd, III,
reappointed, 242
Francis, Anthony H., Director of the Michigan
Memorial Phoenix Project, 14; Associate
Dean for Budget in the College of
Literature, Sciences, and the Arts, 310
Francis, Isaac R., Sabbatical leave, 153
Francis, Jacqueline R., William Wilhartz
Assistant Professor of the History of Art,
150
Francis, Janelle V., Lecturer I in Biological
Station, 313
Frank Murphy Distinguished University
Professorship in Law and Psychology,
Phoebe C. Ellsworth appointed, 15
Frank, Harry, Retirement memoir, 136
Frantz, Sarah, Lecturer II in English Language
and Literature, 96
Franzese, Jennifer R., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Internal Medicine, 278
Frazee, Richard W., Term completed, 23
Frazho, Robert L., Lecturer in Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation, 313
Frederick G. Novy Collegiate Professorship in
Microbiology and Immunology,
Established, 225; Harry L.T. Mobley
appointed, 241
Frederick G.L. Huetwell and William D.
Robinson, M.D. Professorship in
Rheumatology, Alisa E. Koch appointed, 13
Frederick G.L. Huetwell Professorship, Ann
Laura Stoler appointed, 16; Linda K.
Gregerson appointed, 16; Susan A. Gelman
reappointed, 277
Freed, Gary L., Sabbatical leave, 314
Freeman-Larsen, Diane E., Additional
appointment as Professor of Linguistics,
without tenure, 94
Freese, Katherine, Extended sick leave, 153
French, Nancy, Lecturer I in Environment, 151
Friedman, David I., Retirement furlough, 206
Friesen, Lauren D., Chair of the Department of
Theatre and Dance at UM-Flint, 94;
Professor of Theatre and Dance, with
tenure, at UM-Flint, 275
Fry-Welch, Donna, Associate Profess of
Physical Therapy, with tenure, at UM-Flint,
275
Fullerton, Judith, Reappointed to the UM-Flint
Channel 28 Community Advisory Board,
313
Fulton, John W., Term completed, 65
Fulton, William E., Reappointed M.S. Keeler II
Professor of Mathematics, 16


352




INDEX


Furman, Marva J., Professor of English, with
tenure, at UM-Flint, 275
Futuyma, Douglas J., Lawrence B. Slobodkin
Collegiate Professor of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, 94
G
G.E.M. Andscombe Collegiate Professorship in
Philosophy, J. David Velleman appointed,
15
Gadegbeku, Crystal, Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, 57
Gaggio, Dario, Duty off campus leave, 100
Gago, L. April, Clinical Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, 313
Gaither, Caroline A., Term expired on the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies Executive Board, 312
Gajarski, Robert J., Clinical Associate Professor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
278
Galiyas, Grayce M., Lecturer in Nursing, 96
Gallagher, Mary E., Scholarly activity leave,
100
Gallimore, Alec D., Professor of Aerospace
Engineering, with tenure, 271
Gammack, David, Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 132
Gandhi, Dheeraj, Lecturer in Radiology, 18
Garabrant, David H., Term expired on the Schol
of Public Health Executive Committee, 17;
Additional appointment as Professor of
Epidemiology, without tenure, 310
Gardner, Gerald T., Retired, 188; Retirement
memoir, 189
Garrett, Charles H., Instructor in Music
(Musicology), 151
Gartner, Elaina, Resigned, 135
Gassel, Robert K., Assistant Vice Chancellor for
Finance and Director of Financial Services
and Budget at UM-Dearborn, 242
Gateward, Frances K., Resigned, 64
Gauger, Paul G., Additional appointment as
Assistant Pofessor of Office of Educational
Resources and Research, 60
Gayle Halperin Kahn Professorship in
Integrative Medicine, Established, 15;
Steven F. Bolling appointed, 54
Gehring, William J., Arthur F. Thurnau
Professor, 203
Gelderloos, Orin G., Reappointed to the
UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters Executive Committee, 150


Gelman, Susan A., Reappointed the Frederick
G.L. Huetwell Professor, 277; Associate
Dean for Social Sciences in the College of
Literature, Sciences, and the Arts, 310
General Dynamics Advanced Information
Systems,Inc., Subcontract agreement with
approved, 125
Genig, Martha E., Lecturer in Nursing, 96;
Resigned, 188
George D. Zuidema Professorship in Surgery,
John D. Birkmeyer appointed, 130
George Granger Brown Professorship in
Chemical Engineering, Ronald G. Larson
reappointed, 242
George, Roshini, Clinical Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, 96
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, Ford on
campus for dedication of site for new
building, 33; New building named the Joan
and Sanford Weill Hall, 209; Joan and
Sanford Weill Hall project approved and
authorized for issuing bids and awarding
construction contracts, 326
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Executive Committee, Appointments made,
242
Gerber, Elisabeth R., Term expired on the
Gerald R. Food School of Public Policy
Executive Committee, 243
Gerding, Gail A., Resigned, 22
Gerrard, Sonja R., Assistant Professor of
Epidemiology, 226
Gessner, Lynn M., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
278
Gharpurey, Ranjit, Assistant Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, 57
Giacherio, Donald A., Clinical Associate
Professor of Pathology, 279
Gianchandani, Yogesh B., Additional
appointment as Associate Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, without tenure,
241
Giannobile, William V., William K. and Mary
Anne Najjar Professor, 94; Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure, 271; Additional
appointment as Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, without tenure,
276
Gibala, Ronald, Retired, 245; Retirement
memoir, 286
Gifford, Mary J., Childcare leave, 100


353




INDEX


Gikandi, Simon E., Term expired on the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Executive Committee, 312
Gillespie, Carolyn, Interim Chair of the
Department of Theatre and Dance at
UM-Flint, 95
Gillespie, John A., Chair of the Department of
Mathematics and Statistics at
UM-Dearborn, 276
Gilpin, Dawn, Lecturer in Architecture, 57
Ginsburg, David, James V. Neel Distinguished
University Professor of Internal Medicine
and Human Genetics, 15
Giordano, Thomas J., Associate Professor of
Pathology, with tenure, 53
Gira, Amy K., Lecturer in Dermatology, 18
Gitlin, Scott D., Clinical Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, 279
Gladwin, Thomas N., Max McGraw
Professorship in Sustainable Enterprise, 55
Gland, John L., Sabbatical leave, 62
Glick, Al, Noted for generous gifts for the J. Ira
and Nicki Harris Family Football Locker
Room, 139
Glick, Gary D., Werner E. Bachmann Collegiate
Professor of Chemistry, 311
Gluck, Peter R., Reappointed to active status,
134, 205
GMP Immunotherapeutics, Inc., License
agreement with approved, 80; Research
agreement with approved, 111
Gobetti, John P., Appointed to the School of
Dentistry Executive Committee, 312
Godek, Andrew J., Lecturer in Kinesiology, 204
Goel, Subhash C., Retirement furlough, 21
Gold, David, Assistant Professor of Rhetoric
and Composition at U-M Dearborn, 57
Goldberg, Alan D., Clinical Associate Professor
of Internal Medicine, 18
Goldberg, Deborah E., Recommended by
Provost Courant for appointment as chair of
the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology, 52; Chair of the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, 54
Goldberg, Jack L., Reappointed to active status,
314
Goldman, Daniel J., Sabbatical leave, 153
Goldman, Edward B., Associate Vice President
and Deputy General Counsel, 224;
Associate Vice President and Deputy
General Counsel, 226
Goldstein, Irwin J., Reappointed to active status,
152
Goldstein, Richard A., Resigned, 22


Gombosi, Tamas I., Chair of the Department of
Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences,
14
Gomez, Carlen A., Clinical Associate Professor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
279
Gomez, Luis O., duty off campus, 187
Goncharov, Yevgeny, Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 57
Gondhalekar, Vijay B., Resigned, 64
Gone, Joseph P., Scholarly activity leave, 64
Good, Eric D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 204
Goodenough, Elizabeth N., Research leave, 21
Goodison, Lorna G., Duty off campus, 153;
Received 2004 Henry Russel Award, 214
Goodman, Dena, Duty off campus leave, 100
Goodman, Leo, Recommendation for honorary
degree approved, 138
Goodrich-Weng, Linda D., Sabbatical leave, 21
Gordon, Charles F., Sabbatical leave, 100
Gordon, David, Associate Dean for Diversity
and Career Development in the Medical
School, 226
Gordon, Michael D., Reappointed Associate
Dean of the School of Business
Administration, 309
Gordon, Timothy J., Additional appointment as
Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
without tenure, 186
Gordon-Gurfinkel, Deborah M., Lecturer II in
Speech, 57
Gorman, Susan F., Lecturer I in Classical
Studies, 186
Gorodnik, Alexander, Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 132
Gosling, William A., University Librarian, 17;
Recommended by Provost Courant for
reappointment as University librarian, 52;
Reappointed University Librarian, 53
Goss, James, Reappointed to Clements Library
Associates Board of Governors, 55
Gottschalk, Katherine B., Reappointed Assistant
Dean for Financial Aid in the Law School,
202
Gough, Nancy E., Cancellation of appointment
as Associate Professor of the History of Art
with tenure, 24
Graff, David S., Term completed, 188
Graham, Malcolm D., Resigned, 188
Grant, Larry M., Appointed to the School of
Social Work Executive Committee, 203
Graves, Helen M., Reappointed to active status,
280


354




INDEX


Gravlee, Jocelyn R., Family medical leave, 134;
Term completed, 228
Gray, Robert H., Retirement furlough, 227
Graziano, Joseph N., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, 279
Grazier, Kyle L., Professor of Health
Management and Policy, with tenure, 53
Great Lakes Commission, Agreement with
approved, 169
Greden, John F., Resigned from the Medical
School Executive Committee, 17
Green, Daniel G., Reappointed to active status,
61; Reappointed to active status, 205
Green, Glenn E., Assistant Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, 132
Green, Liza B., Lecturer in Physical Medicine,
204
Green, Thomas A., Outside teaching leave, 21
Greenberg, Grant M., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Family Medicine, 279
Greenfield, Lazar J., Presented with Regents'
Resolution, 9; Sabbatical leave, 100
Gregerson, Linda K., Frederick G.L. Huetwell
Professor, 16
Grese, Robert E., Term expired on the School of
Natural Resources and Environment
Executive Committee, 17
Groenhout, Celia J., Lecturer in Anesthesiology,
243
Gross, Samuel R., Reappointed Thomas G. and
Mabel Long Professor of Law, 16
Groves, Robert W., Associate Vice President for
Development, 203
Gruber, Stephen B., Associate Professor of
Epidemiology, without tenure, 274;
Associate Professor of Human Genetics,
without tenure, 274; Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure, 274
Gruis, Kristen L., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Neurology, 18
Guan, Kun-liang, Halvor N. Christensen
Collegiate Professor in the Life Sciences,
150
Guerrieri, Mark J., Resigned, 281
Guindi, Susan Marie, Reappointed Assistant
Dean for Career Services in the Law
School, 202
Gumucio, Deborah L., Term expired on the
Medical School Executive Committee, 312
Gunning, Sandra R., Duty off campus, 153
Gurhan, Zeynep, Sabbatical leave, 62
Gurin, Patricia Y., Reappointed to active status,
61; Reappointed to active status, 99
Gutek, Barbara, Resigned, 64


Guthrie, Barbara J., Term expired on the School
of Nursing Executive Committee, 313
H
Haan, Mary N., Professor of Epidemiology, with
tenure, 275
Hadley, Scott W., Clinical Instructor in
Radiation Oncology, 151
Haefner, Hope K., Sabbatical leave, 21
Haftel, Hilary M., Clinical Associate Professor
in the Office of Educational Resources and
Research, 279; Clinical Associate Professor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
279
Hage, Gloria A., Interim Associate Vice
President and Chief Human Resource
Officer, 150; Recognized for her leadership
during her term as interim chief human
resources officer, 235
Hakansson, Ingrid K., Assistant Professor of
Chemistry, 96
Halberstam, Daniel, Professor of Law, with
tenure, 272
Hall, Karen E., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, 133
Hall, Richard L., Extended sick leave, 227
Halpert, Julie, Lecturer II in English and
Communication, 57
Halvor N. Christensen Collegiate Professorship
in the Life Sciences, Named, 131;
Kun-liang Guan appointed, 150
Hammer, Peter J., Resigned, 22
Hammoud, Maya M., Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, 60
Hancock, David J., Scholarly Activity Leave, 62
Hand, Linda L., Lecturer II in Psychology, 57
Hanlon, Michelle L., Assistant Professor of
Accounting, 133
Hanlon, Philip J., Associate Provost of
Academic and Budgetary Affairs, 242
Hanna, Gregory L., Sabbatical leave, 206
Hansen, Will, Professor of Civil Engineering,
with tenure, 271
Hanson, Charlotte Miettunen, Appointed to the
Distinguished Alumni Service Award
Selection Committee, 277
Hardin, Rebecca D., Assistant Professor of
Anthropology, 96; Assistant Professor of
Natural Resources, 96
Harlow, Siboban D., Professor of Epidemiology,
with tenure, 275
Harold W. and Helen L. Gehring Professorship
in Orthopaedic Surgery, James E. Carpenter
appointed, 94


355




INDEX


Harp, Nicholas A., Resigned, 23
Harper-Anderson, Elsie, Assistant Professor of
Architecture, 96
Harrell, Rachel D.L., Lecturer I in Slavic
Languages and Literatures, 96
Harrington, Helen L., Sabbatical leave, 21
Harter, Donald E., Resigned, 64
Hartman, John J., Lecturer II in Slavic
Languages and Literatures, 18
Hartmann, Joseph H., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Emergency Medicine, 279
Harvey C. Fruehauf Professorship in Business
Adminstration, Coimbatore K. Prahalad
reappointed, 16
Harwood, Rona B., Lecturer in Nursing, 132
Hawkins, Joseph E., Jr., Reappointed to active
status, 205
Hawley, Patrick J., Clinical Instructor in
Emergency Medicine, 18
Hawley, Robert C., Lecturer II in Near Eastern
Studies, 132
He, Zhong, Associate Professor of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences,
with tenure, 271
Health Insurance, Plan designs and new
premium structures discussed and approved,
164
HealthMedia, Inc., Purchasing contract with
approved, 107
Heaney, Deborah S., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Emergency Medicine, 279
Hecht, Gabrielle, Scholarly activity leave, 62
Heckenlively, John R., Paul R. Lichter Professor
of Ophthalmic Genetics, 130; Professor of
Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, with
tenure, 130
Hegyi, Dennis J., Retired, 281; Retirement
memoir, 287
Heidelbaugh, Joel J., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Family Medicine, 60
Heiman, Diana L., Resigned, 64
Heininger, Joseph C., Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 96; Term
completed, 208
Heinrichs, Kara A., Resigned, 102
Heirich, Jane R., Retired, 154; Retirement
memoir, 316
Heirich, Max A., Reappointed to active status,
61
Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professorship in
Honors, Robert J. Donia appointed, 150
Helen Newberry Residence Hall, Project to
replace slate roof approved and authorized
for issuing bids and awarding construction
contracts, 230


Helfand, Gloria, Interim Associate Dean of the
School of Natural Resources and
Environment, 203
Hell, Julia C., Scholarly activity leave, 100
Henley, Keith S., Reappointed to active status,
99
Henry and Mala Dorfman Family Professorship
in Pediatric Hematology/Oncology,
Established, 15; Laurence A. Boxer
appointed, 15
Henry Russel Award, Brian D. Conrad selected
for 2004, 214; Lorna G. Goodison selected
for 2004, 214; Todd M. Austin selected for
2004, 214
Henry, Carole S., Recommended to the Board
for appointment as director of University
Housing and Assistant Vice President for
Student Affairs, 235; Director of University
Housing and Assistant Vice President for
Student Affairs, 242
Herbert Sloan Collegiate Professorship in
Cardiac Surgery, Established, 131; G.
Michael Deeb appointed, 131
Herman, Tim, Reappointed to the UM-Flint
Channel 28 Community Advisory Board,
313
Herman, William H., Sabbatical leave, 227
Herold, Kirsten, Lecturer II in English
Language and Literature, 96
Herreo-Olaizola, Alejandro, Scholarly activity
leave, 206
Herrin, Gary D., Sabbatical leave, 62
Herseth, Freda A., Sabbatical leave, 62
Hess, David W., Assistant Professor of Business
Law, 18; Lecturer in Business Law, 18
Hesseltine & DeMason Design, Inc.,
Authorization for payment approved, 76
Hesseltine, Douglas H., Extended sick leave,
153, 244
Heth, Jason A., Assistant Professor of
Neurosurgery, 96
Heydon, Peter N., Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Hicken, Allen D., Scholarly activity leave, 206
Hickenbottom, Susan L., Clinical Associate
Professor of Neurology, 279
Hickey, Georgina, Associate Professor of
History, with tenure, at UM-Dearborn, 275
Higgins, Mary L., Lecturer in Nursing, 96
Hill Auditorium, Comments from President
Coleman and Regent Newman on its
reopening, 170
Hilles, Richard K., Lecturer II in English
Language and Literature, 96


356




INDEX


Hillman, Helena W., Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 57
Hilton, Robert L., Chair of the Army Officer
Education Program, 242
Himle, Joseph A., Assistant Professor of
Psychiatry, 98; Assistant Professor of
Social Work, 98
Hines, James R., Jr., Sabbatical leave, 227
Hinshaw, Ada Sue, Reappointment
recommended by Provost Courant, 224;
Term extended as Dean of the School of
Nursing, 226
Hirschfeld, Lawrence A., Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure, 272; Professor
of Psychology, with tenure, 272
Hirshbein, Pereta, Term completed, 188
Hiss, Roland G., Reappointed to active status,
61
Hittinger, Matthew D., Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 313
Hochster, Melvin, Reappointed Robert W. and
Lynn H. Browne Professor of Science, 16;
Jack E. McLaughlin Distinguished
University Professor of Mathematics, 132
Hoeffner, Ellen G., Personal leave, 187
Hoffman, Andrew J., Associate Professor of
Management and Organizations, without
tenure, 276; Associate Professor of Natural
Resources and Environment, with tenure,
276
Hoffnung-Garskof, Jesse E., Scholarly activity
leave, 206
Hofweber, Thomas, Resigned, 23
Hogaboam, Cory M., Associate Professor of
Pathology, with tenure, 274
Holbrook, Latisha L., Term completed, 154
Holden, Craig A., Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 96
Holl, Augustin F. C., Duty off campus, 206
Holland, Paul M., Resigned, 315
Hollingsworth, Leslie D., Sabbatical leave, 21
Holmes, Megan L., Associate Professor of
History of Art, with tenure, 273
Holoshitz, Joseph, Sabbatical leave, 21
Holschen Jolie C., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Emergency Medicine, 313
Holther, Jean R., Term completed, 188
Hong, Kaleford, Lecturer in Radiology, 18
Hong, Ming, Correction in appointment from
Clinical Lecturer to Lecturer in Neurology,
60
Hong, Seong B., Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure, at UM-Dearborn,
275


Honorary Degrees, Ann Lurie approved, 138;
Leo Goodman approved, 138; Thomas J.
Miller approved, 138; Daniel Aaron
approved, 229; David E. Davis, Jr.,
approved, 229; Helmut F. Stern approved,
229; Julius Chambers approved, 229; Karen
Uhlenbeck approved, 229; William Joy
approved, 229
Hook, Keith B., Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Hooper, Cameron G., Assistant Professor of
Accounting, 98
Hopson, Laura R., Childcare leave, 227
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Executive Board, Appointments made, 312
Horja, Richard P., Term Completed, 315
Hornyak, Joseph E., Assistant Professor of
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, 98
Horton, Marjorie S., Reappointed Assistant
Dean for Undergraduate Education, 309
Horwitz, Jill R., Assistant Professor of Law, 18
Hosford, William F., Jr., Retirement furlough,
62
Houghtelling, Sara W., Lecturer I in English
Language and Literature, 57
House, Gloria, Associate Professor of African
and African American Studies and
Humanities, without tenure, at
UM-Dearborn, 225
House, James S., Term expired on the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Executive Committee, 312
Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professorship in
Journalism, Lawrence Pintak appointed, 55
Howard, June M., Associate Dean for
Interdisciplinary Initiatives, Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, 14;
Reappointed Associate Dean for
Interdisciplinary Initiatives, 309
Howard, Matthew O., Professor of Social Work,
with tenure, 225
Hsiao, Samuel K., Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 58
Hsu, Chen-Hsing, Reappointed to active status,
61
Hsu, Frank K.Y., Resigned, 23
Hua, Ya, Research Assistant Professor of
Neurosurgery, 279
Huayhua, Margarita, Term completed, 102
Hubbs, Nadine M., Associate Professor of
Music (Music Theory), with tenure, 273;
Associate Professor of Women's Studies,
with tenure, 273
Hughes, Bret A., Professor of Molecular and
Integrative Physiology, without tenure, 274;


357




INDEX


Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual
Sciences, with tenure, 274
Hughes, Richard E., Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, without tenure,
274; Associate Professor of Orthopaedic
Surgery, without tenure, 274
Hull, Brooks B., Sabbatical leave, 206
Hultgren, Jody N., Lecturer in Kinesiology, 204
Hume, Richard I., Chair of the Department of
Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental
Biology, 14
Hunt, Alan J., Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, 271
Hurtado, Sylvia, Resigned, 208
Hutton, Elizabeth B., Additional appointment as
Lecturer II in English Language and
Literature, 205
Hyland, David C., Resigned, 64
I
lannettoni, Mark D., Resigned, 135
Ibbett, Katherine M., Assistant Professor of
Romance Languages and Literatures, 96
Ignelzi, Michael A., Jr., Sabbatical leave, 153
Imperiale, Michael J., Appointed to the Medical
School Executive Committee, 312
Inadomi, John M., Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure, 274
Inampudi, Prasuna, Lecturer in Radiology, 18
Information Technology, Summary of report on
IT security presented to Finance, Audit and
Investment Committee by IT security staff,
87
Inhorn, Marcia C., Professor of Health Behavior
and Health Education, with tenure, 275;
Additional appointment as Associate
Professor of Women's Studies, without
tenure, 310
Innovative Biotherapies, Inc., Option agreement
with approved, 164
Inohara, Naohiro, Research Associate Professor
of Pathology, 279
Institute for Social Research Executive
Committee, Appointments made, 277, 313
Instrumentation Associates, Inc., Subcontract
agreement with approved, 78
Integrated Design Solutions, Commissioned to
design Pharmacy College Building lab
remodel, 230
Intellectual Property, Revision of intellectual
property revenue distribution policy
approved, 296; Text of revised revenue
distribution policy: "Distribution of


Revenues from Royalties or Sale of Equity
Interest," 297
Intercollegiate Athletics, Panel discussion with
president of the NCAA and commissioner
of the Big Ten Conference, 299
Interim Appointments, President or Provost
authorized to make interim appointments as
necessary during August 2003, 17
Internal Audit, Update of report presented to
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee
by University Audits, 88
Intralase Corporation, Purchasing contract with
approved, 122; Maintenance agreement
with approved, 320
Intramural Sports Building, Second and third
floor fitness area project approved and
authorized for issuing bids and awarding
contracts, 190
Investments, 2003-2004, Alternative asset
commitment with Highcross Regional U.K.
Partners L.P. approved, 28; Private equity
investment with Charterhouse Capital
Partners VII, L.P. approved, 28; Private
equity investment with M.D. Sass Financial
Strategies, L.P. approved, 28; Alternative
asset commitment with CT Mezzanine
Partners III, L.P. approved, 73; Alternative
asset commitment with Greenfield
Acquisition Partners III, L.P. approved, 73;
Alternative asset commitment with
Rockwood Capital Real Estate Partners
Fund V, L.P. approved, 73; Alternative
asset committment with Bennett
Restructuring Fund approved, 73; Approval
to modify mandate for fixed income
account managed by Bridgewater Asset
Management, 73; Private equity investment
with Permira Europe III approved, 74;
Summary of annual report of investments
presented to Finance, Audit and Investment
Committee, 87; Alternative asset
commitments with Carmel Partners
Investment Fund, L.P. approved, 104;
Distressed debt investments with Varde
Fund VII, L.P. approved, 104; Private
equity investment with Close Brothers
Private Equity Fund VII, L.P. approved,
104; Private equity investment with TPG
Partners IV, L.P. approved, 104; Regents
received annual report of investments as of
June 30, 2003, 104; Alternative asset
commitment with Chengwei Ventures I,
L.P. approved, 138; Alternative asset
commitment with Lubert-Adler Real Estate
IV, L.P. approved, 138; Venture capital


358




INDEX


investment with NQV Partners, L.P.
approved, 169; Alternative asset
commitment with Beacon Capital Strategic
Partners III, L.P., 189; Absolute return
investment with Prospect Harbor Credit
partners approved, 209; Alternative asset
commitment with Corn Ventures VI, L.P
approved, 209; Alternative asset
commitment with Liquid Realty Partners II,
LLC approved, 209; Alternative asset
commitment with Silver Lake Partners II,
L.P. approved, 209; Alternative asset
commitment with SRI Seven REIT
approved, 209; Alternative asset
commitment with TCV V, L.P. approved,
209; Change in mandate for Capital
Guardian Trust equity investment manager
approved, 209; Alternative asset
commitment with Garnett & Helfrich
Capital L.P. approved, 230; Alternative
asset commitment with Highcross Regional
U.K. Partners L.P. approved, 230; Absolute
return investment with Kayne Anderson
Capital Investment Partners approved, 247;
Blakeney Management Limited approved as
an emerging markets equities manager, 247;
Alternative asset commitment with DCM
IV L.P. approved, 294; Alternative asset
commitment with Emergence Capital
Partners, L.P. approved, 294; Alternative
asset commitment with Europa Fund II,
L.P., approved, 294; Alternative asset
commitment with HEI Hospitality Fund,
L.P., approved, 294; Alternative asset
commitment with EQT IV, L.P., approved,
324; Alternative asset commitment with
TPG Biotechnology Partners, L.P.,
approved, 324
lott, John W., Scholarly activity leave, 206
Irwin, James R., Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Isadore and Leon Winkleman Professorship in
Retail Marketing, Aradhna Krishna
appointed, 132
Ismail, Amid I., Professor of Epidemiology,
without tenure, 310
Ismail, Marika Z., Lecturer II in English
Language and Literature, 96
Israel, Barbara A., Sabbatical leave, 134
Israel, Kali A.K., Richard Hudson Research
Professor of History, 132; Duty off campus,
187
Israel, Shirley, Lecturer in Foreign Languages
and UM-Flint, 151
Itani, Abdul, Term completed, 135


J
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Family Football Locker
Room, Named, 139
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Family Professorship in
Public Policy, James A. Levinsohn
appointed, 16
Jack D. Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research
Professorship in Business Administration,
Gerald F. Davis appointed, 15
Jack E. McLaughlin Distinguished University
Professorship in Mathematics, Melvin
Hochster appointed, 132
Jackson, James S., Reappointed Director of the
Center for Afroamerican and African
Studies, 309
Jackson, John E., Sabbatical leave, 21
Jackson, Lisa R., Lecturer I in Psychology, 226
Jackson, Sherman A., Professor of Near Eastern
Studies, with tenure, 273
Jackson, Trachette L., Duty off campus, 153
Jacobs, Lloyd A., Retirement memoir, 137;
Retired, 154
Jacobsen, Carol S., Sabbatical leave, 100
Jacobson, Jon A., Associate Professor of
Radiology, with tenure, 309
Jacobson, Peter D., Sabbatical leave, 227;
Professor of Health Management and
Policy, with tenure, 275
Jaffe, Craig A., Clinical Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, 60
Jagadish, Hosagrahar V., Sabbatical leave, 314
Jain, Kusum, Term completed, 188
Jain, Rajan, Term completed, 65
James and Ann Duderstadt Center, Comments
from President Coleman on the center's
naming, 115; Named, 115; Comments from
Regent White on the center's naming, 116;
Coments from President Emeritus
Duderstadt on the center's naming, 117
James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professorship in
Philosophy, Edwin M. Curley reappointed,
311
James R. Mellor Professorship in Engineering,
Pallab K. Bhattacharya reappointed, 242
James V. Neel Distinguished University
Professor of Internal Medicine and Human
Genetics, David Ginsburg appointed, 15
James, Sherman A., Resigned, 23; Resigned
from the Committee on Honorary Degrees,
56
Janke, Ellen L., Clinical Assistant Professor of
Anesthesiology, 151
Janz, Nancy K., Reappointed Interim Co-Chair
of the Department of Health Behavior and


359




INDEX


Health Education in the School of Public
Health, 241
Javidan-Nejad, Javid, Term completed, 102
Jayaratne, Srinika D., Associate Dean of Faculty
Affairs in the School of Social Work, 132
Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in
Rabbinic Literature, Yaron A. Eliav
reappointed, 94
Jenkins, Janice M., Reappointed to active status,
20
Jenkins, Kristi R., Lecturer II in Sociology, 58
Jennings, Jeffrey, Clinical Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 58
Jennings, William P., Resigned, 65
Jensen, Viviane C., Family medical leave, 206
Jerome and Isabella Karle Collegiate
Professorship in Chemistry, Named, 54;
Carol A. Fierke appointed, 94
Jerome B. and Eilene M. York Professorship in
Business Administration, Hasan Nejat
Seyhun reappointed, 16
Jeyabalan, Santhadevi, Senior Lecturer in
Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental
Biology, 98
Ji, Baoan, Research Assistant Professor of
Molecular and Integrative Physiology, 279
Joan and Sanford Weill Hall, Approved as name
of building to house Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy, 209
John C. and Sally S. Morley Professorship in
Finance, Gautam Kaul appointed, 16
John Dewey Professorship in Education, David
K. Cohen reappointed, 16
John Gideon Searle Assistant Professorship in
Medicinal Chemistry, Heather A. Carlson
reappointed, 55
John P. Kirscht Professorship in Public Health,
Renamed Thomas Francis Collegiate
Professorship in Public Health, 15
Johnsen, Jill, Clinical Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, 58
Johnson, Eileen S., Resigned, 188
Johnson, Michael D., Reappointed D. Maynard
Phelps Collegiate Professor of Business
Administration, 16
Johnson, Richard A., Retirement furlough, 153
Jones, Darryl V., Term Completed, 315
Jones, J. Wayne, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor,
203
Jones, Joni L., Resigned, 65
Jones, Martha S., Duty off campus leave, 100;
Leave extended, 310
Jourdain, George W., Reappointed to active
status, 152


Joy, William, Recommendation to award
honorary degree approved, 229
Joyce, James M., Additional appointment as
Associate Professor of Statistics, without
tenure, 131
Julian A. Wolfson and Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds, Uses of income from
Wolfson Endowment Funds approved for
FY 2004-05, 325
Jung, Joachim, Lecturer in Germanic Languages
and Literatures, 132
Jung, Joachim, Term Completed, 315
K
Kachhal, Swatantra K., Chair of the Department
of Industrial Manufacturing Systems
Engineering at UM-Dearborn, 14
Kaferle, Joyce E., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Family Medicine, 279
Kahn, Margaret F., David M. French Professor
at U-M Flint, 55
Kahriman, Mustafa, Term completed, 23
Kalasinski, Michael R., Assistant Dean for
Finance and Administration in the School
of Public Health, 312
Kales, Theresa A., Lecturer II in Linguistics, 58;
Resigned, 208
Kalisch, Beatrice J., Sabbatical leave, 187
Kalmar, Pamela J., Resigned, 154
Kamat, Vineet R., Assistant Professor of Civil
and Environmental Engineering, 18
Kamisar, Yale, Retired, 245; Retirement
memoir, 317
Kammash, Terry, Reappointed to active status,
20, 61,205, 314
Kamrani, Ali K., Resigned, 102
Kandala, Srinivasacharay, Lecturer I in Asian
Languages and Cultures, 132
Kane, Gordon L., Additional appointment as
Professor of Art, without tenure, 225
Kang, Hong Tae, Assistant Professor of
Mechanical Engineering at UM-Dearborn,
96
Kang, Hyunsuk, Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, 58
Kang, Sewon, Professor of Dermatology, with
tenure, 274
Kanjirath, Preetha P., Clinical Assistant
Professor of Dentistry, 60
Kannatey-Asibu, Elijah, Jr., Sabbatical leave,
244
Kapila, Sunil D., Professor of Dentistry, with
tenure, 309; Robert W. Browne Professor of
Dentistry in Orthodontics, 311


360




INDEX


Kaplan, George A., Thomas Francis Collegiate
Professor of Public Health, 15
Kaplan, Rachel, Sabbatical leave, 62; Appointed
to the School of Natural Resources and the
Environment Executive Committee, 313
Kaplan, Stephen, Sabbatical leave, 21
Kapuscinski, Roman, Associate Professor of
Operations and Management Science, with
tenure, 271
Karam, Lina B., Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 151
Karl W. Deutsch Collegiate Professorship in
Comparative Politics and German Studies,
Andrei S. Markovits appointed, 15
Karnopp, Bruce H., Retired, 281; Retirement
memoir, 288
Kartha, Ninith V., Clinical Assistant Professor
of Neurology, 19
Kasimir Fajans Professorship in Chemistry,
Physics, and Applied Physics, Renamed the
Kasimir Fajans Collegiate Professorship in
Chemistry, Physics, and Applied Physics,
311
Kasischke, Laura K., Lecturer III in English
Language and Literature, 132; Lecturer III
in Residential College, 132
Kasten, Steven J., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery,
58
Katagiri, Yoko, Lecturer II in Asian Languages
and Cultures, 96
Kathleen Gough Collegiate Professorship in
Anthropology, Named, 54; Gillian
Feeley-Harnik appointed, 94
Katz, Ellen D., Professor of Law, with tenure,
272
Kaufman, Martin, Chair of the Department of
Earth and Resource Science at UM-Flint, 14
Kaufman, Randal J., Additional appointment as
Professor of Internal Medicine, without
tenure, 241
Kaul, Gautam, Reappointed John C. and Sally S.
Morley Professor of Finance, 16; Sabbatical
leave, 100
Kaviany, Massoud, Sabbatical leave, 244
Kazerooni, Ella A., Extended sick leave, 153
Keane, E. Webb Jr., Scholarly activity leave, 21
Keeler, Gerald J., Sabbatical leave, 100;
Professor of Geological Sciences, without
tenure, 273
Keep, Richard F., Professor of Molecular and
Integrative Physiology, without tenure, 274;
Additional appointment as Professor of
Neurosurgery, with tenure, 276
Kees, Michelle R., Lecturer in Psychiatry, 96


Kelch, Robert, Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, 13
Keller, Evan T., Additional appointment as
Associate Professor of Urology, with
tenure, 225
Kelley, Kendrick M., Lecturer II in Sweetland
Writing Center, 58
Kelley, Mary C., Appointed to the Michigan
Historical Collections Executive
Committee, 132; Transfer of tenure from
Women's Studies Program to the Program
in American Culture, 312
Kelly, Raymond C., Retirement furlough, 244;
Retired, 245; Retirement memoir, 288
Kennedy, Richard L., Comments from President
Coleman on his death, 171
Kennedy, Robert E., Clinical Professor of
Business Economics, 18
Kennedy, Sally, Reappointed to Clements
Library Associates Board of Governors, 55
Kent, Claudia M., Resigned, 65
Kenyon, George L., Tom D. Row Collegiate
Professor of Pharmacy, 55
Keoleian, Gregory A., From Associate Professor
of Natural Resources, with tenure, to
Associate Professor of Sustainable Systems,
with tenure, 55
KeraCure, LLC, Research agreement with
approved, 122; Amendment to license
agreement approved, 296
Kerr, Eve M., Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure, 274
Kerr, Philip, Reappointed the Claribel Baird
Halstead Professor, 242
Kerschbaum, Wendy E., Appointed to the
School of Dentistry Executive Committee,
312
Ketefian, Shake, Sabbatical leave, 187
Keyes, P. Landis, Retirement furlough, 280
Khan, Amina I., Lecturer in Surgery, 58
Khan, Mohamed K., Resigned, 281
Khan, Shawn J., Lecturer in Ophthalmology and
Visual Sciences, 96
Khanna, Vikramaditya S., Professor of Law,
with tenure, 309
Kieffer, Edith C., Research Associate Professor
of Social Woark, 279
Kikuchi, Noboru, Roger L. McCarthy Professor
of Mechanical Engineering, 203
Killeen, Mary B., Term Completed, 315
Killough, Kevin, Lecturer in Radiology, 18;
Resigned, 208
Kim, Catherine, Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, 133; Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, 133


361



