
NOVEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY 0O i\I[ICI-IIGAN, I
ANN ARBOR, November 18, p1910.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io o'clock A. M,
Present, Regent Grant, Regent Codd, Regent Clements.
Rego ent Sawyer, Regent Beal, Regent Leland. Absent, Regent Knappenl Regent Osborn and Superintendent of Public
Instruction Wright.
The minutes of the lmeeting of October 7 were approved
for printing as submitted in proof to the members.
The President, having been requested to reconstitute the
committee toi consider the question. of thle degree to which
meumbers oif the faculties might engage in outside proflessional wolrk (see page 683), named the following':-Regent
Grant, Regent Clements and Regent Codd, to, consider and
report upon this question.
On motion of Regent Codd, the matter of the fee proposed to be charged to all University women for the use of
Palmer Field (see page 694) was referred to the Committee
on Buildings and Grounds for report.
Regent Sawyer reported that under the authority given
him by the Bo'ard, he had, while on a recent visit to the
Pacific coast, employed a timber estimating' firm tol cruise the
so-called Hunlt lands, standing in the name of the University.
The report olf the estinm!ators, Messrs. VTan Orsdel &:Buol, of Portland, Oregon, was received and placed on file.
On motion,of Regent SawyAer, the Board voted that the
l)ill of 'Van Orsdel & Btuol for estimating' the above men'tioned lands, amounting' to' $297.2:5, should be paid, if found
in proper form, out of the General Fund, this payment to be
ultimately reiimbursed to, the General Fund from the proceeds o-f the sale of thlese lands.
On 1motion of Regent Clements, the Board referred the
question 'of an advance to' Mrs. Margaret Hunt, secured by




2


2  O1OVEJiBER LilJEE'TING, 1910.


MTrs. H-Int's equity in these lands, and the further question
of a possible sale of the lands under the terms of the trust
deeds, to a, commlittee collmplosed of Regent Sa7wyer and
Regent Beal and the President, with power tlo make sale or
advance or alny settlement that might be deenme:d best.
Regent Clements reported that all matters referred to
him with regard to the Memorial Building- furnishin g had
been investigated  and such furniture   authorized as was
believed necessary.
(n motion of Regent Grant, the Boarrd passed the follow7ing resolution:Rcsolvcd, That on the recomlnmendation of Dean Cooley,
Mr. Walter T. Fishleigh hle promoted to be Assistant Professor of Stereotomy and Drawiing at the salary of $I,6oo.
per year and be given leave of absence during the University year I9IO.109I without salary.
On motion of Regent Codd, the Board authorized aln
allowance to the Mledical Faculty Colmmittee on the preservation1 of the Old M\edical Build'ing of not to exceed $ oo. for
the expenses of circularizing in an, endeavor to) secure funls
for their purposes.
On motion olf Regent Grant, the Buildings and Grounds
Committee was authorized to place new, accommodations in
the toilet room of the Law Building at not to exceed the
estimated cost of $1,614.
On nmotion1 of Regent Grant, a special commlunication
from: the Dean of the Deplartment of Engineering relative
to. a change in, the appointment of Conrad Lucas was voted
to be emergency business, to, be takeni up at this meeting',
and was placed at the foot of the program.
On1 motion of Regent Leland, after consideration of the
repeated request of certainl members of the University uTrging
the appointment of an Assistant Professor of the Fine Arts,
the Board passed the follow ing resolution:Rcsolrcd, That whilst the Board fully r ecognizes the
desirability of appointing an Assistant Professor of the Fine
Arts who wLould, assist particularly in. the development of
lire University on, the side of culture and art, the financial
situation of the University does not ptermit undertaking this
expense at the present time.




ANOVEl IfBER     JIE 1ETI.TG, 1910.              3
The President preslelnted the following      report of the
Executive Comlmittee, which, on motiton olf Regent Grant,
was approved and the actions taken by the Committee were
confirmed:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:The Executive Committee begs leave to report as follows in regard to matters passedl upon by the Committee
since the last meeting of the Board:I. On the recommendation of Professor Lorch, approved by Dean Cooley, the following were appointed to
the Architectural Scholarships authorized by this Board at
its last meeting. Each of these scholarships has a' value
of $55.
Don M. Cottrell of Detroit, MNichigan.
James H. Meier o-f Ann Arbor, Miichigan.
2. On, the recomlmendation of Acting Dean Hoff of the
College of Deiiltal Surgery, th,e following action was taken
by your Committee:a. Dr. Guy W. Fitzgerrell was', appointied Diemonstrator of Clinical Dentistry for the present session,
in place of Dr. R. O. Calkins, formerly appointed
by the Board, who declined the position, the salary
of Dr. Fitzgerriell to; bie $275., the same as that provided for Dr. Calkins, and to date from October I.
b. Dr. Albert E. 'Wilson. was appointed Demonstrator
of Dental Technics for the present year, at a salary
of $200., and' the salary of Dr. H. I-. Harper, who
had belen appointed by this Board nlion;-resident lecturer in Dental M.at!eria Medica at a salary of $300.,
was changed to $roo., inasmuch as Dr. Harper
fo'und that he could not give the,required time for
all of the work. It will be observed that this action
of your Comnmittieie makes no, chlange in the budget.
c. Aaron M. Aronian, a student in the senior class of
the Dental Department, was appointed attendant, in
the Denrtal Library during the evening periods, at
a salary of $55. per year. This assistant was, providled for in thie budget.
d. The sum of $337. of the $470., the amlount of the
library fees in the College of Dental Surgery for
thle current year, was, by your Committee, authorized to be 'expended in placing the Dental Library
upon a workable basis and in providing an attend



4


A NOTVELiBER ilIEE1TIAG', 1910.


ant during the morning hours from 10o to 12, and
the Committee directed that the balance of the $470.
might be.expended in the purchase of duplicate and
scientific books, for which the regular library fund
is not available. Your Committee directed that the
$337. should be expended as follows:$250. as the salary o,f Dr. J. A. Horovitz, a professional bibliographer who is here doing
work in the Gradluate School of the Arts
Department, who is to give two hours
each day to the Dental Library.
$87. to Edward 3. Douglas, a dental student
who is to serve as an assistant in clerical
work to Dr. Horovitz, during the first
semester.
3. On recomm endlation of Dean Cooley, Mr. George
1veline Lewis was appointed Instructor in Descriptive
Geometry and Drawing at a salary of $I,Ioo. This appointment was made for the,reason that Mr. K. B. Millett, whom
it was expected would take the place of IMr. Fishleigh,
declined to accept the position!.
All of which is respectfully subbmittled.
Executive Committee of the Board of Regents,
H. B. HU'TCHINS,
TWAT/T^'R H. SAWYPJR,
JUNIUS E. BiAL.
Regent Leland reported in the matter of the so-called
Cook-Hannan note and presented to, the Board an assumption o'f the Cook-Hannan, mortgage by MrI. WV. V. HIaannal.
This document having beent read by the Secretary, it was
accepted and left with the Secretary to be delivered to the
Treasurer.
'Dean Reed and Dean Vaughan presented the Senate
Council's report oln the subject of athletics as requested by
the Regents at the meeting of June 8 (see page 725).
Regent Leland offered the followring resolution:Resolved, That the President appoint a committee of
three to, confer with a committee from the Senate Council
to determine, if possible, a basis upon which all interested
in the constitution of the proposedi new Board in1 Control
of Athletics can agree.




N\O TEMBER MlEETING, 191o0.


5


This resolution was seconded by Regent Sawyer, and
was passed.
The President thereupon appointed Regent Codd, Regent
Sawyer and Regent Beal as the committee of the Board of
Regents.
The Board thereupon took a recess till 2 o'clock.
AFTERNOON SESSION
Upon reassenmbling, the samle members were in attendance as at the morning session.
'Upon moltion lof Regenlt Clements, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That $I50,000. of the Arthur Hill bequest
shall be left with the Detroit Trust Co. of Detroit, and if
the Bank of Saginaw doles not desire more than the $20,00o.
now on deposit in such bank, such unidesired balanlce above
$20,000. shall be placed in the Detroit Trust Co. of Detroit,
thus making a possible deposit in the Detroit Trust Co. of
not over $S8o,ooo. of such fund.
Regent Leland presented the following       report in the
matter of investment *of trust funds, wlhich report. was accepted by the Bo!aird, on, mottion of Regent Sawyer:To the Board of Regents:
Getletzmeln:-I havTe given much thought to the investmnent of the trust funds of the University, and already have
taken up the matter with thbe Board on several occasions.
I-laving been asked, however, to make a special report on
the propositionl of Baird & Cochran, of Kansas City, to loan
all or a part of the University trust fund:s on mortgages on
farms located in. Kansas, I am pleased to report, after a
very careful examination of the method of doing business
of this firm, the references furnished by them, the responisibility of the firm andl the bond they offer to give guaranteeing the payment of all loans placed by them for the University, and also taking into consideration the valu!e of the land
on which their loans are placed, that in my judgmient University trust funds loaned in the mannler proposied by Blaird &
Cochran, with the privilege to the University of having a




6


NOV VIMBER MEETING, 9I1o.


personal inspection of,every loan made and any andl all
securities, not coming strictly tip to thle requirements of the
Board to be taken over by Baird & Cochran land the amounts
of any such loans returned to the University within a year
from the placing of any of such. loians, would be a satisfactory investment of University trust funds.
I wish also to state that in my opinion these trust funds
can safely be loan!ed on Michigan real estate so as to net
5% per annum to the University.
Investing.these trust funds in mortgagees, however,
requires a constant supervision of the mortgages rwhich
originlally would be placed for a period of five years, anid I
again repeat what several timles before I have stated to the
Board that in my judgment, all things being considered, the
best investment of the University trust funds would be in
long time municipal or other public bondsl, provided such
bonds can be obtained upon a basis of 4I2G% or upwards. So
long as the stability of cities or towns giving suchl bonds is
well established, the- legality of the bonds properly certified
to by competent authority, and the bondced inldiebtednesis of
the community giving the bonds does not lexceed 3%  of
assessed value, I see no particular reason why the bonds of
municipalities in one State should be preferred over those
of another.                      FRANK B. LELAND.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, 'the Board adopted the
followving resolution:Resolved, 'That a portion: not to exceed $30,000. of the
uninvested trust funds of the Univlersity, now am!ounting
to about $70,000., shall be invested in mortgages under the
offer of Messrs. Baird & Colchran, providing that Regent
Leland shall inspect and approve such investments, the expenses of his trip for such inispection to bhe paid by Messrs.
Baird & Cochran.
On motion o'f Regent Clements, the' Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Chairman o'f the Finance Committee le requested to furnish the Regents with a list of
approved municipal and other securities, for the investment
of the balanoe of the University trust funds.
On, motion of Regent Sawyer, Regent Leland was appointed as a. committee from the R'%egents tol audit and initial




NO VEMI BER MJVEETING, 1910.                  7
the University vouchers for September, October, November
and Dlecembler.
Regent Leland presented a      communication from     the
Treasurer olf the Unaiversity, Gelorge S. Baker, suggesting
the desirability of an independent audit by a competent
accountant each year of tlhe books of the Treasurer's office,
the examination to, include the laboratories and hospitals
which receive funds from 'original sources and turn such
receipts into the Treasurer's office.
The Secretary of the Board suggested that he should be
glad to h:ave such an audit include his!office, althoiugh no
funds are handled there.
On motion. of Regent Codd, the Board authorized the
Finance Committee to comply with the suggestion, of the
Treasurer of the University andl provide a separate audit
of *the 1books of the University offices.
Regent Leland presented the following communication
from  the Treasurer of the University, addressed to the
Finance Committee.    This communication was. accepted by
the Board' to go into the records:November 17, I9To.
To the Finance Committee of th;e Regents:
Gcntlcemen1:-I desire to direct your attention to the
fact that I am required by the State to make the folloNwing
affidavit:
"State of Michigan, 1
County of.............................. being duly sworn, says that he is
the Treasurer of the Uniiversity of Michig'an, andc that the
within abstract, and the accompanying receipts therein referred to, are a true and correct statement of all moneys
applicablle to current expenses received at said Institution
by any officer or person connected therewith during,the
month made, excepting these amounts, to $.......... which
were received from the State Treasury and' were.applicabl.e,
within the meaning of the statute, to the former appropriation year."
I am not at liberty to make any amendment to that affidavit, but it does nlot represent entirlely or correctly the
situation of affairs in. my office, nor does it cover all the
moneys that I receive and handle as Treasurer for the
period coveredl by its terms. It may be that this affidavit




8


NOVElMBER MEETING, 119o.


is not intended.to apply to any funds, received or handled
by the Treasurer other than those received from the State
and applicable to current iexpense, but in. my judgment the
construction,of that affidavit is involv:ed in some doubt and
I desire it to be understood by the Regents that the amount
of mon-ey covered and.reported by the affidavit does not
represent the.entire amount whichl comes into my hands as
Treasurer. I desire this matter to be fully understood by the
Regents so that the Regents may take whatever action, in
the premises, may be necessary to, protect me from   any
misunderstanding or misconstruction should matters involved in the statement I have made, hereafter be the subject of inquiry, investigation or construction.
Respectfully submitted,
GOo. S. BAKIER,
Treasurer.
NoTr,:  Copy of the Accounting Law for moneys by
receiving and disbursing offices.
"Section J205, Compiled Laws of I897:
Section i. Thle People of the State of Michigan enact,
That every officer receiving or disbursing money for the
State, for or on account of any building or work for the
State, or for the maintenance, use or benefit of any State
ed!ucational, charitable, reformatory, or penal or other in:stitution, or under any act of appropriation or other law of
this State, for any purpose whatsoever, shall render to the
Auditor General anm account of all receipts, whether from
the State Treasulrer, or other source or sources; and all disbursem.ents shall be accounted for in the manner hereinafter
provided."
Regent Clements presented the following report on the
question of the site for the new power plant:The Honorable Board of Regents,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Micl.
Geltlchmene:-The question of furnishing  steam  and
power to the various buildings belonging to the Univiersity,
located upon the 'Campus and adjacent thereto, in a northeasterly direction, has received very, careful consideration
from the Chairman; of the Buildings and' Grounds Comnni.ittee, to whom the matter was referred.




NOVE 0 IlltBER MJEETING, 1910.
Various sites have been considered, but these are now
reduced to three, as follows:I. The present site, located in a southeasterly part of
the Campus.
The objections to this location are fits inaccessibility to
railroad connections, a necessity in any powier plant of any
considerable size, if economy in operation is considered, the
contracted space the plant would necessarily occupy with
any extensions! and the amount of smoke, dirt, etc., to which
the other buildings in close proximity are now and would
be subjected.
2. The location known as the "Cat-hole" site, approximately midway between the University Hospital and the
Homcoeopathic Hospital.
This location has many advantages, amlong them being
its proposed location, in the valley, allowin.g a proper drainage for condensed stieam back to the plant; its centlral location, allowing, if desired, the use of exhaust steam for heating for the surrounding buildings. At the same time this
location, with not an *excessive loss of heat, will plermit of,the transmisslioni of high pressure steam for heating service
to the most remote parts of the Camppus.
This location nmay be connected by railroad tracks with
the main lin,e of the Michigan Central R. R., by the construction of approximately one mile of track. In making
such connections, howlever, the 'right-of-way must be secured. This righit-of-way to be securetl  would start at the
proposed site and could ble in front or in the rear of the
property lots upon the east side of Glenn Ave. and would
extend to the property now owned by the Univnersity and
occupied by the University Hospitals, thence circling east
through the property north of the University, owned by the
University, thlence least throughl property owned by the
Michigan Centtral R. R. and other parties and connecting
there with the main line. The construction of this railroad
connection from the "Cat-hole" site to the property owned
by the University may 'be as above stated, in the rear of
property abutting Glenn, Ave., or, if the right-of-way can be
secured, through Glenn Ave. iltself, but in either case it will
be necessary to purchase outright three lots with housees
upon them and either purchase the rear of all 'of the lots
on Glenn Ave., or, if passing through Glenn Ave., pay the
abuttal damages on both sides of the 'street. It will also be
necessary to purchase additional property to that now owned


9




IO


INOVEMIBER lMlEET'ING, 9o10.


by thile University at the "Cat-hole" site, as well as construct
a viadutt over the valley leading north from it. A track
so constructed to this site would have a grade of from three
~to four per cent. inl making the ascent from the main line
of the Mlichigan Central R. R. to the University Hospital
site. Unless the method of transferring cars from the main
line of the Michigan Central R. R. was thfrough ithe use of
an electric locomotive, the nuisance and noisle of operation
through a steam locomotive would be obvious and -the damage to the surrounding property, including the Hospital,
would be considerable.
Only ani approximate estimate of ithle cost of connecting
the "Cat-hole" site with thle main line of thee Michigan
Central as above indicated can be madce at this time, but
it is believed that withl its viaduct connection to the plant,
the expense of purchasing the right-of-way back of Glen'n
Ave. or paying abuttal damages through Glenn Ave., if the
tracks were-located in the street and the construction of the
track through the University Hospital properties, thence to
the Michigan Central, together with the expense of 'an electric locomotive, which may ble deemed absolutely necessary
for operation, would approximate from $8o,ooo. to $Ioo,ooo.
for track 'service only.
This "Cat-hole" site, it must be understood, is wAell
located for the construction of the necessary buildingos and
thle equipment of ia modern powNer plan[t to serve the University in all rlespects.
3. The third site considered is the one directly north
of the University Hospitals and in close proximity to the
present steam plant of the Hospital.
This location has the disadvantage of being located
from one-quarter to three-eighths of a mile further away
from the extreme southerly limits of the University Campus,than thel "Cat-hole" site. This disadvantage, as far as concerns location of plant, is the only onie yet discovered. The
railroad connections for the receipt and distribution of coal
could be easily made, and withl very little cost, vwith the mlain
line of thle Michigan Cenitral R. R., over property now owned
by the University, the MAichigan Central and- other parties
and not now occupied excepting as pasturlage.  The total
length of 'this connection, would not exceed one-half mile.
This plant site is now owned by the University and a
plant might be located so that it wAould 'naturally receive, by
gr-avity, the returns of condcensation: from  all building's
ownred by the University.




NOT VEMBER MEETING, 191o.


II


It is believed -that all exhaust steam used in the generation of electricity for lighting, etc.,.and supplying the
various University buildings, would no more than; supply
the adjacent Hospital Buildings and thie Psychopathic Ward,
and if the.anount of steam more than exceeds the requirements of these buildings at this time, the growth of the
University, particularly the Hospitals, in a northeasterly
direction, will soon, if not at present, usie all such steoam.
As to whether it is economy to use exhaust steam.at all,
with the new plant, this is as yet undecided.
The propositions, then, if reduced to a basis with a
consideration for the amount of investment in the plants
and their operation, will be.about as follows:From the fact that site No. I cannot wel.l be connected
without very large expense for railroad sidings, a necessity,
this site is not recommended' or considered.
Si.tes No. 2 andl No. 3 may be compared by assuming
that site No. 2 will cost, on account of the expense o'f railroad connections, electric locomotive, etc., approximately
$75,0oo. more than site No. 3, and assuming th;at practically
all of the lexhaust steam furnished by 'the plant from  site
No. 3 will be used for heat in. the University Holspitals (an
assumption that probably wouldt not be fulfilled, for in all
probability, with —a modern pl'ant, live steaml wouldl be used
for all heating purposes), and further assuming that this
power plant proposition is considered as an investment proposition, with a consideration for operating expense, etc.,
your Chairman is of the opin:ion: that the most economical
site for;the Univ ersity Power Plant is, in the location
directly north of the University Hospital hereto fore described as site No. 3, and, in this conclusion careful consideration has been given: to the increased cost of transferring high pressure steam over the increased distance from
site No. 2 or if the pl.ant were located on the "Cat-hole" site.
Respectfully submitted,
WIM. L. CLAMENTS,
Chairman.
On motion of Regent Clemenlts, the Board authorized
an expenditure olf $$oo. for the preparing of prelimina;ry
plans for the power plant.    Regent Leland was out of the
roomn on this vote.
On motion, of Regent Sawyer, the Buildings and Grounds
Committee was autholrized to' purchasle a booster for thle




12


iNAOVElI'iBEIR MEETIiNG, 1910.


electric line to the University I-iospital at a cost of approxilately $I,Ioo.
On motion of Regent Clemenlts, the following- rules were
adtopted to be in force during the present win.terl:1. Th'e following buildings or parts of buildings and
all power motors are to be cut out of the electric service
between 4 o.'clock and 6 o'clock p. m.: University Hall,
Sarah Caswell Angell Hall, and Memorial Hall.
2. Lights in class rooms, lecture rooms, laboratorics,
(tc., are to he turnled off whlen these rooms are not il regul'ar
u    otio   of e.
On motion of RegenIt Sawyer, the iBoard adopted the
follo\wing resolution:Recsolcvd, On condition that the city of Ann; Arbor will
furnishl $25,0oo, for the purpose of building a contagious
disease hospital, the University of Michigan will furnish a
site for the same and agrees to equip.and maintain, it after
completion.  Such hospital shall be for the sole use of
patients taken sick of contagious diseases in the city of Alnn
Arbor, and such hospital shall be conduct:ed unlder such conditions as shlall be arranged bletween the city of Ann Arbor
and the Board of Regents.
-)On motion of Regenllt Beal, the 3Board adopted the followin g resolution,:WHi^1RAS, The patrons: of husbandry r1esiding near Anii
Arbor and the,citizens of Ann, Arbor are extending an
invitation to the Michigan State Grange to hold the ainnual
nmeeting of the Grange in Ann Arbor in December, 191, and
WHERrAS, We believe it is to the mutual advantage of
the University and the people of the State that the people
should becom, e better acquainted with their University, and
WHIRETH AS, The State Grange repriesents one of the largest and most influential classes of the population: of the
State,
'I'lrc/forc, Bc It Rlcsolvcd, That wIe, the Regents of the
University, do hereby extend to the State Grange most
cordial and hearty invitation to make Ann Arbor the place
of meetin:g in 1911, alnd that we extend to the State Grange
our assurance  that everything  possible  will be  done
by the University to make the visit to Ann A.rbor pleasant




.NOVI;AIEMBER MEETING, 1910.


3


and profitable in the way of acquainting the Gr:ange with
the University, its work, ideals, and possibilities.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Rcsolved, Believing that the University of Miichigan
Union has demonstrated its usefulness in promoting the
interests of the students, faculty and alumni of the University, and further believing that greater, improved facilities, which will provide a home for all returning alumni,
and more adequately serve the purpose of a center for all
student activity, are absolutely necessary, we heartily endorse the efforts of the Union to obtain funds with which
to build, equip. and endow a large, new club house. We
bespeak the co-o:peration and aid of all thle alumni and
friends of the University.
Regent Leland presented a communication, frolm Mr. L.
D. Carl offering three lots in R. S. Smith's Third Additioln
to, the City of Ann Arbor, the lots offered being adjacent to
the groutnds of the Homceopathic Hospital.
On imotion of Regent Leland, this communication was
referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for report.
The President reported on the steps that hlad beenl takenl
by the University authorities to' prevent smallpox breaking,out in the 'TUniversity, and the members of the        Board
informally agreed that the proper course had been pursued.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board referred to the
Committee on the Hoimceoopiathic M\edical College the question whether the rules under which patients are now admitted
toi the University Hoospital (page 779) should be extended
to govern the admission of patients to the Homcoopathic
Hospital.  The Homnoeopathic Committee is to investigate
and mlake report to the Board.
0On motion: of Regent Sawyer, the following appointments in, the Schooll of Pharmalcy were made, involving' no
increase in the budget:Kenneth William Tracy, Assistant in Botany and Pharmacogno;sy, to succeed himself, at a 'salary of $200. per year.
Arthur Floydi iSchlichting, Assistant in Pharmacy, to
succeed Chas. B. Jordan, resignled, at a salary of $200oo. per
year.




14


4NOVETM'BER MEETING, 19 o.


The Committee oni the Admission of Objects of Art to
the MAemorial Building reported, throlugh President Emeritus
James B. Angell, that the University had received, through
the will of the late Miss Mi. E. Horn, a painting by Robert
Hopkin entitled "Storm in the North Sea." The Committee
considered the painting a work o;f merit and recommended
that it be accepted. On motion of Regent Codd, such
formal acceptance was vioted.
On motion,of Regent Grant, Dr. William Lewis Rhonehouse was appointed House Physician at the Homoceopathic
Hospital, vice Dr. F. J. Colgan, resigned.
On motion olf Regent Grant, the Board all:owed the
request of Dean Hinsdale that that portioni of the Hommoe-opathic Hospital budget covering new apparatus and microscopes be allowed t'o be expended for the current expenses
of the College, such as advertising, printing and postage.
On, motion of Regent Grant, Dr. 0. R. Long of the
State Hospital at loniia was appointed noln-resident lecturer
on M\ental Diseases in the Homceopathic Medical College
without salary but with expenses.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board changed the
budget o'f the Homceopathic Hospital to include forty nurses
instead of thirty-eight, as the budget provided.
On motion of Regent Lelanc, the Board authorized the
return of all fees except laboratory fees for material actually
consumed, in the case o'f Mr. F. C. K. Luebke, who was
obliged to withdraw 'on account of illness within a. month
o'f his original registration.
A communication was received from the Auditing Board
transmitting the request of the Dean of the Department of
Law regarding the opening of rooms in the Law Building
in the evening for specific purposes.
On motion o'f Regent Clements, the Board voted that
the Buildings and Grounds Comm. ittee should' be authorized
to arrange for night janitor service in the Law Building and
in the Main Building, this night janitor service to cover
approximately the hours from 7 to Io.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board authorized a
change in the budget of the General Library restoring the
salary of Miss Esther A. Smith from $900. to $925. Miss




NOVE /,' IBER  ll J 2EET1ING, l i0.


I5


Smith's salary has been; $925., and by a clerical error the
budget for the present year reduced it to $9oo.
On motion ocf Regent Grant, the Board directed that the
Regents' Proceedings from the meeting of Octolber 26, I906,
to the meeting of October 7, 1910, inclusive, should be
indexed and the usual number of copies bolund.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board directed that
M\r. Albert R. Bailey, Instructor in Surveying, who lhas
never completed the work requisite for the bachelor's degree,
although fu;lly qualified by experience toi do, thle work!of an
Instructor in Surveying, should be permitted to complete the
s enior year's work in the Department of Engineering under
tlhe payment of the fees for a single year, although Mr.
Bailey's studies might extend over several years.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Charles Milton Perry,
A.B., was applointed hollder of t'he George' S. Morris Fellowship in. Philosophy for the year I910-1911, with the
stipend olf $200. The remiainder of the income from this
Fellowship is to be applied for thle purchase of new' books
for the Geolrge S. Morris Library.
On motion of Regent Beal, Kenneth W. Duncan, A.B.,
and PFrank C. Gates, A.B., were appointed Whittier FelloTws
in PBotany for the year I9IO-10-19, at the stipend of $200.
each.
On motion o'f Regent Bleal, follo-wing the recoilmmendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, teacher's diplomas were granted to the
following persons:

Bertha Agnes Anmmon
Alice Olivia Carpenter
Alberta Elizabeth Chase
Herman Aldrich Clark
Helen Hopkins Cook
Mattie Christine Dewey
TMuri.el Jennings Gray
Stephen John Hebeler
Robert Dawson Heitsch
Genevieve Belle Hopkins
Philip Marshall Keen
Sonia Ladoff
Elizabeth Brenneman Leonard


Claudia McMahon
Grace Benson M\arburger
Nita Beatrice Martin
Mary B3eatrice O'Callaghan
Alice Pierce
Helen Roberta Ross
Helen Pernin Shafer
Maude Emma Staiger
Clara Anglie Stiles
Arietta Orlean Van Ness
Sigrid Anna von Zellen
Levina S. Wotodworth




I 6          NOV ElIMBER IIEEETINAG, 191.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommlendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, the degree of Doictor of Philosophy was conferred upon the following persons:Floyd Earle Bartell, A.B., Albion College; A.M., University of Michigan
James Wellings Sturgis, A.B., A.M.
Joseph Morris Thomas, Ph.B., A.M.
Oln nmotion of Regent B!ea.l, following the recommendatioli of the Faculty olf the Departmlent of Literaturie, Science,
and the Arts, the degree of Master of Science was conferred
upon the following persons:Arthur Enmmons Bellis, A.B.
Royal Sumner Buzzell, B.S.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Departmentt o'f Literature, Science,
and the Arts, the degree of Master -of Arts was conferred
upon the following persons:William Benton Arbaugh, A.B.
Florence Katherine Ball, A.B.
MNarion LeRoy Billings, A.B.
Earl Williaam Castle, A.B.
Herman Ald'rich Clark, A.B.
Irene M/arie Cornwell, A.B.
John Alexander Craig, A.B.
Frances Norton Curry, Ph.B., University of Wooster
George Morris Curtis, A.B.
Robert James Dobson, A.B., Albion College
Carolyn Hawley Dudley, A.B., Hillsdale College
Dorothy Fuerstenau, A.B.
Ernest Clark Hartwell, A.B., Albion College
Myrtie May Haskins, B.L.
Frances Powell Hooper, Ph.B., University of Mississippi
Homer WValk!er Josselyn, A.B.
Louis Ward Keeler, A.B.
Carrie Krell
Katherine Cecelia Post, A.B.
David Wight Prall, A.B.
Mary Louise Smith, A.B.
Richard A. Smith, A.B.




NOTVEM'BER M'EETINAG, I1910.


7


Josleph Luther Thalman, A.B., Ohio Wesleyan University
William  Edward Wells, Ph.B., Iow-a College; A.MI.,
Denison University
John E. Winter, A.B.
On motion of Regenit Beal, following the recolmmendlation of the Faculty of the Departm!ent of Literaturie, Science,
and the Arts, the degree of Bachelor.of Scienlce was conferred upon Karl MlcCormick Scott.
On motion of Regenlt Beal, following the recommnendation of the Faculty olf the Departmentt of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, the degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred
upon the following persons:
Joseph George Black           T'hyrza M'cClure
Judson Wright Blackman        Cornelia Hempstead
Frances Marcella Bourne         McKnight
Douglas Campbell              Florence Jennie Mager
Alberta Elizabeth Chase       Nita Beatrice MIartin
Lew Allen Chase               George Frederick Noisom
Harold Hazeltine Clifford     Mary Beatrice O'Callaghan
Pearl Wilma Davey             Clair Olney
Carlisle Albert Ferguson      Eva Rosamond Pattison
William Arthur Geer           Alice Pierce
Minnie Goldberg               Howard Raymond Rarig
Albert Oscar Goodale           Marie Indabella Rasey
Carlton Wesley Green         MAaude Emma Staiger
Anna May Harper                Clara Angle Stiles
Egbert McGinnis Hayes         Allman Avon Todd
Luna Parkhurst Hindman         Cyrus Alfred Browning
John Edward Jacoby              Tremper
James Scott Johnston           Oscar W'ebber
Dana Erwin Jones               Paul Albert Wheelock
Philip Marshall Keen          Horace Zephaniah Wilber
Harold Augustus Kesler       Allen Fred Wood
Frances Adelaide Kingsley     Hubert Arthur Wright
Alvin Lorie                   Virgil Cameron Zener
Rlegent Codd was excused.
Regent Beal presented a communkication from Professor
D'Oioge and Professor Kelsey requesting leave olf absence
without pay for the second semester o;f the present year for
Dr. John G. Win-ter, in, order that he might 'accept a favorable opportunity for going abroad to study.    This leave of




18


A1 NO 'EllBER 1iEET.ITNG, 9 10.


absence was accordingly granted.     On the request olf Professor D'Ooge and Professor Kelsey, l\Mr. Frank F. Potter
was appointed Instructor in Greek and Latin for the second
semester in Dr. Winter's place, at a coimpensat'ion o!f $450.,
$300. of which should be charged to, the Greek department
and $150. to the Latin department. Mr. Potter will conduct
three classes now' assigned to, Dr. Winter, and one class will
be taken iby Professor Bonner in. place of Dr. Winter.
The following communication was presented by Regelnt
Clements:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to, the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for Novemnber 18, 1910.
I herewith petition your honorable body to authorize
that University Hall be opened.and the corridors be lightedl
every evening between the hours of seven and ten, and to
appoint;a janitor to supervise the building during these
hours. My reasons for this petition are as follows:
Last summer the room of the "Deutscher Verein" in
the Nortlh Wing was given up to the French Depart1melnt
and another room on the third floor of University Hall,
viz., Room 305, was assigned and fittedc up for the use of
that society. The "Deutscher Verein" is the representative
student organization of the German Department, consisting
of some 125 to I5o mnembers and divided for more efficient
work into five or six sections. On account of the stress of
the regular University work these sections have found it
impossible to meet during the day, and hence it has been
their practice to meet in the evening. The society, as now
organized, expects, therefore, to use the room assigned to
them several evenings every week.
Moreover, in the remodeling and readjustment of the
rooms in University Hall provision has been made for offices
and a seminary room for the German Department, and it
seems highly desirable that these rooms be accessible -every
evening to the various memblers of the Department.
Hoping that you may see fit to grant this petition, I am
Very respectfully yours,
MAX WINKLR.
Approved.                         JOHN 0. RIoD.
November I, I9io.




NOVEMBER MEETING, I9 10.


I9


On motion of Regent Clentns, the Board granted the
request, and arrangements are to' be made for heat, light and
janitor service under the previous action providing for ope-ning University Hall and the Law Building in the evening.
A conmlmunication was presented by Regent Leland from
the Auditor and Comptroller olf Student Organizations andl
from the chairman lotf the Senate Committee on1 Nlon-Athletic
Organizations requesting an allowance for furniture. On
motion of Regent Grant, this request w.as referred to the
Auditing Board with power.
Regent Beal presented a communication from the Director of the Chemical Laboratory calling  attention to the
increased number of students during the present year over
tha:t of the year previolus, anld stating the desirability of
additionaal assistance in the accounting laboratory. On motion
of Regent B:eal, this request was.laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Sa.wyer, $io. was added to the
equipment budget of the department of Surgery, and the
purchase of a cystoscoppe was authorized at a cost of not to
exceed the total of the increased budget, $85.
On motion of Regent Leland, the request of the Alumni
Asslolciatioln, for an additional allowance of $I75. to provide
for the use of cuts for the News-Letter and for the mailing
of the News-Letter in envelopes was laid on the table.
On motion the Board took a recess till the 1morning of
November 19 at o0 o'clock.
MORNING SESSION OF NOVEMBER 19
The Board reassembled at Io o'clock in, the Regents'
Room. Present, Regent Grant, Regent Codd, Regent Clements, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal.
Regent Coidd reported that the committee consisting of
himself, Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal had met with the
committee from the. University Senate, consisting of Dean
Reed, Dean Vaughan and Professor G. S. Williams, and
that the 'twlo committees had reached an agreement, recommending that the Board in Controll of Athletics should be
compo-sed of the following:



20


ATOV f/EBE2R MEER TING, 1910.


i. 'The Director of Outdoor Athletics, vwho shall he
Secretary of the Board. and keep a full record of all proceedings thereof.
2'. Three aiumni to be selected by the Regents.
3. Three students to be selected by the Athletic Association.
4. Four faculty members to be selected as follows:One by the Dean of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, one by the Dean of the Department of
Engineering, one by the Dean of the Department of Law,
and one by the Deans of the Department of Medicine and
Surgery, Homceopathic Medical College, Colllegie of Dental
Surgery, and the School of Pharmacy.
The members shall hereafter be selected on or before the
first day of Jun;e of each year, and shall serve for one year;
i. c., from June i to May 31 of the following year.
Regent Coddcl moved that the Board in Cotntrol of Athletics should be constituted as above recommended, and this
motion carried.
Regent Codd moved that the alumni meembers of the
Board in Control of Athletics for the present )ear should be
as follows:Mr. John D. Hilbbard, '87e, of Chicago, Illinois.
Mr. James E. Duffy, '90, '921, of Bay City, Michigan.
Judge Jamles 0. Murfin, '95, '961, of Detroit, Michigan.
The Board therupon elected      the  men nominated     by
Regent Codd.
On motion of Regent Codd, the Board voted that the
Deans should be requested to, certify their selections to the
Secretary of the Board at on!ce and that the Athletic Association be asked to select the student m1embers at once.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, it was voted that Mr.
George B. Denton should be appointed as Editor of tlhe
University News-Letter and should appear on the pay roll
of the University for the present University year at ithe
salary of $6oo. per year, and that it should    be his duty,
under this employment, (a.) to gather, under the direction
of the President of the University, the materials for the
News-Letter and to, edit 'the same; (b) to, give an equal
amount of time to. the work of the Alumni Association under
the direction of its General Secretary.   The salary of Mr.
Denton is provided for under the resolution at the October




NOVEIIBER llJLEET"ING, 1910.                2I
meeting (see page 827) authorizing thle sum of $840.75 to
le paid out of the appropriation of $7,000. for increasing
the usefulness of the University by the organization of the
alumni.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That provision and equipment of a house to
take car-e of Univiersity Hospital nurses be referred to the
Buildings and Grounds Committee and the MTledical Committee, with power to make lease and order equipment.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that the
salary of Miss Mabel Young, head clinic nurse at the University Hospital, shall be increased from  $45. to $55. per
month.
On Imotion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that the
salary of the clinic nurses in the University Hospital shall
be, for the first year, $45. per month; for the second year,
$50. per month, and tha:t the salary of the 'head nurses shall
be, for the first year, $4o. per molnth, and for the second
year, $45. per mo1nth, to take effect January I, I9I1. This
change affects the salaries of two, head nurses and one clinic
nurse.
On moltion of Regent Grant, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Departmen:t of Engineering, dcegrees were conferred as follows:Bachelor of Civil EngineeringFrederick Leo Liskow
Clair. Arvin MIyers
John Gallus Schaub
Roy Stanley Swin.ton
Frank Andrew Gniotowski
Andrew Leroy M.ennie
Bachelor of MXechanical Enginieer'ingEarl Delery Green
Lawrence Vincent Curran
Bachelor of Electrical Eln-gineerillgCharles Mlerwyn Rodi
Edgar Balch Zabriskie
Bachelor of Science in Chemical EnlgineeringPaul Sheppard Hamilton
Bachelor of Chemical EngineerinigBert Thomas March
William Anton Yung




22


2  NO VEMiBER 3MIEETING, 1910.


Bachelor of Science in M'arinme EngineeringAugusto Val.enzuela
Bachelor of Science in EngineeringFrank Thomas Shaw
Rocco Joseph Gorman
Benjamin Alvord Towar
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the folllowing were appointed holders of University Fellowships for!the current
academic year, the stipend in each case being $300.
Lew Allen Chase, A.B., University of MIichigan, American History.
Anna Trail HTarding, A.B., Wellesley College; A.M.,
University of Michigan, Rhetoric.
On motion,of Regent Sarwyer, the request for an increase
in the budget of the departmient of Geoloigy was laid on, the
table.
On motion, of Regent Grant, Mr. Claude Breckner and
Mr. Edward C. Wente were appointed Assistants in Physics
for the current University year at the compensation of $300.
each. These appointmenlts have already been, provided folr
in the budget.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the following equipment to, be built in olr ordered for the
Laboratory of Mineralogy, at a. total estimated     cost of
$I62.50:
3 units of drawers the sam.e as used in southwest room
of the Mineralogical Laboratory.
3 units of drawers same as in use in the vestibule of
that laboratory.
I shelf 5 ft. long, 26 inches widJe, to lhe placed in southw'est room.
A partition between vestibule and corridor, the same
to be painted.
Repairs to lock on the door between corridor and blowpipe room.
On motioln of Regent Sawyer, the Bolard authorized the
printing of the report of the University -Hospital at a cost
of approximately $200., to 'be paid from the present hospital
budget.




NOVEMBER MIEETING, 1910.


23


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized an
expense, from   the present Un;iversity Hospital budlget, of
$30. for lessions in massage, the lessons to, be given, to the
nurses in the Training Schoo.l.
On, mnotion of Regent Sawyer, th!e request oif the Superintendent of the University Hospital for the provision of isoalation ro,onms in the Palmer Waard was referred to!the Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
On mlotion of Regent Sawyyer, the request of the Superintendent 'of the   University   Hospital for painting    the
Women'       e         e    ens   Medical, te  s  ica  and the Women's
Surgical Wards, and the private rooms and clolsets inl coonnectio'n therewith, was referred to' the Commlittee on Buildings and Grounds, with pow!er.     The other requests of the
Superintendent 'of the Hospital contained int his commtunica!tion1l were ordered to, lie on the table.
The followling communication was received:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the followiing, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for November 18, 19go.
The Administrative Council of thle Graduate School at
the meeting held' October 27, I9Io, raised the question as to
whrether or not instructors and assistants who register in
the Graduate School for advanced study should be required
to pay the recently 'established library fee of $2.00. A protest has been entered concerning thle payment of the same,
on the ground that appointment to an instructor- or assistantship carries with it full library privileges.
'This library fee of $2.,00 has been collected from the
instructors and assistants this semester, and the Co'uncil
respectfully requests to be informed as to whether or not
thle regulation, as.adopted by the Board of Regents, was
intendced to include the members of the teaching staff, above
referred to.
Respectfully submitted,
E. D. CAMPOJIlr,
Chairman of the Administrative Council.
ED\WARD H. KRAUS,
Secretary of the Admcinistrative Council.
October 28, T9O0.




24


4NOVE f'ElBER M/LEETING, 191o.


On motio:n of Regent Codd, the Board declared that it
wa's not the intention of the Regents to, include members of
the teaching staff among those who shlould pay the library fee.
A commlunication was received from the Librarian stuggestfing the further apportionment o'f the proceeds of the
lilbrary fee in!the Department of Engineering.
On motio'n of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That in view of the expenditure of about
$20,000. for repairs to the Library Building and permanent
equipmenlt of the same, and $1,20o. for repairs to the engineerilng library ro0om, the balance of the proceeds of the
library fiee in the Departm:enit of Engineering shall be left
to the General Fund.
On m1otion of Regent Clem'ents, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolvcd, That the Auditor General be requested to set
aside from the General Building Fund into the fund for
repairs to the Old Chlemical Laboratory the sum of $2,200.
On mo!tion of Regent Clements, thle following resollutions
were adopted:Resolved, That the action by which thie expense of the
required repairs inl the General 'Library Buildin.g was to be
met t out of the Building Fund, (see page 722.), shall be
reconsidered, and that this expense shall be met out of the
General Fund, Repairs Account.
Resolved, That the action by which the Board directed
that the expense for stack furnishing  for the enlarged
library be charrged, if allowable, to the General Fundt, (see
page 782), be reconsidered, and that this' expense shall be
met out of the Building Fund, since thes-e stacks are essentially a fixed addition to the building.
Resolved, That the Auditor General be requested to
set aside from the General1 Building Fund into the Fund
for Stack Equipment of the General Library the 'sum of
$12,000.
On motion' of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved, a.s an
addlition tol the budget, the payment of $768. to Junior Professor HF  P. Thiem:e and $6oo. to Professor C. B. G. deNan



NOVEM/BER MEETING, 1910.


25


crede, these payments representing- summer session salaries
not drawn, but left on deposit with the Treasurer by them.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board passed 'the following resolution:Resolved, That the Auditor General be requested to
set aside from the General Building Fund into the fund for
the construction of the Eye and Ear Ward the sum of $i,coo.
The following communication was presented, and on
motion, of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved the addition
of the sum. of $I,I75.27 'tothe budget for. the present year:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possibl.e at your meeting called for November IS, I9IO.
There remained June 30 in the budgets of the various
libraries the following sums;:
General Library...........    $ 955.93
Medical Library                     2.47
Homceopathic Library.........     34.66
Dental Library.................   84.9
Engineering Library..............  97.3'0
Total......................$,175.27
These various sums, like the balances remaining in
other budgets, were turned back by me into thIe General
Fund. As sooni as the Librarian discovered this, he made
the claim that all balances had been for years continued in
the Library Book Funds, and this: statement I find to be
correct.  (Last year there were overdrafts instead of balances, so that the question did not arise.) Unless the Board
wishes to upset;the precedent which has undioubtedly been
established for years, and on which the Librarian undoubtedly acted in good faith this year in placing his orders, the
above sums to the total of $1,175.27 should be considered as
being added to the budg-et, and I ask that the Board will
confirm this addition.


SHIRUY W. SMITH.


November 9, I9IO.


On motion o f Regent Sawyer, folltowing recommendation
of the Departmlent of MAedicine and Surgery, the degree of
Doctor of Medicine was conferred olnl Hugo Otto Brown as
o'f the Class of 1910 and J'ohn; Ernest Dobson as of the Class
of 19I0.




26


2NTOVE1M'BER MlEETIANG, 1910.


The request of the Faculty of the.'Department of Medicine and Surgery for a special attendaant to serve a certain
number of lhours during the week in the Medical Library
was laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Secretary was authorized to pay a salary of $30. a mointJh for a messenger boy,
the former allowance having been $25.
01n mootion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
purchase for the College of Dental Surgery of three secondhand -operating chairs at not to exceed $I50., three dental
cabinets at not to exceed $45., and seventy lockers at not to
exceed $280., the total appropriation being $475.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the certificate of gradua;tionl from  the University Hoispiital Training School for
Nurses was granted tol the followiing:
Miss Susie Fisher
Miss Ethel Gertrude Simons
Miss Mary Elaine Gettings
Miss Marie Knapp.
On moltion of Regent Sawyer, the certificate of graduation from the Homceopathic Hospi!tal Training School for
Nurses was granted to Miss Bertha Robbi.
Regent Sawyer presented the following communication
from the Secretary, and, upon motion, the appointments were
confirmed:To -the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for Novembler I8, I910.
I beg to place before you for incorporation in the records the following appointments of assistants under the
authority given me at the tim  e the budget was approved.
Salaries of all these assistants are provided in the budg-et.
Mr. Richard Franklin- Keeler, Asst. Qual. Analysis..$roco.oo
Mr. Leonard Waterman, Asst. Demon-strator Anatomy 30o.oo,Mr. L. J. Schermerhorn, 3rd Asst. Physiology......  300.00
Mr. L. Curtis Guise, Asst. History................ 225.00
Mr. PPeter Hoekstra, Asst. History................. 225.00
'Mr. Harry Frederick Wittenbrink, Cloak Room Attendant, Law Dept............................. ICo.oo
Mr. Paul Edgar Erickson, Cloak Room Attendanit,
Law Dept...................................... o0o.oo




NOVEMiBER        MEETING, 1910.                  27
Mr. Elbert Castle Middleton, Asst. Practice Court,
Law Dept...................................... Io00o.
Mr. Bruce M.iles, MIessenger to Dean Lit. Dept.....  250.00
Mr. Glenn Earnest Palmer, A.B., Asst. Rhetoric...  300.oo
Mr. Frank C. Gates, Asst. Botany.................. Ioo.o
Mr. IKenneth Duncan, Asst. Botany................. 100.oo
M'r. Edward H. Pound, Asst. Botany...............   200.00
Mr. Arthur Koehler, Asst. Botany..................  200.00
Mr. Richard A. Gantz, Asst. Botany................     00o.o
Mr. Edwin C. Shepherd, Asst. Forestry........... IOO.0o
Mir. Leigh J. Young, Asst. Forestry................  200.00
Mr. Edward F. McCarthy, Asst. Forestry........... 0oo.oo
Mr. Elmer Raynor Colwell, Asst. in Waterman Gymnasiumn........................................  10O.00
Mr. Edwin Orvilie Slecord, Asst. in WVaterman Gymnasium....................................... I0oo.oo
Mr. Reginald Elliott Clark, Asst. Geology.......... 200.00
SHIRLY W. SMITIH.
'November Io, I9IO.
On mlotion of Regent Sawyer, the Board passed the following resolution:Resolved, That the Purchasing Department of thle University of Michigan be authorized to purchase for said Institution the following articles at a cost not to exceed $300:For the Treasurer's Office
6 Sections of document and correspondence files.
For the Secretary's OfficeI Case for student registration cards.
I Section for price cards.
Stenographer and typewriter's desk, chair and stands.
6 or more office chairs.
For the P'resident's OfficeStenographer and typewriter's desk, chair and stand.
Letter file.
Chairs or settee or both.
The following connmmunication was presented by Regent
Beal, amnd o'n his moltion, the appointments were approved:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for November IS, 191o.
The Auditing Board on October IO received from Prof.
E. D. Campbell, Director of lthe Chemical Laboratory, a




28


NOVEMlBER        MEETING, 1910.
statement that the enrollment in the Chemical Laboratory
was about I50 more than at the corresponding time last year
and that the departmlent absolutely requirec five additional
assistants, whome he thought he' would be able to secure
without pay under the usual condition, namely, that laboratory fees would not be charged them. The Auditing Board
after consideration approv;ed.the appointment of five assistants without pay but with the remission of laboratory fees,
on the express understanding that these appointments weere
subject to confirmation or 'disapproval later by the Board of
Regents. The following four persons were appointed on the
above condition; the name of the fifth has not yet been
communicated.
Mr. Lambert Th.orp, Assistant in General Chemistry.
Mr. John Henry Jensen, Assistant in Gleneral Chemistry:
Mr. Peter James Myers, Assistant in General Chemistry.
Mr. Joseph Daniel Yoder,. Assis-tant in   Qualitative
Analysis.
The Auditing Board begs to submit its action to the
Regents for confirmation or rejection.
We also requested Professor Campblell to file a complete list of all persons entitled to remission of laboratory
fees and all persons receiving free chemicals or free laboratory supplies of other sorts.  To this communication
Professor Campbell replied as, follows, which reply is submitted here for record. Professor Campbell's statement w ith
regard to "no other persons" refers to the five appointees
above mentioned. His communication is as follows:
"October 20, I91o.
Secretary SHIRLEY W. SM'IH,
University of Michigan.
lMy Dear S'ir: —All members of the. Chemical and Pharmacy Faculty are supplied with the necessary chemicals and
apparatus for their work, andl all teaching assistants and
laboratory assistants are eexempt from the payment of laboratory fees in chemical courses alnd are supplied with the
chemicals 'and  apparatus necessary  for their chemical
courses. There are no other persons, except those whicli
appear on the minutes of the Regents, who are exempt from
the payment of laboratory fees.  The holder of the Gas
Engineering Fellowship is not required to pay specific fees,
as the Gas Association deposits $1oo. annually with the




NOVEMIBER Ml1JEETING, 191o.


29


l'reasurer of the Univeersity, which sum more than covers
the cost of chemicals and apparatus taken from this laboratory by the holder of the fellowship.
Sincerely yours,
E. D. C\AMo;IJ,s,."
SHIRLEY W. SMITII.
November 10, 1910.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That thle Auditor General be requested to set
aside from the General Building Fund the sum of $s,5o0.
into a fund for the Construction of the Eye and Ear Ward
Corridor.
A commlunication was received from   the Professor of
Anatomy requesting the construction, of a. partitioin in! the
phlotographic dark room. of that laboratory.  This request
was laid on:the ta.ble for the approval olf the Dean.
A communication was received from. the President, for
the Senate Council, suggesting 'that the degree of Bachelor
of Arts as of the Class of I862 be conferred upon MAr.
RidgleyC Ceylon Powers, who was a student in the University
from 1859 to 1862, practically comple!ting thfe work here for
his degree with the Class of 1862. Near the end oif that year
he took a letter from Dr. Tappan to' Union, College, Twhere
hle received the degree of A.B. the same year. HIe entered
the army from  Ohio and rose to the rank of LieutenantColonel in 1865. After the War he settled in Mississippi
and was Lieutenant-Governor of that state from   1870 to
1872 and Glovernor from; 1872 to, 1874. Later, he removed
to Arizona and followed the profession' of Civil Engineer for
many years. He is now living at Los Angeles, California, in
his seventy-fonurth year, a member of the University   o'f
MAichigan Clubt of that city.
On motion of Regent Beal, the degree was conferred in
accordance with the recoimmendation,.
A commlunication was received from   the Dean of the
Department of Engineering relative to, the request of tihe
United Steam Engineers iof Detroit for the supervisory interest of the Departmient of Engineering in the direction of the
course of study.




30


N\TOV17EliBER l1IEETINTG, 91o0.


On motion of Regent Grant, action upon this communication was deferred until the next meeting in, order that a
conference nmight!be had with the Dean1 of the Department
of Engineering and with Regent Osbornl, the chairman of
the Committee on the Department of Enginleering.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the matter of changes in
the janitor service was referred to the Buildings and Grounds
Committee, with power.
A  collllmunication was received from   Librarian   Koch
requesting permission to, add to the salary of two of the
employees of the library from the salary remaining in the
case of another employee resigned.    On motion of Regent
Coidd, this requ.est was laid on the table.
On 0 motionl olf Regent Cocdd, the following commlunication
fromn the Librarian received the approval of the Board:To thle Ho-norable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for November 18, I9I10
A few weeks 'ago the Library was asked to make provision to store the sh.eets of unbound copies of Prof. Hinsdale's "History of th:e University of 'Michigan."  It did
not seem. good policy to me to put down in a basement a
book which ought to. be on the shelves of levery public
library of the State. There are several unopenued boxes of
the History in Univlersity Hall.. I suggested to the Secretary that we be allowed to circularizae the librarians of the
State )to find out how many of them did not have the book
and would be willing to pay transportation charges on a
complimentary copy if I could secure one for them. The
suggestion met with the hearty approval of both the Secretary and the President, the latter adding the suggestion that
the fitting schools be also reached. I have thus far sent out
I20 reply postal!cards and have fifty acceptances. Replies
are being received daily.
The Library would be glad to undertake the work of
Awrapping up and shipping the copies if allowed the requiredl
number. I am convinced that the book would interest many
youthful readers throughout the State and would bring in
good returns,in the way of students and public support.
Inasmuch as this request requires no outlay whlatsoever,
beyond the cost of circularizing the libraries referred to, I
earnestly hope that it may meet with the approval of the
Board.




NOVEMIBER MEETING, 1p91 o.


3 


If desired the circularizing might he car'ried into the
territory of Northern Ohio and& Northern Indiana, from
which field the University can always expect a. good repiresentationl of students.
TmI;o. W. Koch,
Librarian.
November 10, 1910.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was passed:Resolved, That it is contrary to thie policy of the Regents
to increase salaries during the University year except under
most extraordinary conditions.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the followingl resolution
was passed:
Resolved, That, under the preceding resolution, the
request of the M'edical Faculty for an increase in salary for
Miss Maude Forhan cannot now be granted and should be
madle to the Budget Committee for 19II-I912.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was passed:Rcsolved, That the sum of $50. be granted to Miss
M;aude Forhan for extra admlinistrative work done during
the past sulnllmer.
On motion of Regent Grant, the request of the Dean of
the Department of Engineering for a change in the title of
Conrad Lucas to MlLechanic in Electrical Engineering with
an increase in salary from' $55O. to $800. was referred to, the
chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee, with
power.
On.motion of Regent Codd, folloNwing the recommendation olf thie Faculty of the Department of Law, the degree oi
Bachelor of Laws wa.s conferred upon the following:Gl'enn Morse Ely
Rolla Meade Gallowcay
Clyde Harden
John Russ'ell McDavid
Thomas James Riley
Michael Edw\ard Sargent
Jess P. Palmler, as of the Class of I905




32         NATOVEMBER MEETING, I9Io.
Regelnt Clements presented the report of the engineer
employed to inspect and report on the condition of University
Hall.
O'n motion of Regent Clements, the typewritten report
with blue prints was placed on file by the Secretary in the
minutes of the meeting.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that the
chairman *of the Buildings and Grounds Committee be instructed to ask the engineer to, prepare plans for strengthening the galleries of University Hall.
On motion thle Board adjourned to, Decembler 21 at I0
o'clock A. AM.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




DECEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, December 21, I910. 
The Board met in the Regents' room at Io o'clock A. M.
Present, Regent Knappen, Regent Grant, Regent Codd,
Regent Clements, Regent Oshborn, Regent Beal and Regent
Leland.  Regent Sawyer and Superintendent of Public
Instruction W'right took their seats later, as stated below.
On motion of Regent Codd, the minutes of the meeting
of November I8 were approved, with two, corrections, as
submitted'to the Regents in proof, including the election
of the student members of the Board in Control of Athletics by the directors of the Athletic Association, as provided in the original resolution introduced at the May
meeting. (See p. 704.)
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On motion of Regent Clements, the matter of the fee
proposed to be charged to University women for the use of
Palmer Field (see page 694 previous volume, page I this
volume of the Proceedings) was referred to the Committee
on Athletics for report.
On motion olf Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That it is the sense o'f the Regents that the
large room in the basement of Alumni Memorial Hall should
be used by the students for social purposes as solon as the
necessary funds for furnishings and equipment can be
secured.
Regent Clements reported on the offer to sell three lots
in R. S. Smith's Third Addition (see page I3), and on
motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board laid this proposition
on the table.
Regent Clements reported   that the Buildings and
Grounds Committee had directed that one ward and the toilet rooms at the University Hospital should be painted, and
further reported that the Committee did not recommend at
present the provision, of isolation rooms in the Palmer Ward.
On motion of Regent Osborn, the Board voted that Mr.




34


DECEMBER MEETING, I910.


John J. Krauss, a minor student who had been registered
in the University as a resident of Ohio, should be regarded
as a resident of Michigan and that his fees should be in
accordance with residence.
Regent Clements made an informal statement showing
the economy that would result from a modern power plant
and pumping station, and from a general storehouse for
University supplies.
Regent Grant emphasized the desirability of an addition
to the Homceopathic Hospital to take the place of the
present Homceopathic College Building.
The President pointed out the need for a Science Hall.
On motion of Regent Beal,- the following resolution was
passed:Resolved, That a special committee of five members be
appointed to make request to the Legislature for an appropriation to cover a power, heating and lighting plant and a
storehouse, and to present to the Legislature such further
requirements of the University as may be deemed advisable,
The President thereupon appointed Regent Clements,
chairman, Regent Codd, Regent Grant, Regent Sawyer and
Regent Beal.
The President presented for the Treasurer the biennial
inventory of the University at the close of the fiscal year
ending June 30, I9Io0, showing real estate to the value of
$404,015., buildings valued at $2,406,950., and equipment,
etc., to the val'ue of $1,341,324.74, making a total of
$4,152,289.7I. The inventory covered I,592 typewritten
pages. The inventory, as submitted by the Treasurer, was
accepted by the Bo!a.rd.
The President presented the annual report of Mr. George
S. Baker, Treasurer olf the University, for the fiscal year
ending Junle 30, I910. This report was referred to the
Finance Committee for report thereon later in the session.
On: motion of. Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized the
erection of a partition in Room 202 in the New Medical
Building, as requested by the Professor of Anatomy. The
co0st, estimated at $77.22, is to be charged to repairs.
Regent Beal presented a request of the Director of the
Chemical Laboratory, along the same lines as a request




DECEIEMBER MEETING,.pI9o..


35,


made at the previous meeting, for an additional assistant in
the dispensing room   of the Laboratory.   Tihis request was
on m1iotion referred to the Budget Committee with power.
The following communication was received:To thle Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible 'at your meeting called for Decelmber
21, 1910.
Mr. Fred W. Hunter, First Teaching Assistant in General Chbemistry, 'salary $700. per annum, has sent in his resignation to t.ake effect January I. This would entitle him
to threle payments of $70. each. In compliance with a letter
from Dr. S. L. Bigelow, I recomm-end that forty dollars be
paid to Glenn B. Britton for taking care of Mr. Hunter's
laboratory work from the Christmas vacation to the end
of the first semester, and that Dr. Fl'oyd E. Bartell, now
Instructor in General Chem.istry for the first semester only,
he continued as Instructor in General Chemistry during the
second semester at a salary of $450. These chalnges will
enable the work to ble carried on satisfactorily -and will
involve no chaige in the budget. for the current year.
Respectfully submitted,
E. D. CAMPBELL.
December 5, I9IO.
On motion olf Regent Beal, appoitenments were made of
Mr. Britton and Dr. Bartell as requested.
Regent Codd presented the request of the Librarian for
increases for two memnbers of the Library staff. After discussion, in view;of the resolution  of the Regents at the
November mee:ting'stating tlhe policy of the Board to, be
opposed to' the increase of salaries during the University
year, on motion of Regent Codd, thils request was laid on
the table.
On motion of Regent Codd, the Bo'ard granted the request.of Mir. F. L. D. Goodrich, of the General Library -staff,
for three m onths' leave of absence without pay in addition
to 'one month's regular vacation with pay, to begin ablout
April I, for the purploses oif travel and study in Europe.
A request was received from Dean Hinsdale for permission to; vary the equipment specified in the 'budget of th(
Homn.ceopathic Hospital, and to allow the purchase of electrical and sinmilar apparatus in, place of other apparatus spec




36


DECEMBER MEETING, 1910.


ified in the budget tol the amount of approximately $8oo0.
This request, involving  no; increase in the budget, was
granted.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board applied the same
conditions oif admissioln of patients to. the Homoeopathic Hospital as apply tol the University Hospital (see page 779, previous volume).
On motion,of Regent Beal, the request of Dean John 0.
Reed and Professor R. M. Wenley for the appointment of
an Assistant in Psychology at the salary of $250. for the
year, to date from  the beginning of the University year,
was referred to the Budget Committee.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the 'Faculty of the Department of Medicine and
Surgery, the degree of Doctor of Medicine as of the class of
1910 was conferred upon James Casper Negley.
On motion of Regent Beal, the degree conferred upon
Clarence Enzenroth at the meeting of July 21 (see p. 804)
was changed from Bachelor of Arts to Bachelor of Science.
The following communication was received from the Secretary of the University and on motion of Regent Knappen
was made a matter of record:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for December
21, I9IO.
Since the last meeting of the Board, Professor Harrison
Standlish Smalley has withdrawn $768. which he had left on
deposit with the Treasurer as compensation for two summer sessions of teaching; and Instructor Irving Day Scott
has withdrawn $576. for two summer sessions. The sum of
$1,344. is thus to be regarded as added to the budget of
the present year.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH.
December 9, I910.
On motion of Regent Osborn, the request of the Triangle
Society for permission to place a bronze tablet in the pavement of the arch of the New Engineering Building1 was
granted.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the request of the Profes



DECEMBER MEETING, 1910.


37


sor oif 'Otolaryngology  that the   stenographer who     was
assigned by the Board to perform stenographic work for this
department a:nd    for the- department of Ophthalmology,
should be assigned full time to the department of Otolaryngology, was laid on the tablle.
Dr. James F. Breakey, City Physician of the city of Ann
Arbor, appeared and addressed the Board concerning a proposed contagious disease hospital.    This question was referred to Regent Sawyer and Regent Beal for report later
in the session.
Regent Codd p resented the request of Professor D'Ooge
and Professor Kelsey for the construction of shelves for
the storage of portions of the groups of casts of the Arch of
Trajan. On motion of Regent Codd, the Board voted that,
instead of being placed oln 'shelves, these casts should be
boxed for storage.
Regent Leland presented thle following communication
from the Secretary and the appointments were confirmed:To the Honorabl!e Board of Regentsl:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for December
21, I910.
Since the last mleeting of the Board the following persons hav~e been appointed' to assistantships provided for in
the budget. The appointments are submitted for confirmation 'and reciord.
Albert B. Hinsdale, A.B., M.D., Assistant to Professor
of Theory and Practice in Homoeopathic Medical College,
vice Dr. Roy 0. Knapp, resigned; Dlecember I, rate $200.
per year.
Jerome G. Kuderna, Half-time Messenger to Dean J. O.
Reed, December I, rate $25o. per year.
George L. Keenan, Assistant in Botany, vice Edward
Iarold Pound, resigned; Nov'ember 14, rate $200. per year.
Alva Benson Clark, Assistant El'ectrical Enlginleering,
vice Osborn H. Larimer, resigned, November I, rate $200.
per year.
Edward W. Upham, Second Assist.ant in Qualitative
Analysis, without salary, but with remission of laboratory
fees, Niovemnber 21.
SHIRIiY W. SMITH.
December' Io, I9Io.




38


DECEMBER MEETINVG, 191o.


On motion of Regent Clements, the Secretary     was
directed to make such settlement as he deemed proper with
a firm in Chicago making claim against the University for
services in sharpening and otherwise repairing various
surgical instruments.
The Secretary laid before the Regents the indebtedness
to the University upon the part of a tenant in the house at
233 South Ingalls St., owned by the University. On motion
of Regent Grant, this question was referred to the Building
Committee, the M\edical Committee and the Secretary with
power to make such adjustment as was deemed proper.
On motion o-f Regent Osborn, an unpaid balance of
$28.I8 of expenses of representatives of the University on
their trip among western alumni last spring' was referred
to the committee, headed by Regent Codd, having in charge
the adjustment with the Auditor General's office 'of t'he whole
qutestion of the payment of traveling expenses outside the
State of Michigan.
On motion oIf Regent Osb'orn, Assistant Professor Louis
C. Karpinski was granted leave of absence from the University on February 6 and 9, in order that he might deliver
two lectures before t'he New York City Department of Education on the History o'f Arithmetic. Proifessor Karpinski
is to proivide a substitute to care for his work during his
absence.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted the request
of the Cercle Frangais for the use of the room recently
vacated by the Deutscher Verein.
Regent Clements reported that janitor service had been
provided for University Hall' and the La.w Building fro.ml
7 to 10:15 'o'clock P. M., with the understanding that a. small
fee is to be charged to, the societies or persons using such
rooms in those buildings at these 'hours.
On motion of Regent Osborn, the request o'f the Professor of French for an appropriation, of $6o. to, cover the
expenses of a lecture by Monsieur Gustave Michaut was
referred to, Regent Beal with power.
State Superintendent of Public Instruction, L. L. Wright
took his seat.
Regent Beal presented the budget o'f the Summer Session of Ii91 as proposed by Professor E. I-I. Kraus, Acting




DECEMBER MEETING, 19i10.


39


Dean of the Summer Session. On moltion, of Regent Clements, this proposed budget was referred to the Budget Committee and the President with power.
Regent Clements brought up the matter of an additional
janitor for the Waterman Gymnasium. N;o action was taken.
Regent Beal presented the request of the Professor of
Botany for the Construction of a cabinet with locks for the
uise of students in a course in Plant Physiology. T'he estimated cost of this cabinet is $131.70. On, moition of Regent
Beal, this request was referred to the Auditing Board with
power.
Regent Sawyer presented the following resolution, which
was unanimously and enthusiastically adopted:Resolved, On this the last meeting that Regent Osborn
will act with this Board, that the Board of Regents express
their appreciation of the iexcellent service rendered by him
to the University and that,the Board extend to him their
sincere congratulations and heartiest wishes for a most successful administration in the high office he will soon assume.
Regent Osborn made a few fitting remarks in response.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board took a recess till
2 o'clock.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
When the Board re-assembled, there were present Regent Knappen, Regent Grant, Regent Clements, Regent
Sawyer, Regent Beal and Regent Leland.
Regent Sawyer reported for himself and Regent Beal
with regard to the contagious disease hospital. This committee had consulted further with. Dr. Breakey, and recommen:cled ithe following as conditions o'f agreement between
the city of Ann Arbor and the University of Michigan:
On' condition that the city of Ann Arbor will furnish
and turn over to the Regents of the University of MIichigan
$25,000. for the purpose of building a contagious. disease
hospital in said city, the University of Michigan agrees to
furnish a site for the samne, build a hospital to cost at least
the aforesaid amount, andl will equip and maintain it in
perpetuity, furnishing necessary medical attendance and
nursing.
Such hospital shall be open at any and all times for the




40


DECEMABER MEETING, 191o.


reception of any patients taken sick in the city of Ann Arbor
with a contagious disease. The number of such patients
shall be limited only by the full capacity of such hospital.
The ratles charged by the University shall always be in
accordance with those charged other patients in the other
University hospitals receiving similar accommodations.
When such hospital shall not be in use, either in whole
or in part, for the care of contagious disease patients, the
University shall be free to make use of such part of it as
is not occupied.as the Regents may see fit. Rules for the
con.trol 'of the hospital shall be mdce by the Board of
Regents.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted and
approved the above as conditions to be submitted to the city
of Ann Arbor for the purposies stated.
Dean Cooley appeared and addressed the.Board with
regard to the matters under discussion     with the   United
Steaml Engineers of IDetroit. On motion this question was
referred to Regent Grant, Regent Leland and Regent Co.dd
for further consideration of details, and report.
On motion of Regent Beal, the matter of lectures by
members of the Architectural department, and the place in
Detroit in which the lectures in question should be given,
was referred to the above, committee.
The Treasurer of the University, Mr. George S. Baker,
appeared and addressed tfhle Boiard. He p!ointed out the fact
that the budget for the year    191-1911 (exclusive of all
building and other special accounts) together wTitll appropriations made up tol and including the meeting of November
T8, 19o1, exohausts the estimated incomle of the University,
including an entire year's mill tax, and reduces the working
balance from   approximately -$ I7,oo000. to   approximately
$92,000. After discussion, on motion of Regent Leland, the
following action was taken:In view of the fact that the appropriations in the budget
for the University year from July I, I9Io, to June 30, I91,
contemplate the use of an entire year's mill tax, therefore
be it resolved, that the Treasurer of the University is
instructed to withdraw the remaining one-tenth of the mill
tax for I9Io from the State Treasury, before *the first day
of January, 'T9T.




DECEMBER MEETI'ING, I9-1o.


41


On: motion oof Regent Leland, the Board accepted Treasurer Baker's annual report, referred to above, and adopted
it as the report of the Finance Committee to the Board. (See
appendix to these minutes.)
On motion!of Regent Beal, two thousand copies of the
report were ordered printed.
Dean Cooley addressed the Board upon the choice of a
successor to Professor Emeritus J. B. Davis, as head of the,
department of Surveying.
Regent Grant made report as chairman of the committee
which was to consider what sort of and how much outside
professional work should be performed by miembers of the
Engineering Faculty. A discussion at some length followed,
during whichi Regent Codd and Superintendent Wright took
their seats. No folrmal action was taken and it was understood that the committee would consider certain points of
the subject somewhat further.
On motionn of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that Clarence T. Johnston, at present irrigation engineer of the State
of Wyonming, should be appointed Professoir of Surveying
in the Department of Engineering, at the salary of $3,ooo.
per year, to take upl his duties with the beginning of the second semester of the present University year. The performance by him of professional work outside his duties to the
University is to be subject to such conditions as the Boara
may determine.
Regent Leland presented his report in connection with
the purchase of securities of Messrs. Baird and Cochran as
authorized by the Regents.
Regent Leland stated that le had personally inspected
loans to the amount of $30,OI.5o0, in accordance with the
schedule which he presented. On motion of Regent Leland,
the Board approved these loans as investments for University trust funds, provided,that Professor Bunker, counsel of
the Board, shall approve the abstracts involved.
Regent Leland further reported on the proposed purchase of certain municipal bonds. On. motion oof Regent
Leland, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That the Treasurer of the University be instructed to buy, as investmlent for the trust funds of the
University, street improvement 5% bonds to the amount of




42


DECIEM/BER M/EETIING, 19i zo.


$0,o,coo. of the City of Temple, Texas, as described.in tlhe
bond memorandum of Messrs. B. H. Rollins & S-ons, under
date of Niovember 17, the bonds to be purchased at I03 and
interest, to net 4.75%.
On motion oif Regent Beal, Regent Sawyer's expense
voucher amounting to $91.58 was approved.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the schedule governing
the payment of:head nurses and clinic nurses at the University Hospiltal was altered; to read as follows:Asst. Supt. of Nurses.Ist year $55., after Ist year $60., per mo.
Clinic Nursesi.....s.It year $45., after Ist year $50., per mo.
Head Nurses.......Ist year $4o., after Ist year $45., per mo.
Dietitian........... Ist year $40., after Ist year $45., per mo.
The salary of Miss Mabel Young will therefore be $50.
per mnonth instead -of $55. per month (see p. 21), all the.
above changes to take effect January I.
On motion of Regent Beal, the degree of Bachelor of
Arts was conferred upon the following:Emma Jane How,arth
Don Vander Werp
On motion of Regent Grant, a communication from Professor Filiblert Roth relative to, matters concerning the Forestry department was referred     to the Commlittee on    the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts for investigaltion and report.
On motion olf Regent Grant, a commlunication from Professor A. S. Whitney relative to an arrangement with the
Board o4f Education of the city of Ann Arbor by which the
department of Pedagogy might have facilities for observation purposes, w'as referred to the Committee on the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Regent Beal presented the following communication:To the Honorable Boiard of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible 'at your meeting calledl for December 21, 1910.
Thle undersigned, Profesisor of Philosophy in the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, respectfully
asks for leave of absence on full pay for the entire academic
year, 19II-I912, with the understanding that he provide a




DECEMiBE R M11EETING, 1910.


43


substitute who shall be satisfactory to the lhead of the
departtmlent of Philosophy. It may not be irrelevant to say
that the petitioner has been. in the service of the University
continuously for twenty years and that it is his intention to
spend the coming year abroad, partly in study, and partly in
travel and recreation.
Respectfully yours,
ALFRED H. LLOYD.
I cordially approve this request.
J. O. REED, Dean.
On motion of Regent Grant, the request of Professor
Lloyd was granted.
On motion of Regent Beal, the,appointment of Miss
Anna T. Ha:rding to a University Fellowship in Rhetoric
(see page 22) was cancelled, as Miss HaIrding had been
unable to accept the fellowship.
On motion oif Regent Beal, following the request of the
Professor of Philosophy and thie Dean of the Department of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, the title of;Dr. Walter B.
Pillsbury was changed to be Professor of Psychology.
On motion the Board adjourned to January 19, I9II.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




APPENDIX TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS
DECEMBER 21, 1910
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE TREASURER OF THE UNIVERSITY
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:Gentlemen: Herewith I submit my annual report for the fiscal year ending June
30, I9IO.                      Very respectfully,
GEORGE S. BAKgR, Treasurer.
CONDENSIED STATEMENT GENERAL, SPECIAL AND BUILDING FUNDS.


------
-----— -  -— 5 ----

Balance July I, 909.....................................
State Treasurer:
3Y Mill Tax, General Fund.............................
University Interest Fund...........................
Special Appropriations..................................
Building Fund (saving on Mill Tax last 3 years)..........
Miscellaneous Sources:
General Fund...........................................
G eneral  F und...........................................
Special Appropriations..................................
Building Fund..........................................
Balance June 30, I90....................................


Receipts.
I
$ I42,475.27
585,258.75
38,5 1.63
9,000.00
325,045.46
473,249.03
Columnl 5
Column Io
Column 14


Disbursem;ents.
2............
ColIImn  4
Column   4
Column   8
Column 12
Column   4
$1,096,354.77
9,I57.30
30I,253.60
166,774.47
$1,573,540.14


DETAILED STATEMENT GENERAL FUND.


- - --- - ---- ---- — I --- —- I — '"


I


Student
Fees
3




Receipts
4
$ 126,264.54


Disbursements
5


Balance July I, 1909....
State Treasurer,,
38 Mill Tax........
State Treasurer,
University Interest...
Alumni Association...
Appointment Committee
Bogardus Camp Land.,
Barbour Gymnasium...
Contingent.............


585,258.75..........


Salaries
6....................
2.........
3..........
3. —   -   --




Refdunds
7


38,5 1.63............
494.00
1,744.44


$     1,o5o.o0
442.0:
804.0:
245.5'(
14,425.3,


12.00..


$   494.00




DECE/MBER M1EETING, 191o.


45




_




-Q1 -  -  -  -. -


I.


I




Care of Teams........
Carpenter Shops.......
Commencement........
Combined Courses.....
Diplomas............
Electrical Supplies.....
Fuel..................
General Catalog.......
General Library Book...
Gen. Library Contingent
Gen. Library Pay Roll..
Graduate School......
General Pay Roll......
Hinsdale History......
Heating Supplies......
Interest...............
Key Deposits.........
Humanistic Studies....
Laundry..............
Lights................
Museum-..............
Observatory..........
Oratorical Association..
Printing...............
Postage.......
Printing Plant.........
Palmer Field.........
Repairs...............
Real Estate..........
Removal of Art Gallery
School Inspection.....
Summer School Literary
Summer School Law..
Summer School Medical
Summer School Engineering.............
Summer School Homeop
Sutmmer School
Graduate............
Summer School Pay
Roll................
Summler School Barbour
Gymnasium.........
Summer School Waterman Gymnasium...
Summer School Expenses..............
Summer School Library
Thesis................
Teachers' Diplomas..
Telephone Rental......
Waterman Gymnasium..


Student
Fees
3
1,922.00
I0,320.00
5,825.00
539.00
8.50
io,69.oo
3,605.00
i,770.00
6, 20.00
25.00
2,.892.00
53. 00
24.00.500.c
258.0o
3,096.0oc
3,096.0.0




I


Receipts
4
150o.00
I 022.00
10,320.00
212.50
1,480.51
188.99...........
5,825.0,0
17.38
2.50
1,340.72
5319.00
85I.IS
325.16
6.04
99.44
197.28
8.50
I8.8o
r,054.99
10,629.00
3,60o5.00
1,770.00
6,120.00
25.00
2,892.00
288.00
53.00
24.0c
3.45
500.0oc
258.oc
3,096.0o


Disbursements
5
1,608.97
11.08
435.12
295.00
772.00
5,813.97
46,324.10
I,055.20
12,146.83
2,189.55
22,670.90
576.90
82,565.42
17.75
2,503.35
512.00
248.47
r1,545.68
1,977.96
652.26
697.06
I05.79
3,686.62
2,363.46
2,921.82
33,876.94
93.64
555.96
75.00
70.00
30.00
55.00
37,245.00
4.00.50
1,788.97
61.98
300.00
3...........
973.70
I44.48


Salaries
6...........................
$ 22,670.90
82,565.42..........




Refunds
7
295.00
100.00
30.00
3o.co
512.00
75.00
70.00
30.0oo
55.00.........


I






4.00.50
300.00
14.00......e...
























46


DECIlEMBER l/MEETING, IQIo.






-


I


Wlater Supply.........
Water Analysis........
Dental Department.....
Dental Library........
Dental Supplies.......
Dental Laboratory.....
Dental Pay Roll......
Architecture..........
Civil Engineering.....
Chemical Engineering..
Drawing..............
Engineering Apparatus..
Engineering Administration..............
Electrical Engineering..
Engineering Shops.....
Engineering Lockers..
Engineering Department
Engineering Pay Rolls..
Engineering Library...
En gineering Key
Tickets..............
Mechanical Laboratory.
Marine................
Physics...............
Physics (Special).....
Surveying.............
Summer Camp.......
Homeopathic College....
Homeopathic Pay Roll..
Homeopathic Library...
Homeopathic Hospital.
Homeop. Hos. Pay Roll
Law Department.......
Law Dept. Pay Roll....
Law Library.........
Law Administration....
American History......
Botanical Garden......
Botanical Laboratory..
Biological Camp.......
Change of Election....
Delayed Election......
Delayed Registration...
English..............
Education.............
Forestry..............
French................


Studenlit
Fees
3
12,620.00
2,210.00
504.00
1,889.00
5.00
72,947.50




=


--------


r




Receipts
4
591.95
I2,620.010
6,750.59
2,210.00
504.00
6.oo
1,889.00
522.26
5.00
72,947.50




---------------




I


-;=




5,645.00
470.00
700.50
4,325.00
56,576.00










174.0o
5,645.oo
125.00
470.00
700.50
4,325.00
33,097.14
56,576.oo
300.00
32.36
20.49
1,429.00
I2.00
112.00
60.00oo


Disbursements
5
3,173-54
6,056.52
I47.15
10.00
I 4,709.20
1,474.43
237.59
193.71
560.6i
7,865.85
I,047.1
770.80
3,291.3I
6.oo
2,719,88
152,146.77
2,137.46
49.00
1,365.o7
99.37
1,974.01
44.00
234.3I
2,532.31
I,284.27
9,142.70
188.84
23,847.19
I,894.72
3,473.2I
60,767.99
2,591.45
166.29
2,520.42
I,887.13
1,412.23
I.00
5.00
3OI.80
30.10
654.03
140.67


Salaries
6...........
152,146.77......................19,142.70..........
11,894.72
60,767.99..........




I


_..




Refunds
7
135.00
90.00
380.50
qo.so
6.oo
2,177.50
49.00
102.50
44.00
10.00
33.00
2,470.00.........
58.00
I.OO
5.oo


i






1,429.00
12.00
112.00
60.oo




I




I






I




I


I




DECEMBER MEETING, ipio.


47


--


Geology...............
German...............
Greek.................
History...............
Literary Department....
Literary Pay Roll.......
Latin.................
Latin (Special).......
Music.................
Miathemnatics..........
Mineralogy...........
Political Economy....
Philosophy............
Rhetoric..............
Russian Literature....
Solid Geometry.......
Special Examinations.
Zoology...............
Anatomlical Laboratory.
Anatomical MAaterial...
Demonstration   Courses
Dermatology..........
Histology.............
Hygiene...............
Medical Department....
Medical Pay Roll......
Medical Library......
Materia Medica........
Neurology............
Ophthalmology........
Otology...............
Osteology.............
Pasteur Institute......
Physiology............
Pathology............
Pharmacology.........
Practical Anatomy...
Surgical Department...
Theory and Practice....
University Hospital....
JUniversity Hospital
Pay Roll............
Chemical Laboratory.;.
Chem. Lab. Pay Roll...
Pharmacy Department..
Pharmacy Department
Pay Roll............
Balance June 30, I9I0..


Student
Fees
3
76,585.00
340.00
556.00
220.00
150.00
335.00
75.00
1,318.83..........
3,830.00
1,317.00
6,2752.8
I5,5061.
$ 50.00
57i.6o
1,340.00.
535.00
1,734.00
I9,232.96
5,58o.ox
$342,792.0:


Receipts
4
76,585.00
6.66
340.0o
556.oo
220.00
150.0o0
335.00
75.00
1,318.83
1.35
31.60
3,830.00
I,31 7.00
6,275.18
I5,06I.00
90.00............
150.00
2,150.00
57I.6o
1,340.00
535.00
1,734.00
78,555.22
20.96
19,232.96
)      5,58o.00
7 $1,223,283.95


Disbursements
5
438.89
146.87
26.04
201.74
2,473.22
239,497.95
3IO.91
95.72
40.82
I,I45.44
414.62
308.35
I79.4I
10.00
5.00
1,423.72
296.14
2,913.95
50.00
41.73
614.87
8, I6. I5
687.87
66,343.01
3, I8.52
476. 8
I31.90
341.65
231.26
92.00
I4.40
457.93
1,441.48
15.00
35.00
634.43
799.20
42,455.76
24,894.63
36,446.93
34,055.59
I95.oo
5,580.00
I26,929.I8
$1,2231283.95


Salaries
6....................
239,497.95
66,343.01....................
24,894.63
34,055.59
5,580.00
$761,513.88
Total
Salaries


Refunds
7
2,405.00
38.25
10.00
5.o0)
35.00
50.00
I 6.oo
I,015.65
253.510
92.00
5. oo
5.00
15.00
35.00
3,460o. 1
195.00
$15,622.54
Fees
Refunded






Total Student Fees....


Less Fees Refunded,
Column  7...........  15,622.5.
Student Fees Net....... $327,I69.5,


3
3










I


]




48


DL EC AlBER llMEETING, 19 0lo.
DETAILED STATEMENT SPECIAL APPROPRIATIONS.


HOMEOPATHIC MEDICAL COLLEGE.


Receipts.
8


Balance July I, I909....................
From   State Treasurer..............
Paid Vouchers............
Balance June 30, I910.................


$  6,ooo.oo.........


Total.
9
$ 747.44
6,ooo.oo
$ 6,747.44
$ 3,000o.oo
$ 3,000.00


Disbursements.
10
I,
*$ 6, I 57.310


Total.
II
$ 6,I57.30
590.14
$ 6,747.44


SUMMER HOSPITALS.
F      rcmn S-tate Treasurer.................




$?.00o.00


Paid Vouchers.............................


$  3,000.00


$ 3,000.00
$ 3,000.00


PSYCHOPATHIC WARD.


Balance Overdrawn July I, 1909.........
Balance Overdrawn June 30, 1910.......


$ 9,000oo.oo


$ 9,464.63
$ 9,464.63.......... $ 9,464.63
$ 9,157.30 $ 9,464.63


DETAILED STATEMlENT BUILDING ACCOUNT.
ACCUMULATION OF SAVINGS.


Equipmenit of Observatory.


Receipts.
12


Balance July I,   09..............
Paid Vouchers.........................
Balance June 30, I910...................


Total.
13
$ 829.58
$   829.5c
$ 2,340.25
2,340.25
$ 2,340.25


Disbursemnents
14
$    777.07


Total.
15
$  777.07
52.51
$  829.58


Eiquipmenltt to Elgignecring
Laboratory.


Balance July I, I909...................
Paid Vouchers........................
Balance June 30, I9I...................


$ 2,236.93


$ 2,236.93
103.32
$ 2,340.25




DECEMBER MEETING, 1910.


49


New Dental Building.                 Receipts
12
Balance July I, 1909............................ $
Paid Vouchers..............................
Balance June 30, 191 0.............
Addition to Observatory.
Balance July I, 9...........................
From State Treasurer.................      $,66.5
Paid Vouchers.........
Balance June 30, 1910..............
LEquipment New Dental Building.
Balance July I, I909........................
From State Treasurer.................. $        25o.00
Paid Vouchers........................
Balance  June  30,  I910........................
New Chemical Laboratory.
Balance July I, 1909..............
From State Treasurer.................. $141,C0o.00
Paid Vouchers.........................
Balance June 30, I9I.........................
Addition to Engitneering Building.
Balance July I, 909...................
From State Treasurer.................. $ 64,000o.o00
From   Other Sources...............        78.96
Paid Vouchers........................
Balance June 30, I9I.................
Alumni Memorial Building.
From State Treasurer................. $ 50,000.00
Paid Vouchers.........................
K                                      _ 




_


Total
I3
337.7I
337.71
718.07
I,616.5o; 2,334.57
$  275.53
250.00
$ 525.53
$ 4,7 6.75
141,000.00
I45,7I6.75
$15,710.03
$64,000o.oo
178.96
$79,888.99
$50,000.0o
$5o,ooo.oo00


I
f


Disbursem1ents
I4
290.13.........


I






$ 1,269.53...........




$.511.63






-


Total
15
$  290.I3
47.58
$  337.7I
$ 1,269.53
I,065.04
$ 2,334.57
$  511.63
13.90
$  525.53
134,907.87
io,8o8.88
I45,716.75
$66,534.45
$13,354.54
$79,888.99
$50,000.00
$50,000.00




$I34,907.87..........




$ 66,334.45
$ 5o,ooo.oc




50                    DBECEMBER MEETING, 1910.
Di sburseRepairs to Old Chemical                 Receipits   Total    Dis           Total
Lan~b 01>~~at01a~~Totclp              lents               Totlal
Laboratory.                                       13                    15
From  State Treasurer...............     $ 35,000.00 $35,000.00........
Paid Vouchers.................................                    9,3.25. $I9,30I.25
Balance June 30, 1910........................................              I5,698.75
$35,000.00             $35,000.00
Eye and Ear WIard.
From  State Treasurer                       33,o0oo.o0   $33,,000.00...........
Paid Vouchers.....................................  $ 25,424.74 $25,424.74
Balance  June  30, I9o0.....................................                 7,575.26
$325,o05.46. $33,oo.00o $301,253.60 $33,000.00
SPECIAL AND BUILDING FUNDS.
SUMMARY or BALANCES JUNE 30, 1910.
Psychopathic Ward Overdraft................................$ 9,464.63
Balance on hand June 30, I91I................................ 39,845.29-$49,309.92
Credit Balances.
Homeopathic Medical College................................     $   590I4
Equipment of Observatory....................................         52.51
Equipment of Engineering Laboratory...........................       03.32
New Dental Building.........................................         47.58
Addition to Observatory......................................       I,5.04
Fquipment of New Dental Building...........................          I3.90
New Chemical Laboratory.....................................      o,8o8.88
Addition to Engineering Building.                                 I3,354.54
Repairs to Old Chemical Laboratory.........................       15,698.75
Eye and Ear Ward...................       7,575.26-$49,309.92
*Pay Roll Homeopathic College Qeneral Fund.............          $9,42.70
Pay Roll Homleopathic College Special Account.................  6,157.30-$ 5,300.00
GIFT ANID TRUST FUNDS.
Under this hlead are included gifts and other funds which the Regents have
received from time to time from benefactors for special purposes. The new accounts
opened during the year are:   Chas. L. Freer gift for binding facsimlile D'euteronoimy
and Joshua manuscript-Furnulm    Bequest to Palmer Fund-Instructor Biological Stationl-Motor Bloat for Biological Station-Oliver Scholarship-Sitevens Classical Fellowship.
CONDENS1SD STATEMENT.
Total Funds July I, 1909.........................................         $299.237.60
Interest, Rentals, etc..                                                     138,827.30
New Funds, Contributions, etc.........................................53,03795
$491,102.85
Expenditures..............................$77,22.5
Balance in Funds Junle 30, 1910.................... 3I3,980.35
$49rT, o2.85




DECELMBER MEETING, 191o.
TABULATED STATE3MENT (DETAIILD).


5I


-


NA ME


i.




Adams Book Fund........
A. M. Todd Prize Fund....
Alice Freeman Palmer M-emorial........
Allopathic Hos. Fund......
American School at Rome..
A. B. Whittier Botany Fellowship.................
Ann Arbor Branch
Collegiate Alumne....
Bates Professorship Fund..
Buhl Classical Fellowship.
Buhl Library Fund........
B,en Greet Dramatic Fund..
Bronze Doors, Memorial
Building 
Binding Manuscript, Deuteronomy and Joshua....
Carnegie Fund Adv. of
Teaching.........
Class of '94 Scholarship....
Class of '97 Scholarship...
Class. of '98 Scholarship..
Class of '99 Law Fellowship
Class of '03 Memorial....
Coyl: Collection Library Fund
Ford-Messer Fund........
Fred'k Stearns & Co. Pharm.
Fellowship..............
Gas Association Fellowship
Goethe Fund............
Good Governmenlt Club.....
Humanistic Series Fund...
Homeop. Hos. Trust Fund..
Instructor Biological Station
James B. Angell Fund.....
L. H. Stone Sup. Loan Fund
M. J. Furnum Bequest.....
Marine Biological
Laboratory............
Morris Alumni Fund.......
Motor Boat Biological
Station.
Music Hall Fund.........
Newton VanderVeer Loan
Fund.............
Oliver Scholarship........
Observatory Library Book
Fund..................
Palmer Mlem. Free 'Bed
Fund.


Amoiunt
in Fund
July I, '09
$   684.83 
200.00
I,976.67
2.597.I7.45
4,231.78
257.49
I27,956.33
150.40
224.4I
298.8 
65o0.00
2,3:11.78
244.12
462.55
41.22
171.31
o10,068.72
20,524. I
51.20.I8
356.26
90o.69
398.81
2,859.42
6,253.00
50.00
3,897.70
1,738.49
494.13






Interest oi ContribuRentals    tions
I5.59.........
62.44     343.oc
T52.53.........
15.63.........87.........
8,172.40........
9.577    500o.oc
6.4o........
8.33     433.5(
9.77........


)


Income


I




~)


I... _

I






13,0.47
6.89
5.07
5.I3
603.74
1,418.57
I.6I
3.90
10.77
27.27
7.95
37,291.4I
70o0.11
297.23
7.5'0
223.02
52.71
14.95.o8


65o.oo
3,244.05
4.00
1,825.00
524.27
100.00
IOt3.OO
I, 000.00
50.00


Expendlitures
$   433.30
I00.00
675.97
200.00
5,I70.12
400.00
50.00
730.56
659.77
408.73
3,2,44.05
302.06
1,144.96
1,557.55.48
663.29
33,246.I4
50.oc


(Amount
in Fund
June 30, 'io
$   267.12
100.00
2,382.II
2,073.73.45
4,207.41
258.36
I30,958.6 
259.97
I8o.8I
10.08
241.27
2,442.25
251.01
467.62
41.22
I80.44
I o,370.40
20,797.71
52.81
271.53
366.55
928.96
267.74
4,045.27
I00.00
3,649.53
6,550.83
1,0o7.50
50.00
4,120.72
17.70
1,791.20
509.08
100.00
11.58


I


I50.01


o








I00.00
TO.00




I32.3C


1.50
15,365.13


I




597.26.






336.23


15,626.16




I




52


DECEMBER M1EETING, Irqo... _


NAMe




=


--------------




Parke, Davis & Co. Fund..
Peter White Fellowship
Fund Amer. History.....
Peter White Classical
Fellowship...........
Peter White Med. Library..
Phillips Scholarship Fund..
Pittsburg Alumni Scholarship Fund...............
Philo Parsons Fuid......
Philosophy Fellowship, Victoria Morris............
Philosophy Library, Victoria Morris...........
Refractor Fund, Observatory
Saginaw Valley Alumne
Association Schol. Fund.
Special Latin Fund........
Students' Lecture Assoc...
Seth Harrisoon Scholarship
Fund..............
Stevens Classical Fellowship
Treadw.ell Free Bed........
Univ. Hosp. Trust Fund..
Walter Crane Fund......:Walter Crane Fund
Property Account......
Warner Fund............
Williams Professorship
Fund..................
i:Williams Professorship.
Property Account.......
Win. Wilson, Jr., Pharm.
Fund..................
Woman's Gym. FundPeter White............
Woman's Professorship
F und...................
Webster Scholarship......
Total................
Alumni Moem. Bldg. Fund..
Grand Total..........


Amount
in Fund
July,/09
50.00
174.80
Io.54
54.47
1,571.98
3.93
145.12
50.00
i8.o6
949.86
243.97
22.62
I,4I6.09
30, I32.33
95.28
210.42
I0,744.6 
5.59
5,261.69
18,639.94.93
I IO.45
15,740.68
1,050.o0


Interest or
Rentals
5.30.45
1.I5
305.76.07
4.38.58
3,3.28
J.8o.66
60.15
I,712.50
53.37
83,598.42
6.04
455.40.r5
309.67
1,070.8I


Contributionls.........


Expenditures


Incomlie


=-.......... 21.00.........  150.0..O..o
400.0-0
5,0.00.........


400.00
24.64
341.93
I,6I5.00
300.00
147.57
78,605.72
50.00
50.00




300.00.........


Amount
in Fund
June 30,'IO
50.00
i8o.Io
I0.99
34.62
1,727.74
4.00
149.50
50.00
44.00
641.2I
245.77
23.28
I,476.24
30,229.83
I.o8
4,992.760
I66.46
I I,200.0I
5.74
5,521.36
I9,7i0.75.93
113.78
I6,657.77
I,I10.89
$3109,306.48
4,673.87
$3I3,98o.35


-


3.33
917.09
60.89


I


$292,123.O01 $138,7II.02 $ 9,683.82 $I31,2II.37
7,II4.59     116.28  43,354.I3   45,91I.I3
$299,237.60 $138,827.30 $53,0'37.95 $177,122.50


$The care of the Williams Professorship Piroperty Account and the Walter Crane
Property Account has been in the hands of Mr. George S. Field. A summary of the
report of Mr. Field is an appendix to the present report. (See Appendix.)




DECEMBER MEETING, 191o.                                  53
INVESTMENT DISTRIBUTION OF GIFT AND TRUST FUNDS.
Cash in   Loans or
NAMI                             Bank       Prop.      'Total
Ldams Book Fund.$                                    267.2.......... $     267.12
L. M. Todd Prize Fund..........................      Ioo.o..........       o0.00
dlice Freeman Palmer Memorial................     2,382.                 2,382. 11
dllopathic Hospital Fund...7373$ 2,000.00                                 2,073.73
Lmerican School at Rome........................ 45.45
B. B. Whittier Botany Fellowship...............,207.4I    3,o00.O0   4,207.41
~nn Arbor Branch Collegiate Alumnae...........        53.36     200.00      258.36
fates Professorship Fund...      7,796.83  II3,61.78  I30,958.6I
luhl Classical Fellowship........................25997.......
luhl Law Library Fundl.........................8.....8I,en Greet Dramatic Fund............o.8            o..........       I0.8
binding Manuscript, Dleuteronomy and Joshua.....     24.27..........       241.27
'lass of '94 Scholarship......................   942.25    1,500.00   2,442.25
'lass of '97 Scholarship.......................... 239.I    I2.00      251.01
',lass of '98 Scholarship........75.62                     292.00      467.62
'lass of '99 Scholarship..3.22                                   38.00      41.22
'lass of '03 Memorial............................180.44..........44
'oyl Collection Library Fund.................. 2,470.40   7,900.00  I0,370.40
'ord-Messer  Fund............................... 5,797.7I  I5,o0o.oc  20,797.71
4red'k Stearns & Co. Pharmacy Fellowship........      52.81..........       52.8
ras Association Fund...27.53..........     27.53
'oethe  Fund......................................  3 6.55..........     366.55
'ood Government Club......................   928.96..........      928.96
lumanistic Series Fund..........................267.74..........           26774
Iomeopathic Hospital Trust Fund.......    4,45.27..........     4,045.27
ames B. Angell Fund.............3,64953.........     34953
nstructor Biological Station.O.......00........      Ioo.co,. H. Stone Supplementary Loan Fund............     3,770.83   2,780.00    6,550.83
/I. J. Furnum Bequest........................    007... I,o 7.5      1,007.50
larine Biological Laboratory........0..........                  50.00
lorris Alumni Fund.............................    1,120.72   3,00.0      4,120 72
Iusic Hall Fund..............1,791.20..........,79.20
lotor Boat Biological Station....................     7.70                7.7
Tewton Van Der Verr Loan Fund..509...5.0 5o..............509.08
)liver Scholarship                                    IO..... 1.00........... IO0.0O
)bservatory Library Book Fund I...........58..58
'almer Mlemolrial Free Bed...................... 3,716.8o    11,909.36   15,626.16
'arke, Davis & Co. Fund......................... 50.00                 5o.00
'eter White Felllowship American History........       Io.......i..        I8. 
'eter White Classical Fellowship................      10.99...10.99
'eter W hite  Medlical Library.................34....62                    34.62
'hillips Scholarship Fund........................ 1,727.74..1,727.74
'ittsburg Alumni Scholarship....................      4.00                   4.00
'hilo Parsons Fund..................... 149.50..149.50
'hilosophy Fellowship, Victoria Morris.......... 50.00.....              5o.c
'hilosophy Library, Victoria Morris...........            44.00...   44
'efractor Fund, Observatory.....................64.2..64.2;.ag. Valley Alumnae Association Scholarship Fund..   40.77      205.00     24577;pecial Latin Fund.23.28                                                    23.28;tudents' Lectutre Association....................  16.54,314.70o   1,476.24;.eth Harrison Scholarship.......................  4,729.83  25,500.00   30,229.83
'readwell Free Bed........................................o




54                    DECEMBER        iEEiLTING, 1910.
Cash, in  Loans or
NAME                              Bank       Prop.      T;otal
University Hospital Trust Fund                        4,992.70               4,992.7
Walter Crane Fund                                      I66.46    11,20.01.O  II,366.4;
W arner  Fund...................................                               5.7
Williams Professorship Fund....................  1,521.36  23,710.75  25,232.11
Wm. Wilson, Jr., Pharm. Fund.......................93 
Woman's Gymnasium, Peter White...............           II3.78......         II3.7t
Woman's Professorship Fund....................       5,257.77   1,400.00   I6,657.7;
Webster Scholarship..............................89,oo.,.8
Total... $74,082.88 $235,223.60 $309,3o6.4&
Alumni Memorial Building Fund.................       4,673.87.........     4,673.87
Grand Total................................. $78,756.75 $235,223.60 $3I3,980.3;
$tAPPENDIX A.
WILLIAlVS PROFESSORSHIP FUND (PROPER'TY ACCOUN'T).
This is in the hands of Mr. George S. Field for management, and the summary oJ
his report from June 15, 1909, to June 15, I9Io, is as follows:
June 15, I9Io-Cash on hand........................$ 1,204.07
Real Estate Mortgages..............  I7,000.00
Real Estate........................    I,506.68-$I9,70o.75
Contra.
Total amount in valuation on hand at last report, June
15, I909...................................  $I8,639.94
Net gain in value for year ending June 15, I910.......  1,070.8I- $I9,710.75
tAPPENDIX      B.
WALTER CRANES FUND (PROPERTY ACCOUNT).
This is in the hands of Mr. George S. Field for management, and the summary of
his report from June 15, 1909, to June I5, I9IO, is as follows:
June 15, I9Io-Cash on hand......................$      277.23
Land Contracts....................$2,629.92-$20,9o7.5 $20,907.15
Contra.
Total amount in valuation on hand at last report, June
15, I910....................................... $21,973. 8
Less payments made by Field.......................  2,5.00  $i9,823.I8
Net gain in value for year ending June 15, 91o.......            I,083.97-$20,907.15
Total amount in valuation on hand June 15, 1910......            20,907.15
Subject to loan of....................             9,707.14
Total Walter Crane Property Account................             11,200.0I




JANUARY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, Janua'ry I9, I9I1. \
The Board met in the Regents' room a;t o1 A. M. Present, Regent Grant, Regent Codd, Regent Clements, Regent
Hubbbard, anld Regent Beal. _Absent, Regenit Knappen,
Regent Sawvyeir, Regent Leland, and Supeorin'tendelnt of Public Instruction Wlright.
The minutes of the meeting of December 21, I910, were
approved, on mlotilon of Regent Grant, in the form in which
they had been submitted to the Regents in proof.
The Secretary presented the following communication:STATE OF MICHIGAN,
Executive Office,
Lansing.
January II, I9II.
My Dear Sir:-On behalf of the Governolr, permit me
to notify yo'u that Mr. L. L. Hubbard, of Houghtllon, has
been appointed Regent of the University to succeed the
Honorable Chase S. Oisblolrn, resigned.
Very respectfully yours,
WILLIAAM R. OA'TIS,
Secretary to Governor.
Presidient HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
University of Miichiigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
On motion of Regent Grant, it was voted Ithat Regent
Hubbard should succeeld to the committee assignments of
fornmer Regent Osborn.
On motion of Regent Gran;t, Regent Beal was appointed
as the committee!of the Regents to certify to the University
voutdhers for the montih of December, and Regent Codd was.appointed to certify Ito the voudhers for the moniths of Jantary, Febaruary, and March.




56


J5AANUARY MiEETING, I9II.


On motion of Regent Codd, the expense bills of Regent
Knappen for $44.32 and of Regent Clements for $273.37
were approved.
On motilon 'of Regent Beal, the expense bill of Regent
Grant for $I39.32 was approved.
On moition of Regent Grant, the expense bills of former
Regent Osiborn for $360.30 and of Regent Leland for $35.91
were approved.
The Secretary read 'the following 'comnmunication:MICHIGAN HOIUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Lansing.
January II, I9II.
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Mich.
Gentlemen:-PIlelase p!ardon me foir what might be considiered an intrusion on your prerogative, but we aire much
linterested in having all appropriation bills blefore the Legisilature at as early a date as possible. Paist experience has
'taugh!t us thait whlerie these matters are delayed unctil the
closing weeks of the sessilon thelre is a possibility that in the
rush the appropriationis for things ithat are most needed may
be disallowed, whille things that are no!t so, essential may
be provided for.
The abovle suggestion is made in the kindliest spirit,
and expressing the hope that it will be received in the same
spirit, I beg to remain,
Velry truly yours,
C. J. CHAMBERS,
Chairman, Ways and Means Commlitltee.
Regent Grant, as chairman iof the commliittee, presented
the following report upo;n the maltter of "owuitside work" by
members of the     Faculty of the Department of Engineering:ANN ARBOR, Dec. 21, I9Io.
Yoiur commlittee, to whom was referred the commnunication,of thie Dean of the Department of Enginieierring,.under
daite of April 6, I9IO, relativ;e to the practice lof certain of
'the professorsl of the Depantmient of Enginieering engaging
in profess!itonal work outside of the University, and of the




JANVUARY MEETING, I9II.


57


use of offices and studies in the Enginee.ring Buildings in
connection with such work, beg leave to report as follows:I. It may be assumed thlat the membesrs of the teaaching staff would have a keen sensle of their responsibility to the University anld that their desire to,engage in outside work wiould not be primiarily
inspired by any spirit of comnte:rci.alism.  If it
were found true that the commner;cial spirit did
predomiinate in any case, then the Unliversity
might well dispense with: the services of that mian.
2. Teach,ers of engineering subjects not.only should be
plermictted to engaige in professional work outside
of their Unliversity work, but should be encour-,aged to, engage in such work, in s,o far as it can
add to, the effeetivleness of their work as teachers,
and does nlot impair thelir services to, thie University, and where such work relatres to problems of
publlic interest the special kinds 'of skill to be
found in such a teaching stlaff should, as far as
possible, b!e made avail'able to the public.
3. Teiachiersi engalging in  outsidle engin,eering  work
should have the approval of the Dean of the Departminent, and they should, at stiated intlervals, be
required to file! with th!e President a record of the
work done and of the time give n to it.
4. Teachers of engineering should be permitted to use
their offices or studies for their profiessional work
when such use dioles nolt interfere with Uniiversity
work.
The University should not be used as a means of
securing ioutside professsilo.nal work, but such' work
should be secured on thle merits of the man and
not because he teaches in the University.
JOHN H. GRANT,
GEo. P. CoDD,
WM. L. CLEMtN'TS,
Commiittee.
On motion of Regent Grant, the above report was approved and adopted by the Regents.
Oln motioin oof Regent Grant, Regent Be!al and Regent
Co'dd were const'itutted a Sub-committee on Legislation, with
power, to bring befo~re the Legislature such matters as mav
be deemed desirable.




58


JANUARY M1EETING, 9jII.


On motion, of Regent Codld, the following resolution vwas
passed:Resolved, That the matter o f paymlent of traveling.expense vouchers for trips outside the state on the UnivLersity's account shall be referred, with power, to the Sub —
comlmittee on Legislation.
On motion of Regenlt Clements, the folllolwing resolultion
wias adopted:Resolved, That the Secretary be instructled 'to inform
the proper committees of th;e Legislature thlat the University
will ask fo'r thle foll.owing approprliation's, folr which blills
will b'e promptly priepared and inltr;olduced:i. A Sciience Hlall at an,estimated coslt of $250,000.
2. A heating, p!owier, lighting and fire protection planilt,at ain 'estimatled colst of $305,000.
3. A   sto~relhou.sie forl University supplies at an estimatted cost of $20,000.
Upon motion o'f Regent Hubbard, the Board requested
the Sub-commltittee,on Legislation to prepare bills and have
the same introduced, coverin1g tilhe alove-mentiot nled approl)'priatio'ns.
Regent Beal reported for the conmmittee to \whicll had
been referred the question of a flait fee to be charged t'o all
University women for the use 'of Palmer Field, and on his
moti'on the board,adopted 'the followiTing rule:Resolved, That eacah womlialn student of the Univelrsity
shlall, begi.nning with the year I91I-1912, be charged an
annuail fee of $I.co, excep;t such womien:as may pay the regula.r Ba'r'bo'ur1 Gymnaslium fee, and that Palmier Field shall
bhe frele for tille use of all womien students 'of thie University.anld that the iproceedls of thle $i.oo fc: shall go to lthe mailntenianclie and ecquipmenit of the Fiield.
Regent Beal presented a request by the Professor olf
American History for an: additional appropriation, of $40. in
order (that the department mighit purchiase and insta;ll a la.n.
tern wi'th curtains and tscreen. This request was referred to
the Budclget Comnmittee,




fJANTUARY      Mi EETING, 1911. 


59


The President presented the following letter:STATE OF MICHIGAN,
Auditor General's Departmlent,
Lbansing.
Decelnber 15, 1910.
Hlon. H. B. I-IU'UCIINS,
President-, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, MAichigan.
Dear S'ir:-Enclosecd find stattemenct covcering 'the recent
exaxmina,ti:onl of thee accounts of 4Mir. Ge!org'e S. Baker, as
Treasurer of thle University.
This examninaeti'on takes up the accounts at thlie close of
bhusiniess Decelmb:er I2, I910. Page I is a con:densed s:ta!temeenlt sh!owling the conldition of the Trleasurer's accounts.
Pag'es 2 to I3, inclusive, arie auxiliary statements summarizved
upon page I.
Yo'u will noitice by page I that thle cash in the lhands of
tle Tlreasurier and tto his crecdit 'in thle sever'al banks an'd the
demand's -of institution accounts exactly agreie.
I have fo'und this toI be thle fact in all of my examinia:tions of the accounits of the University silnce \NMr. Baker
lias bleeal Treasurier.
Very lresplectfully,
ORAM1I, 1B3. FUl,I,dR,
Audlitor General.
Dictated by
Fred Z. Hamilton,
General Accountanlt.
On imoition of Regenlt IHutbblard, the letter was ordered
prinlted and the accompanying doiculments were ordered to
le filed with; the exihibits of the meeting.
On moltionl of Reg'ent Grant, the followlling resolutioin was
passed:-?Resolved..'l'at the purchase,   by the coiionlittee  in
cla.rgle, of one dozienl roses for ith e Slenlate Reception at Colmmlenlemltelt, June 29, I91O, ait the cost of onle dollar, is
hlereby approved.
On motion! of Re;gent Grant, tihe Secretary was directed
to authorize the,returnl of the entire fees plaid 'bl. Tames Wallace Thom:son, Jr., witihdrlawn from tlhe Depiartmenit of Taw.




60


JANUARY MEETING, I9II.


On motion of Regent Grant, the request for the return
of the entire amount of fees paid by Mr. B. B. Beshoar,
withdrawn from the Department of Law, was denied.
On motion of Regent Codd, a bill rendered by Mr. Albert
Kahn, foir $I,569. for architect's services on the addition to
the Engineering Building, wa;s referred to the Buildings
and Grounds Committee.
A letter was presented by the President from the Board
of Educatiorn of the Presbyterian    Church in the United
States, requesting information which could be 'secured by a
"religious or church census" of the students of the University.  On motion of Regent Grant, it wlas recorded as the
sense of the Board that as the Students' Christian Atssociation has collected such data within the University, theire was
no need ait plesent for gathering    additional statistics of
this sort.
Regent Beal presented the following communication, alnd
on h'is motion Profelssor Kelsey was authorized to make the
contract referred to, the same to be without financial responsibility on the plart of the University:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attentionl is invited' to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for january I9, I9rlI.
As I reported to the President some time ago, there
is an increasing demand for the publication, in book form,
of the Symposia on the Value of Humlanistic Studies
which have been published as Bulletins of the University, an,d Hion. D. M. Ferry, Jr., of Detroit, has gelnerously guaraznteed thle sum of ninie hundred do llars (of which
he will h.imself contribut.e a pa.rt) to make possible th,e publicatioln of th!e volume with the imprint of thle University.
The book will be entitled "Latin anld Greek in Almerican
Education, with Sympo'sia on the Value of Humantistic
Studies. Editted by Francis W. Kelsey."
Will you kindly ask the Board of Regents to aut-horize
me to exlecute with the Macmillan Company a contract for
this publication similar to thlat approved for the publication,of thle volumies of the University of Michigan Studies and
recorded in the Proloeedings of the Board of Regents for
June 5, 1908, pp. 271-272?
Nb explens'e to the Univrersity is involved; and this system of publication has two advantages, thiat thle Uniiversity




JANUARY MEETING, p9IU.                    6I
Library is thereby provided with volumes to be used for
exchange!and that the volumes bear. the imprint of the University in addition to that of the Macmillan Company as
salies agents. The Macmillan Company offered to extend thie
provisionsl of the contract cited to any volume recommenlded
by me.                Yours truly,
FRANCIS W. KELSEY.
Dated December 14, I9I0.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Secretary was directed to
expreiss to Mr. Ferry the thanks of the Regents for his generou's co-operation.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Secretary was directed to
currently secure information as to the payment of taxes on
the so-called Hunt landis in California.
On motion of Regent Beal, an additional assistant was
authorized to be employed in the dispensing room of the
Chemical Lablolratory, with sialary at the rate of $550. per
year. This is to, be on the "twelve months basis."
On motion, of Regent Beal, the Board authorized the
appointment of Mr. Harry Wolven Crane, A.B., as Assistant in Psychollogy for the present University year, with
conmpensation of $250. for the year.
Regent Beal, to whom the mnatter had been referred with
power, reported tlhat:he had allowed the request olf the
department of Romancel Languages for $60. to, provide a lecture by Monsieur Gustave Michlaut.
The President reported for the committee, consisting of
himself and the Budget Committee, that they had allowied the
proposed budget of the Summer Session of I9II at the sum
o'f $47,854.50, in accordance with the tabulation which he
presented 'and which will bhe found in the appendix of the
minutes olf the present meeting (see p:age 80).
On moltion of Regent Beal, the report wams approved and
the budget adolpted as presented.
Regent Beal, to, whom wlas referred at the meeting of
iDecemrber 21, the question of providing additional facilities
for the department of Pedagogy, proposed the following resolution, wbhich was adlopted:Resolved, That a committee of two regents be appolinted
'to confer with the Board of Education of the city of Ann
Arbor and determinle, if possible, whether a mutually advan



62


JANUARY MlEETING, 191..tageolus arrangemenite t can be miade betwleen the Board of
Estucation and the University, by which studenits in the
depa.rtmnent of Pedagogy may be afforded opportunities to
teach olr to obselrve teaching in the  nn A Arbor s:ch!ools.
On mloltion of Regent Clemnents, Regent Beal and Regent
Grant were alppointed as such,committee from the Regents.
On motion of Regent Beal, the following resolution wias
adopted:Resolved, That all sanitary analyses of drinking
water for state    institutions, municipalities, villages,
counties, and townships of the State of Michigan shall
be mlade without charge.
'This action changes in the respects stated the rulei of
the April meeting of 1898.     (Page 218.)
On n1motioni- of Regent Clezme'nts, the Board voted that a
proposed investment of University trust funds in bonds of
the city of Po!rtland, Oregon, should be referred to Regent
Bea.l, with power.
The following reslollutions, transsmitted by the Secretary
of the Atlhletic As!sociation of the University, were presented
to the Boaard by Regent Coddc:WHERR;AS, It -is the belief of tihe student members of
the Athletic Aissic.iationl thwa!t thley ar.e entitled to direct repIresentaitionl on the Board in Coontrol of Athletics, therefore, be it
Resolved, that it i;s the sentiment of this Associationl
that the student representatives on the Board in Control of
Athletics sholuld be chosen by a direct vote of the Association members, and ibe it further
Resolved,{ That it is the sentiment of this Association that
each.candidlate shoiuld be nomninated by,a petition signed by
not lesis!than fifty active student memibers' of the Association; and be it further
Resolved, That it is the earnest desire of the m.embers
of the Ath;letic Association that the honorable: Bolard of Regents provide for such nominatlion and' election; and be it
further
Resolved, Thialt nothing in the forego;ingl resolution shiall
le taken or con:strued to operate retr!oactively in any mialnner
vwhaatsuoever; and bie it further
Resolved, Tlhat thle Slecretary,of the Athletic Association
be insstruot.ed and he is hereby instructed to present this resolution to the hlonlorable Booard of Regents a;t their next
meeting.




JANUARY M/ETIMNG, I9ii.


63


On, lmotion 'of Regent Codd, the above request of the
Athletic Association was denied.
The Secretary presented the followinlg!colmmun:ication:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to,th'e following, for conlsidera-,tion if possible at yolur mleietingg called for January I9, I91I.
Thie follow:ing person;s have bleen certified ito.me.as
elected or appointed to memblership in the Board in Control
of Athletics.
I. Appointed by the respective Deans ias facu:lty elllmbers of thle Board:Profeessisor Allen S. TWhitney, by ithle Dean oif the
Deparntment of Literature, Scienoe, and thle
Arts.
Professor Herbert C. Sadiler, by thle Dean of
the Department,of Enginieering.
Profiess;or Evanis Hollbrolok, by the Dean, of the
Department of Law.
Doctor Dlean Wientw'orth Myers, by the Dean's
of the Departmlent o'f AMedicine anid Snirgery, Homoeopathic M edicarl College, School
of Pharmacy, and Colllege, of Dential' Surgery.
2. The following have been elected by the Board of
Directiors of the Athlletic Asisocia!tion as student
miembers of the Bolard in Controil: —
0. O. Carpenter
J. Fred Lawton
H. I. Haskints.
The above naames are submllitt.ed for record 'and for any
other actionl the Regents may wishi to:take.
SHTIRLIY W. SMITH.
December 19, 191o.
On motioln of Regent B'eal, the above appointmnents an,
elections were approved by the Regents.
On motion olf Regent Be:al, tlhe follolwing mnenmbers c
the Board were elected as nemnbers of the Board of Trustee
of tle State Psychoplathic Hospital:Regent Sawyer, Regent Grant, Regenlt Codd and Regent
I-I uibblarcd.
The President reported that he had received notice fro,
Mr. E. J'. W. Revell, attorney, of Baltimore, Maryland, E:




64


JANU4ARY MEETING, I9Ir.


ecutor of the last will and testament of the late Olctavia Williams Bates, to the effect that Miss Bates's will contained a
bequest of $20,000. to the library of the Department of Law,
and further that the University was made the residuary legatee, such residuum olf the estate to constitute a fund for the
use of the "library   of the  Literary Department."   The
President reported that he had also received a copy o'f the
will and th;at the estate was estimated at from $I25,000. to
$I5o,ooo., witih total bequests, including the $20,000oo. to the
Law Library, of, about $95,0oo. The President stated that
he had been notified that one oif the legatees proposed to
contest the will and that the Executor had retained a firm of
attorneys in behalf of othelr legatees to defend the document.
On motion oif Regent Clements, the President and Regent
Grant and Regent Codd were appointed a committee to look
after the interests o'f the University under this will.
On moltilon,of Regent Beal, Miss Ruth Ann M'cNamara
was granted a certificate oif graduation from the University
Hospital Training School for Nurses, in accordance.with the
recommendation of the Superintendent of the Hospital.
Regent Beal presented the following letter of resignation:
ANN ARBOR, January i8, 1911.
Mr. HARRY B. HUTCHINS,
P.resident, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Dear Sir:-Hlaving been offered the positio'n of State
Analys:t of the Stat'e;of Michigan, I herewith presenit to
you mly!resignation as Instructor in Pharmacy in the University of M'ichigan, to take effect Februlary I, I9II.
In presienting my resignation, I desire to express my
appreciation o'f the courtesies which have been extended to
me while cotnnectled with this University.
Respeotfully yours,
F. L. SHANNON,
Instructor in Pharmacy.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board accepted Mr. Shannon's resignation with regret.
On motion of Regent Peal, following the recolmmendation of' the Dean of the School of Pharmiacy, Mr. Kenneth
W. Tracy w'as.appointed Instructor in Pharmalcy for the




JANUARY MEETING, 1911.5


65


second semester to succeed Mr. Shannon at the same rate
of salary drawn lby Mr. Slhannuon, natmely, $,000o. per year,
and Mr. Charleis Hubert Ro'gers was appointed Assistant in
P'harmaicognosy and Botany 'for the second semester to take
the place vacated by Mr. Tracy at the same salary as Mr.
T.racy, $200. per year.
The President presented     the following   report lof the
Executive Committee:To the Honorable Board of Regents,:Yolur attention is invited to th;e followinig, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for January I9, I9II.
The foillowing is a report of the bu'sinesls of the Executive Conmmittee of this Board transacted since the last
mee:ting of the Board, December 21, I9Io.
At a meeting of the Commnittee held Janiuary II,
I. Mr. R. E;merslon, Engineer of Track Economics of
thie Atchlison, Topeka and Santa F.e Railway System, was appointed leceturer without pay, to, deliver five lectures before the students of Railway
Administration in,the Dieparitmnent of Literature,
Sci'ence, and the Arts. The expenruses incident to
Mr. Emerson's lecturves are to be b!orne out o!f the
unexpended part of the fund known      as the
"Adams Fund."
2. The Commnitttee aplproved of a requiest of Professor
C. H. Van Tyne to be authorized to:invitie Professor C. M. Andrews, Research Professor in
Yalle University, one of the distinguisllhed historical schoilars of the country, to deliver a lecture
to our stu'denlts in History, at an expensle not to,exceed $25.
All of which:is' respectful.ly submiit:ted.
H. B. HUTcHINs,
JUNIUS E. BEAL.
Dated January 13, I9II.
On motion olf Regent Grant, the report was accepted and
approved.
Regent Hubbard presented a communnication from          the
Dean. of the Departmlent of Engineering, transmitting the
resignation olf George E. Lewis as Tnstru'ctor in Descriptive
Geoime-try tol take effect at the end of the first semester and
recommending the appointment off Mr. Stanley Boa.rdman




66


JANUARY MEETING, I911.


Wiggins, B.S.,(E.E.), as Mr. Lewis's successor, at the
same salary, namely, $I,Ioo. per year. On Regent Hubbard's motion the resignation was accordingly accepted,
and the appointment made.
On mnotion lof Regent BEeal, the appointment of an additional Teaching Assistant in Chemical Engineering' at a
compensation of $200. fO!r the semester was authorized. This
appointment is not to cause any increase in the budget,
owing to the fact that Mr. Ware, originally appointed Instructor, was later granted a leave of absence and his place
filled by an Assistant a.t a lower salary.
The President presentedl the following. communication
from  an official of the Alummni Council of Colutmbia University:To the Hontorablie Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to.the followinlg, for conssidleration if possible at your meeting called for January 19, 191I.
Professor Rudolf Tombo, Jr., who is r1 Germany
as the representative of the Germanistic Society of
America and is lecturing on American Universities,
would like very much tb, secure large photographls of your
inlstitu,tion folr the exhhibit of photographs,, catalogue's, publicalti;ons,!etc., illustrative of American Unliversities and their
work, which is tol be deposited in the Roosevelt Room of
the University of Beerlin. Dr. Tombo writes that daily large
numbers of visitors attend this. exhibit and that it would be
to the advantage of any institution t.o.have attractive views
in the room. If you have any photographs suitable for displlay I. am sure Dr. Tonmlbo will appreciate ileceiving them.
Kindly send what you may have to him direct in care of
P.rofes'sor Wilhelllm  Paszkowski, Berlin; C 2, Platz am
Opern:hause, Germany.
Very truly yonurs,
REtUBEN R. MvIYMRS.
Dated New York, January 5, I91I.




JA.NUARY MEETING, 1911.


67


On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board took the
following action:Resolved, Thiat $ico. be appropriate tto be expended
under the authorilty of the Piresident and Secretary for.extending knowledge of the University by means of photographs, etc.
On motion of Regent Beal, the matter of the proposed
pavement of Geddes Ave. in front of University property
was referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee for
investigation and report.
Oln motion of Regent Beal, the proposed sale of a certain
small parcel ocf land near the University Hospital by John
Kamp was referred to the Medical Committee for investigation and report.
The Secretary presented the following report of the
Auditing Board, and on motion of Regent Codd, the expenditure was approved:To the Honiorablle Board of Regents:Your attention,is invited to;thie following, for consideration if possible ait your meeting called for January I9., I9II.
The Auditing Boa:rd beegs leave to report in thie matter
o.f a cabinet for.the Departmlent o'f Botany, which was referred t-o Ithie Aud!iting Board with power at the meeting,of thie Regents December 21, that tlhe making of this cabinet wlas approved by the Auditing Board at the estima.ted
aost of $I31I.70, whlich amount is ithierefore to be understood as added to the equipment budget of the Department
of Botany.
SHIRLtY W. SMI'TH.
Dated January 6, 1911.
Regent Codd presented the following written communication from the President:To the Hontorable Bolard of Regents:Your attention is invited to the folNlowing, for consideration if possible ait your meeting called for January I9, g19I.
Sleveral days ago my attention was called tio t:he fact
that a numnbeir of donationrs to our Museum have not been
mlade bLecause the intending donnors, regarded the Museum
as no longer a suiitable depository for their collections, and
that at least in onle case a colllection already deposited in
the Museum has been withdrawn because it could nrot be




68


JANUARY MEETING, I9II.
displayed. I at once sent for the head curator of the Museum and requested him to make to me a full 'Istatement
o'f the Miuseum situation. He hasl donle so, andt, iafter reading it, it seemned to me that his statement shlould be called
to yo!ur latetenltion. It is as follows:President HARRY B. HUTCHINS.
Dear Sir: —Permit me to call your 'attention. to the congested condition of the University Museum building.
The 20,713 ssqua.re feet of floor space.available in the
building is ioccupied as folltows:I,88o square feet, by lecture rolom used by several depairtments.
1,234 square feet, by a laboratory and offices used by
the Geological department.
I,88o square feet, by a work room, an office and a
reading rolom used by the Geological department.
4,994 Total uised by Geological deparitment for other
than Mtuseum purposes.
2,898 square feet by M/usic collection.
7,892 Total used for other than Musieum purposes.
8,936 square feet, by biological exhibits on second,
third, and fourth floors.
2,005 square feet, by geological exhibits.
i,880 square feet, by M'useum offices aind work rooms.
12,821 Total used for Museum purposes.
From Ithese figures it is seen that less than one-half oif
the building is at present available for the natural history
collections, and that mnore than one-foulth, is occupied by
the lecttre room  and geological offices, wvork rooms and
laboratories.
This condition is very unfortunate folr the Muliseum 'and
has caused considerable adverse criticism  on the part of
alumni and friends of the Ih'stitution.  The serious consequences that have riesulted from the lack of space are as
follows:
I. Intending donors no longer regard the Museum as
a suitable d'epository for their collections, as the following
instances show:
Mr. Charles A. Hughes (a former student of' the University) presented to the Museum laslt year the zoological




JANUARY MEETING,' I9II.


69


and anthropological collections of the Boyce Wlest African
Expedition.  Much ito Mr. Huighes' disappointment these
specimens have hiad to be stored, owing to -the lack of room
in which,to exhibit them.
Dean Hinsdale, of the Homceopathic Department, has
caused.a large part of his anlthropological collection to be
sent to Wisconsirn principally for the reason that we cannot.exhibit it. He has also offered,to, place on depo;sit with us
his a:luable collection of Indian baskets, but we have had
to refuse, owing to lack of space.
Lieutenant Eamles, of the United States Revenue Service, has recently (December, Igo9) visited Us with the idea
of presenting his very valuable Alaskan collections to the
Museum, but after seeing the small iamiount of room available refused ito give them to us, preferring to present them
to the University of Wisconsin.
Mr. Bryant Walker ('76) has repeatedly      offered to
give us a very valuable collection of Michigan mollusca
if we could find a place for it, but we have had to refuse.
Mr. A. W. Andrews, of Detroit,.has offered to present
us with a collection of several thousand specimens of Michiganl beetles, but w-e do not have th'e necessary room.
Severall former students of the University have offered
to make collections for us free of charge, but we have had
to inform them that we can only accept such material with
the understanding that it may be stored.
2. We ae e unable to accept gifts of money to secure
collections. During thle past three years the Museum has
received.gifts, in money amiounting to $625., for the purpose
of securing ma;terial. Any further gifts must be di'sclouraged until more room is available for the specimens..
'3. I/e   e are  nable to supply  material to secondary
schools. lit has been the policy of the Miuseum to assist thle
secondary schools as far as possible. To do this it is necessary to secure large coillections fromn the state. The average number of specimens obtained each year is about 35,000,
and nearly all of thi:s material is of scientific imsportance
and is in great part obtained in ithe state. Twelve schools
have been supplied with specimens during the past three
years, mostly at the request of teachers who are alumni
of the University. W;e have had to discontinue 6this work
and hlave during the past year refused six requests for
specimens from teachers in the state.




70


JANUARY       MEETING, 1911.
4. The seczrsing of 1material for research and exhibition
purposes tmust largely ce'ase. As a rule, only specimens that
can be used in research,or exhibiitsi are a!ccepted. That our
collectiolns are of considerable scientific vailue is shown
by the fact that they are constantly in use by investigators
both in the.University and in other in.stiltuti ons.  During
the past three years our material has been studied by men in
the United States Bio:logical Survey, Cornell University,,Columbia University, Carnegie Mluseum, Academy of Natural Sciencesi of Phiiladelphia, Museum  of Ciomparative
Zoology (Harvard University), University of Illinois, University of Chilcago, Paris: M;useum, Transylvania University, University of Tolronto, Field Museum tof Natural History (Chicago), and by numerous persons in the state but
not connected with the University.  That our collections
are invaluable 'as representative olf Michigan bi;ology  is
shown partly by the ablove list olf persons who use them,
partly by the fact that the Michigan Geological and Biological Survey hlas, made the Aiu:seum the depository of its
collections.
The lenlarging of our presen.t!exhibits 'is not only out
of the question;, owing to, the limited space, but the ones
now 'displayed must be restricted, in number so. that storage
room may be hlad for the yearly increase' in the collections.
I would call yolur attention to,the fact that at the M'arch
mleeting (910ol) the Board o f Regents requested the Michigan Geological and Biollogical Survey to assume the sulpport
of the M/usleum. iThis in no' way lessensl the aim  of the!Museum,to be a Universtiy Mius'eum, for by the terms of
the request the University is; to furnish the building, and
Ithe collections a:re to be available for University instruction
and research. Furthermore, the plan is being supported by
a number o'f alumni, who see in it a wiay to increase the,efficiency of the Museum. If ithenu the Geoilogical and Biological Survey.should take over the Museum,, the growth
oif the latter will' sitill be dependent upon the University to,the extent o.f permitting it 'to occupy all olf the piresent
building. In th'e req'uest to the Geologica4l and Biological
Survey,,the Regents stated that such parits of the building
ias 'are now used for purposes of instruction, shall revert to
the M\useum when oth'er provision, is made for the work
now carried' on in them. Until such provision is made little
more can bie done.
If ali of the present building were available for Museum
purposes it would be ample for our needs. If, holwever,




JANUARY MEETING, p911.


71


other provision cannot be nTadle for the Geology diepartment, an addition to be used for Mluseumn purposes would
be an excellent improvement. Such an addition could be
arranged for Ithe display of exhibits in a much more satisfactory manner than they can be showln in the present
building,:and.would coslt less thal a similar addition:arranged for class rooms and laboratori'es. If built on the west
side of the pr;esent building, extended to the line represented
by the front of the M;emorial Building, with an appropriate State Street enitranioe, an addition 80 feet wide would
cover 5,18O square feet, and if constructed of white pressed
brick would not,exceed $5o,oo0. in cost.  The Mluseum
buil'ding would then contain ample room for future growth
and exhibition hllls that would compare favor.ably with,those in other Museums.
Respectfully,
ALgXANDER G. RUTIHVN,
Head Curator of the Museum.
H. B. 'HUTCHINS.
Dated January 9, I9II.
On moltionl of Regent Codd, the Regents took the following action:
Resolved, That the Regents recognize and depllore the
crowdled condiitilon of the Museum and the resultant inability to,receive or properly care folr gifts, but that in view
of the fact that the Regents; are asking thle Ivegislature for
a Scienice Ha'll, the communication concerning.thle Museum
should for the present lie on tlhe,table.
The Secretary presented the following, which, on motion
of Regent Codd, was approved by the Board:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Yo:ur attention is invited, tlo the follo!wing, for.consideration if possible at your meeting called for January 19, I9II.
I beg to.report as a mnatter of record tha;t the Buildings and Grounds.Comlmlittee, to which, the matter was
referred' with power, has, directed that Conrad Lucas, janitor in the New  Engineering  Building, should be made
"Curator;an'd Mechanician in,the Engineering Laboratory"
at the salary of $8oo., beginning January I, I9II. This
meanis an increase in the budlget of $125. for the remainder




72


JANUARY M-EETING, I9.Ir.


of the year, Mr. Lucas' 'salary as janitor having been
$550. Mr. Lucas! will continue to do such janitor's w,ork
as may be required in the portion of the building to which
he was formlerly assigned'. That is, there is no increase in
the janitor service, or in expense, except for his increasedsalary.
SHIRLfY W. SMITH.
January 9, I91I.
Regent Codcld presented    the following   communication
from the Secretary, which was, on motion, referred to the
Buildings and Grounds Committee for further investigation
and repoirt:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Yo'ur attention is invited to the folloowing, for aconsideration if possible at your meeting called for January 19, I9II.
At the meeting of December 2I a request was received
from Professors D'Ooge and Kelsey for the construction
of shelving.to, holldl certain of the casts of the Arch of
'T;rajan. The Board voted that these casts should be stored
in boxes, on ithe supposition 'that this would be cheaper than
to build shelving.  Mr. Marks states that it would cost
more to make boxies for the casts than to 'buildd the shelves,
for 'they wou:ld still occupy the same cubical space and would
require fronit, back iand two ends for each cast, that is,
*there would be more material and more work required to
make ithe boxes than to make the shelves. S!omething will
have to be. done wit.h the casts, and apparently the construction of the shelving is the cheapest expedient.  Mr.
'Marks estimates the cost of the shelving at one hundred
fifty dollars.
SHIRmTY W. SMITH.
January 9, 1911.
The Secretary presented the following communication
from the Auditing B!oard, and, on motion of Regent Codd,
the reconmmendatio'ns of the Auditing Board were adopted
as the rules oif the Regents:To the Honorable Board 'of Regents:Your attention. is invited' to the folllowing, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for January 19, T9II.
The Auditing Board begs leave to recommend the following scale of charges to be made for the use of roosms
by student organizations, in University Hall, both the North




JANUARY MEETING, 1911.


73


and South Wings, and in the Law Building. This question
comes np in view of the recent action taken by the Board
for furnishing janitor service in these buildings in the
ev.ening. T'he Auditing Board recommends, after consultation with the Sutperintendent of Buildings and Grounds, the
following:
(I) To Siocieties for whose use a room is set aside
throughout the year, a $io. fee for the year.
(2)!To Societies requiring the use olf.a recitation room
or seminary room from' time to time, a fee of 50c per night,
with the understanding that 'the Auditing Board, consisting
of the Presidient, Treasurer and Secretary, may vary ithis
fee if goo'd and sufficient reasons shall be presented to the
Auditing Board by any society.
If this report mieets 'the approval of the Regents, we
suggest that it be made a matter of record.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
For the Auditing Board.
January Io, I9II.
The Secretary reported the appointment of Dr. Howard
B. Kin.yon as Assistant to the Prolfessor of Gynacology and
Obstetrics in the Homceopathic Medical College, vice Dr. A.
B. Smith, resigned, the resignation and appointment to, date
from Janua.ry I, I9I, and the appointment to extend to the
end of the present University year. On motion of Regent
Grant, this appointment was confirmed.
Regent Clements presented a comlmunication requesting
an appropriation of $300. to, secure a course 'of twelve lectures during the second semester by Mr. F. E. Matthes on
"The Methods of Tiopographic Mapping now, in use by the
United States Geological Survey."   This request was signed
by Professors W. H. Hobbs and Filibert Roth, Instructor
Au,brey Tealdi, and Deans Cooley and Reed. On motion of
Regent Clements, this request was referred to Regents Beal
and Hlubbard, with power.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Rev. J. Leslie French,
Ph.D., was appointed Instructor in Hellenistic Greek for the
second semester without salary.
On motion of Regent Beal, Miss Frances         Elizabeth
Nichols, A.B., Middlebury     College, A.M. University    of
Michigan, was appointed University Fellow in Rhetoric for
the second semester with a s.tipend of $I50. for the semester.




74


JANUARY MEETING, I9II.


Regent Beal,presented     the  following   communication
from  the Secretary olf the Graduate School, which was, on
motion,, referred to the Budget Committee:To the Honlorable Board oif Regents:Your attention is: invited' to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting!called for January I9, I9II.
The Administrative Council of the Graduate School
respectfully requests the transfer to, the account of I9II-I912
of $750., ithe unexpendedi balan!ce of the $3,000oo. appropriated
last June for -the establishment of University Fellowships.
Although a comparatively large number of graduate
students applied for these fellowships, there was a dearth
of first-class applicants, owing largely to, ithe fact that the
fellowships were established several months after appointments are made. in other universities.
T:he Council' endeavored to select and reconmmnend' only
the very best stud'ents for appointment to these fellowships, whichk accounts for the unexpended' balance. It is,
therefore,,urgently requested that the balance of $750. be
made available next year- in addition to )the regular appropriation of $3,000.
EDWARD H. KRAUS,
Secretary of the Graduate School.
January II, I9II.
Approved!: J. O. RrED, Dean.
Regent Codd     presented the!following   commluinication
from the:Death of the Department of Law:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for January 19, I9II.
At a meeting of the Law Facu.lty held Thursday, January 5, I9II, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That it is the sense of this Faculty
that the statute admitting graduates of law schools
of this state to the Michigan Bar without examinaltion by (the State Board of Examiners should
be amenlded so as to abolish such exemption,.
The Faculty is; of the opinionr that the abolition 'of this
exemption will tend toward better scholarship in the De-,partmen't of Lawl and will aid its -officers anid the State
Board of Law    Examiners, andi others interested in improving conditions, at the Bar, in maintaining a higher




JANUARY      MEETING, I9I.                 75
standard of admission. Our graduates are abundantly qualified to pass the state examinations. They are subjected in
our deparltment to more thorough and searching examinations than can possibly be given., under present conditions,
by any state board. Nevertheless, we feel that it will be a
stimulus to Michigan students to know that they must pass
the state bar examinations as well as our own, and that it
will strengthen the hands of the 'State Board of Examiners
by making their position and functions of greater implortance and dignity.
Res.pectfully submitted,
HENRY M. BATES,
Dean.
January 9, I9II.
On motion of Regent Codd, the action of the Law Faculty as.above stated was approved and the Sub-icomimittee
on Legislation! was instructed to prepare such a bill.
Regent Beal presented     the following   communication
from  the President of the Michigan State Association for
the Prevention and Relief -of Tuberculo,sis:To the Hlonorable Board of Regents:Your attention is. invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for January I9, I9II.
At the meeting of the 'Michigan State Association for
the Prevention and Relief of Tubercu1losis Dlecember 9,
I9IO, the following resolution was passed unanimoiusly:"Moved that the Board' of Regentsa o!f the
University of Michigan be asked to.encourage the
work of the Michigan Association for the Prevention and Relief o'f Tuberculosis by having appointed a group of tuberculosis lecturers, approved
by the Anti-Tuberculosis Association, admitted to.the University Extension Dlepartment of the University, and that a fixed sum  of ($25.) twentyfive dollars for each lecture given under the aus'pices of the Association be paid from the University Extension Fund of the University."
The reasons given for asking the Board of Regentsi to
add such University Extension lectures to the work of the
University are found in the increasing 'demand among the
citizens o'f the state for lectures of this kind, and also the
feeling existent in the state that the University should meet




76


JANUARY MEETING, 191r.


thie needs in this direction by conducting an edcucational
campaign on so vital a matter.
The officers of the State Association are asked constantly why the University does not follow the example set
by the Universify of Wisconsin, which has, for the last three
years, followed this plan of carrying on anti-tuberculosis
work as a part of its University EIxtension system with a
very great benefit to the citizens of the State of Wisconsin.
Anti-tuberculosis work is now being taken up by a number
of other state universities-th: e University *of Minnesota and
-others. The University of Pennsylvania has also taken over
the Phipps Institute for the Study and Plrevention of 'Tuberculosis. With such examples as these we feel that the
University o'f Michigan can lbe of very great service to the
citizens of the state by taking up such an important educational work and thereby bringing the people into closer
touch with the University to, its great benefit. We believe
that practical work of this kind, adapted' to the needs of
the people, will tend to remove some of the spirit of criticism and: discontent existent in the state against the University.                        A. S. WARTHIN,
President.
January I9, I9I1.
This communication was referred to the Medical Committee for investigation and report.
The following communication from       the Librarian was
presented by Regent Codd, and on.,his motion $400. was
granted itn accordance with the request:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to. the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for January 19, I9II.
The upper reading roomi in the General Library will
be ready for opening early in, the second semester., certainly
not later than March I. There are now over Io,o0oo books
arranged on the shelves of the alcoves. Thie room is intended for the use of 'advanced students and it will be
necessary to make provision for proper supervision and
attendance. I estimate that this service will cost $Ioo. per
month, on a basis of one assistant in charge at $700 per
year and one student assistant at fifteen cents per hour.;This would call for $4o0. for the remainder of the academic
year.




JANUARY MEE1TING, I9II.


77


Much of the service from the new stack will be handled
from this desk, e. g., medicine, learned societies and U. S.
'documents. Readers in these subjects will ordinarily be
sent tol the upper reading room,. In addition the roomn will
be used by advanced; students in history and literature,
and to some extent in economics.
cN'o one can be spared from. the present staff for this
new work. We are unable to meet many of the demands
made upon us now, and the opening of the new stack will
mean the moving of 2o00,o0o books.  Some good stout
physical help will be needed for this moving, which will
be spread over several months.
THEO. W. KOCH.
January II, 19I.
Regent Codd presented,a communication signed by Professor Hobbs, Professor Reighard and Dr. Ruthven, Curator
of the Museum, stating that Mr. Bryant Walker, of Detroit,
hadc promised to give $250. if the University would provide
an equal amount to cover the expenses of an expedition 'by
Junior Profes'sor E. C. Case into the Permian fossil beds of
Texas and New Mlexico during the coming summer for the
collection of fossils of extinct vertebrate animals.   The
material thus collected would be used for the purposes of
research and instruction;and would remain the property of
the University.  The appropriation is aslked to cover the
expenses, as Professor Case offers his services to the University as; collector free, provided hle is granted the right of
describing all the malterial,collected by him. On motion of
Regent Codd, the request was granted on the conditions
named, provided that the descriptions are made within a
reasonable time, and the Budget Committtee was requested
to include' $250. in the budget for I91-I912 for the purpose
stated.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of Professor Wenley and Dean Reed, Mr. Charles AM.
Perry, A.B., was appointed Instructor in Philosophly for
the academic year 19II-II912, vice Professor Alfred H.
Lloyd, whol had been granted leave of absence, M/r. Perry's
salary to be' paid by Professor Lloyd.




78


JANUARY MEETING, 1911.


On motion,of Regent Clements, the following resolution
was passed:Resolved, That it is the sense of the Regents that a trip
to the alumni associations of the Middle West and the Far
West shtould be made, if it is found that the expense can
be. provided.
Regent BReal reported that additional quarters for the
Forestry department had been arranged         for the   second
semester of the present year in the New          Engineering
Building.
The following    communication was      presented, and on
motion o!f Regent Clements, it was referred to the Executive
Committee, with power:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at yoiur meeting called for January I9, Ig9I.
The clerical work in the office of the Registrar has
been increased beyond the capacity of the present force
because the number of stu!dents in the Diepartment has
steadily grown.each year, because more modern and effective
method's are being introduced,, and because imlportant new
duties. have recently been imposed upon the Registrar and
his office. Fully one-half the time of the one clerk now
*emiployed':is given ulp to, the work of the Comlmittee on
Attendance.  TIhe new  system  o'f student advisers just
sanctioned by,the Faculty makes- extra clerical assistance
absolutely necessary.
I, therefore, request that an additional clerk be appointed in this office for the remainder of the year, to, be
paid at the rate of $600. per annum, with the understanding that the.clerical work of the Chairmnan of the Senate.Committee on Non-Athletic   Organizations and  of the
Comptroller and' Auditor of Student Organizations, as well
*as that lof the Chairmen of Advisers, shall be cared for
by this office.
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR G. HALL.
January 9, 1911.
Approved: J. O. RJED, Dean.




JANUARY MEETING, 1911.


79


On motion of Regent Clenments, the Board took the following action:Resolved, That the Executive Committee and the Secretary of the University be instructed to present at the
next meeting of the Board a statemnent of the office hours
kept by all the various clerical employees of the University, with any recommendations which they may regard as
desirable in the premises.
On motion of Regent Codd, the Board took the following action:Resolved, That th-e purchase of one swivel desk chair
for the office of the Treasurer of the University, under
Voucher No. I24813, at the cost of $4.75, is hereby
approved.
All the above actions were, unless otherwise expressly
stated, by unanimous vote.
On motion the Board adjourned to Io o'clock A. M., February 23.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




APPENDIX TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS
JANUARY 19, 1911
SUMMARY OF THE BUDGET FOR THE SUMMER SESSION
OF 1911




1911
Literature, Science, and the Arts...... $25,o08.oo


Engineering 
Medicine and Surgery..............
Law 
Pharm acy...........................
Homceopathic Medical College........
School of Library Methods..........
Biological Station.................
Administration...
Expenses 
Totals 
Deduct 


9,906.o0
3,307.50
3, 68.oo
475.00
625.00
2,305.00
I,050.00
2,000.00
$47,854.50


1910
$25,034.00
8,598.00
2,862.50
2,656.00
475.00
135.00
825.00
1,564.0o
1,050.00
2,000.00
$45,199.50


In-     Decrease  crease
$ I6
$1,308
445
512
135
2CO
741


$3,oo6
351
$2,655


$351


Net increase....................
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BUDGET
SESSION    OF 1911.


FOR THE SUMiMER


DEPARTMENNT 0r LITrRATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS.


In-    De1910   crease  crease


Greek-                                Hrs.
Junior Professor C. Bonner........ 64
Instructor F. F. Potter..............64
LatinProfessor F. W. Kelsey............ 64
Junior Pro-fessor C. L. Meader...... 64
Assistant Professor A. R. Crittenden 96
Instructor F. F. Potter............. 32


I9I I
$320
192


$512    $512


400
320
384
96


1,200    I,I68   $32




JANUARY MEETING, I9r-.                                  8I
In-     DeHIrs.     I911       I9IO   crease  crease
Romance LanguagesProfessor A. G. Canfield.......... 64      400
Junior Professor H. P. Thieme...... 64     320
Assistant Professor C. P. Wiagner.. 96      384
Instructor W. A. McLaughlin....... 96       288
Instructor G. L. Hamilton........... 64      92
1,584    1,520     64
GermanProfessor Max Winkler.........       64    400
Junior Professor T. Diekhoff........ 64     320
Jnnior Professor J. A. C. Hildner... 64    320
Assistant Professor W. W. Florer.. 64       256
Assistant Professor C. E. Eggert.... 64     256
Instructor J. W. Scholl............64     192
1,744    I,8o8            $64
EnglishProfessor I. N. Demmon........... 64       400
Junior Professor L. A. Strauss.....  64    320
Junior Professor J. S. Tatlock......  64    320
Professor S. F. Gingerich (Goshen
College)....................... 64      256
Instructor W. R. Humphreys........    64    192
1,488    I,200    288
RhetoricAssistant Professor T. E. Rankin...  96    384
Instructor J. R. Brumm...........  96   288
Instructor F. G. Tompkins.........    64    192
Assistant Clara Dunn.............           40
904      808      96
MusicNo. courses......................00                                       200
OratoryProfessor T. C. Trueblbod........     64    400
Instructor R. D. T. Hollister........ 96    288
688      576     I12
HistoryProfessor E. W. Dow..............32        200
Junior Professor A. L. Cross........ 32     i6o
Instructor F. M. Biacon............. 64    192
552      352     200




82                    JANUARY        MEETING, 1911.
In-     DeHrs.     1911        1910   crease crease
American HistoryProfessor C. H. Van Tyne.......     64     400
Professor -............ 32                  200
600      6oo
Political EEconomy and SociologyProfessor F. M. Taylor...........   32     200
Professor C. HI. Cooley............. 64    400
Instructor D. Friday............   64     192
Instructor C. E. Parry............64       192
Instructor S. M. Hamilton.........   64    192
I,176    1,280           104
Political ScienceProfessor J. S. Reeves.............. 64    400
400             400
PhilosophyProfessor R. MI. 'Wenley..........64      400
Instructor R. W. Sellars............64      92
Instructor C. B. Vibbert............ 64     192
Instructor J. F. Shepard.......... 96      288
Assistant H. W. Crane.............           20
1,192    1,312            120
EdiucationAssistant Professor C. O. Davis.... 96      384
Assistant Professor C. S. Berry...... 96   384
Assistant Professor F. S. Breed.....  96   384
Instructor G. L. Jackson............  96    288
1,440    1,376     64
MathematicsProfessor W. W. Beman.......... 64        400
Junior Professor W. B. Ford........ 64     320
Assistant Professor T. R. Runnig.-. o8    320
Assistant Professor P. Field...... So      320
Assistant Professor J. W. Bradshaw 64       256
Assistant Professor L. C. Karpinski 96      384
Instructor E. B. Escott............. 64    192
Instructor V. C. Poor............... 96     288


2,480   2,464    I6




JANUARY MEETING, I9pr.                                   83
In-     DeHirs.     I9II        1910   crease  crease
PlysicsProfessor J. 0. Reed..............    64    400
Professor K. E. Guthe.............    64    400
Assistant Professor A. W. Smith.....    96   384
As"sistant Professor W. D. HeInderson 96     384
Instructor ----....96 288
Instructor ----............96 288
Instructor -----.....32            96
2,24,0   2,240
ChemistryAssistant Professor D. M. Lichty.... 96      384
Assistant Professor   V. J. I-ale......  96  384
Assistant Professor W. G. Simeaton.. 96      384
Assistant Professor L. H. Cone..... 96      384
Instru'ctor H. N. Cole............. 96      288
Instructor R. J. Carney.............  96    288
Instructor C. J. West................ 64    192
Instructor R. K. McAlpine..........   96    288
Instructor -         --.......     96    288
Ten Assistants at $40..............          400
3,280    3,488            208
AstronomyProfessor W. J. Hussey............ 64       400
400      656             256
Mlineralogy and PetrographyProfessor E. H. Kraus..........   64     400
Instructor R. A. Smith............ 64    192
592      688             c,6
GeologyProfessor F. H-. '-I. Calhoun (Clemson
College)......................... 64      320
Assistant W. L. Perkins............           50
Excursion Funtd.................         25
395      363      32
ZoologyInstructor H. T. A. Hus........... 32        96
Instructor P. Okkelberg............. 32      96
Instructor G. n. Curtis............. 64      I92
Assistant..........................          75


459      747             288




84


JANUARY MEETING, 1911.


In-    De1910  crease crease


Hrs.      I91I


BotanyAssistant Professor J. B. Pollock.... 96
Instructor C. H. Kauffmann.........   64
Instructor H. T. A. Hus............64
Instructor C. E. Temple............ 96
Assistants 
Excursion Fund..
Physical TrainingDirector G. A. Mlay................ 64
Instructor G. L. Bigelow...........64
Total............................
Deduct...........................


384
192
I92
288
110
I4


I,I8O    1,228


320
192


512     448     64,oi8 $25,034 $1,368


48
$1,384
1,368
$ i6


$25


Net Decrease....................


DEPARTMEI'NT OF ENGINEERING.


English-                               Hrs.
Instructor H. P. Breitenbach........  96
FrenchAssistant Professor J. P. Bird..... 96
Instructor H. A. Kenyon............ 64


In-     De1911       191I    crease  crease
$288


$288


$288


384
I92


576      576


GermanJunior Professor W. H. Wait......64
Instructor W. F. Hauhart.......... 96


320
288


6o8     416  $192


DrawingJunior Professor H. J. Goulding.... 64
Instructor  J. R. Finch............... 96
Instructor H. L. Abbott............. 96
Instructor F. Thomas............... 96


320
288
288
288


1,184     1,184




JANUARY MEETING, 19Ii.


85
In-    DeI9I0 crease crease


Hrs.. 191I


SurveyingAssistant Professor H. B. MAerrick
(In charge of Engineering Camp)
Instructor H. T. Atwell (With extra
clerical duties)...................
Instructor John Schmiutz.......
Instructor Hugh Brodie............
Instructor C. 0. Carey.............
Instructor A. R. Bailey.........
Six Assistants at $I50 each..........
Civil EngineeringJunior Professor C. J. Tilden........ 64
Assistant Professor C. A. Ellis...... 96




450
300
288
288
z88
288
900


2,802   2,518    284


320
384


704      704


Mechanical EngineeringAssistant Professor J. A. Bursley... 96
Assistant Professor S. J. Zowski.... 96
Instructor W. F. Vernor...........96
Instructor E. T. Cope, 3rd........... 96
Electrical EngineeringAssistant Professor H. H. Higbie... 96
Assistant Professor R. D. Parker... 96
Instructor H. L. Tanner...........6
Instructor A. H. Lovell............ 95
Chemical EngineeringInstructor K. W. Zimmerschied..... 96


384
384
288
288


1,344    96o     384


384
384
288
288


1,344     864    480


288


288      320


$32


Marine EngineeringAssistant Professor E. M. Bragg.... 96
ArchitectureAssistant Professor ----------- 96


384


384     384


384
384
$9,9c6


384
$8,598


Totals...........................
Deduct.........................


$1,340
32
$1,308


$32


Net Increase.....................




86


JAiNUARY MEETING, 1911.
DEPARTMENT OF A'IMEDICINE AND SURGI1,ERY.


In-      De1911       191       crease   crease


Medicine-                       Hrs.
Professor A. W. Hewlett... 6        $300o.00
Instructor J. G. Van Zwaluwenburg.................90       202.50


SurgeryDr. C. G. Darling..........90
Dr. I. D. Loree............. 60
GynecologyInstructor                   90
Instructor                   90
Instructor ---               90
OphthalnmologyProfessor W. R. Parker and
Dr. G. Slocum............ 60
OtolaryngologyProfessor R. B. Canfield.... 6o
PathologyProfessor A. S. Warthin.... 6o
Instructor R. L. Dixon...... go
Vaccines and Serum TherapyDr. J. G. Cumming.......... 90
BacteriologyInstructor -90
Physiological ChemistryInstructor            -      90


II


270.00
135.00
202.50
202.50
202.50
240.00
240.00
300.00
202.50
202.5,0


4502,.50
405.00


$4o5.co   $97.50
405..00


607.50   607.50


240.00


240.00


240.00   462.50


222.50


502.50


375 00


127.50


202.50


202.50


202.50
2- 02.50


202.50


202.50


202.50    202.50


Instructor Dr. RE.c-. icCotter 90   202.50
202.50
Totals....................             $3,307.50
Deduct...................


202.50
$2,862.50


$667.50 $222.50
222.50
$445 00


Net Increase.............




JANUARY MIEETING, 19Ir.


87


Homceopathic Medical College...


no courses      $135.00
(I9II)        (19IO)


DEPARTM'lEN'T O1, LAWr.
In-    De1911      191.0  crease crease


Professor J. C. Knowlton.............
Professor V. H. Lane..............
Professor I-. L. Wilgus...............
Professor T. A. Bogle................
Professor R. E. Bunker...............
Professor J. L. Drake.................
Assistant Professor G. W. Stoner......
Assistant Professor R. W. Aigler......
Assistant Professor V. R. M1cLucas.....


$4oo
400
400
400
4oo
400
256
256
256
$3,168   $2,656


Total..............................


$512


SCHOOIL OF PHARMACY.


In-     Decrease crease


HIrs.
Professor J. O. S;chlotterbeck.......... 64
A ssistant.......................
Total..............................


191I
$400
75


i91I


$475     $475


SCHOOL OF LIBRARY MEmTHODS.
In-    De191I      191I   crease crease
Director T. W. Koch..................        $400
Instructor -      -..................... 
(Classification)
Instructor Miss Esther Smith..........         75
Instructor W. C. Hlollands............        50
lotal.                                $65$_                    21


II otal. -....... - - -., - - - - - - - -, - - - - - - -


3$6_-,r-  $825$_()




88


JANUARY       MEETING, 1911.
BIOLOGICAL STATION.


In-     De1911       I9o1   crease  crease


Staff-                                  Hrs.
Professor Jacob Reighard (With duties of Director)..................64
Assistant Professor F. Smith (University of Illinois)...................95
Assistant Professor H. A. Gleason.... 96
Asistan;t F. A. Loew................
Assistant........
I laborer, 8 weeks, at $1.25 per day
and board 
Total...........................


$450
384
384
50
50
92
$I,4IO    $859   $551


Equipment, Incidental and Current Expense

For incidental and current expense...
For equipment......................
Totals.............................


$565.33
328.67
$895    $705
$2,305  $I,564


$190
$74I


ADMINISTRATION.


In-    DeI91I       191o  crease  crease


Professor E. H. Kraus, Acting Dean
and Secretary of Graduate School..
Assistant Professor C. P. Wagner, Secretary, Literature, Science, and the
Arts................................
Assistant Professor J. P. Bird, Secretary,
Engineering........................
Professor A. S. Warthin, Secretary,
Medicine and Surgery..............
Professor E. C. Goddard, Secretary, Law
Assistant in General Library.......
Assistant in Law   Library.............


$350
200
100
100
200
75
25


Total............................


$I,050     I,050




JANTUARY MEETING, 1911.                                  89
G;NIRAI, EXP]ENSESS.!Tentative distribution, subject to change within the total amolunt:
5,000o Large Announcem ents..........................$ 300
75,00o A;bridged Announncemlents.......................     5O10
10,000 Law Announcements.............................       90
Advertising.........................................        325
Miss May E. Webster, salary as clerk, up to July I, 1911..   200
Clerical help, messengers, etc...........................    25
2  Receptions.......................................        75
Postage........................................50
Non-Resident Lecturers............................... 
P rinting..............................................   I
Incidentals...........................................       25
Total............................................$2,000




FEBRUARY MEETING
UNIVE1RSITY 0o  MIICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, February 23, 1911. 
The Board met in the Regents' room      at 10 o'clock
A. MA. Present, Regent Grant, Regent Clements, Regent
I-ubbard, Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal. Absent, Regent
Knappen, Regent Codd, Regent Leland and Superintendent of Public Instruction Ai1-ight.
The minutes of the meeting of January 19 were approved, as presented in proof, including a change in the
resolution concerning sanitary analyses (see page 62)
limiting the same to analyses of drinking water.
Representatives of the State Funeral Directors' Association appeared and Mr. W. D. Farley, of Battle Creek,
addressed the Board in favor of the establishment in the
University of instruction in embalming, calling attention
to the fact that the state at present demands an examination precedent to granting a license and also stating that
there are no schools of instruction except those carried
on by manufacturers as a portion of their business and
the courses of a few days' duration provided by associations of funeral directors themselves. I-le stated that the
Funeral Directors' Association in this state desired    a
place Where applicants might get required training in
sanitation, anatomy, bacteriology, chemistry, etc.   Following this presentation, the Board, on motion of Regent
Sawyer, passed the following resolution:Resolved, That thle Regents ask the Dean of the Department of M:edicine and Surgery to report a plan by which
the request of the State Funeral Directors' Association for
a short course in embalming and funeral directing in the
summer of 1912 and thereafter can be granted, and that if
such plan can be worked out satisfactorily and the expenses
can be met outtside of regular University funds, this Board
will approve such plan, for summer instruction; but that it
be distinctly understood' that this resolution does not contemplate the establishing now or in the future of a chair of
embalming.




92


FEBRUARY i/IEETING, Ip9r.


Professor ~Villiam J. Hussey appeared and addressed
the Board. Following Professor I-lussey's statement, on
motion of Regent Clements, the Board passed the following resolution:Resolvcd, That tile President be authorized to informl
the authorities of the National University of La Plata that,the University of Miclhigan accepts the principle of cooperation between the Observatories of the two Universities;
that it approves of the appointment of Professor 11lussey as
the Director of La Plata Obtservatory while rctalinlil  the
Directorship of the Observatory of the University of Michigan, alid that it agrees to aii approximlately equal ldivision
of Professor Hussey's timle between the two illsititutiols
while lie is serving as Director of both Obselrvatories, and
that the mlatter of Professor -Hussey' salary while on part
time be referred to the Filance alld Literarv Colimmittees
wAith power to adjust and inx same.
Regent Beal presented an        informal re)port on the
status of matters of interest to the University coming,
before the Legislature.
On motion of Regent Grant, the following resolution
was passed:
Resolvcd, That the President and Secretary be authlorized to have printed tel thousaind copies of a presentation
of the University's status and needs, and to send the same,
together with a letter from the President, to al1lumni and
citizens of the state, under letter postage, at an estilmated
cost of approximately $350., the same to be charged to the
appropriation in the budget for "Extending the Utsefulness
of the University."
Regent Sawyer reported that the Budget Committee
recommended an allowance of $40. for additional equipment for the department of American History, and on his
motion, this allowance was granted.
Regent Sawyer reported that no further action at
present seemed possible in the matter of the so-called
-Iunt lands.
President Hutchins made an informal report upon the
Octavia Bates will, stating the developments thus far in
the settlement of the estate under the will.




FEBRUARY MEETING, i911.


93


Regent Clements reported adversely in the matter of
paving Geddes Ave. in front of University property,
which report was accepted, on motion of Regent Sawyer,
and the Secretary was requested to return the petition
for this pavement to the interested parties.
On motion of Regent Clements, an expense of $150.
was authorized for providing shelving for storing the
casts of the Arch of Trajan in the Memorial Building.
Regent Beal reported that the committee, to which
the matter was referred with power, had made an allowance of $300. for the expense of twelve lectures on Topographical Mapping, by Mr. F. E. Matthes.
Regent Sawyer reported that the Executive Committee, to whom the question had been referred with power,
had allowed the expense of additional assistance for the
Registrar and the Committee on Non-Athletic Organizations, of $50. per month, as requested. This allowance
was reported as a temporary measure for thle balance of
this year.
Regent Beal reported that under the authority given
him at the meeting of January 19, he had authorized the
purchase- of and the Treasurer had purchased $25,000.
worth of 6% bonds of the city of Portland, Oregon, to
net the University approximately. 5%2 as investment
for University trust funds.
Ex-Regent Barbour appeared and addressed the Board
relative to a lot owned by the University on Woodward
Ave., in Detroit, between Canfield Ave. and Alexandrine
Ave. He suggested that a temporary building should be
erected so that income could be produced. After discussion, on motion of Regent Clements, the Board passed
the following resolution:Resolved, That the matter of making profitable use of
the University's lot on Woodward Ave., in the city of Detroit,
be referred to the Executive Committee for investigation
and report.
A communication was received through the President
from the Faculty of the IHomceopathic Medical College.
Following this communication, on motion of Regent
Grant, the Board voted that in the resolution appearing




94


FEBRUARY MIEEETIAG, i9Il-.


on page /13, for the word "work"         in the eighth    line
thereof should be sul)stituted the words "credit in a university or college."   'The revised resolution governing
admlission to the Homceopathic Medical College would
therefore read:Resolved, That in the year 1912, and thereafter until
further notice, an alditional year of preparatory work shall
'be) require(d of those who apply for admissioll to the
Homlceopathic.)epartmcnt as candi(laites t(or a degree; that
the newi requirc11emlt may be met )y presenting' the equivalent af an academical (1r a Iigh scihol courlse of fort
years, as undler the i resent reqtilirmenllts for admlission, and
one year of university or college credit in a university or
college approved by the Factulty of the D)plartment, or its
equivalent; that the Faculty of said D)epartmellt is permitted to announce that within a reasonable time after 1912
it may be expectel that a second yeari of university or college work may be added to the requirciments for admission
of those who iapply as candildates for a d(egrce.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resoluti(on
was adopted:1Resolv!cd, That Treasiurer George S. lIlaker be permiittied
to present a personal bond for tie approval of the Regenits,
instead of a l)ond of a surety companiy.
The Board thereupon adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board re-assembled at 2 p. A1. The samee members were present as at the morning session.
Professor Ilussey again appeared before the Board
and expressed the willingness of Mr. R. PI. Lamnont to
deed to the University twenty-six acres of land east of
the Observatory, p-rovided the Regcents will accept the
salne subject to a mortgage upon which Mr. lamont will
pay the balance due in two installments.       On motion of
Regent Clements, the       Board    adopted   the   followin,
resolution:Resolved, That the land, which has been purchased by
MIr. R. P. Lamont for the purpose of presentation to the
University, lbe accepted with the profound thanks of the
Board,




FEBRUARY MEETING, p191.                95
Regent Clements made an informal report on certain
property owned by the University and on the desirability
of acquiring other property adjacent thereto. Following
which report, on motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board
authorized the Buildings and Grounds Committee to purchase for the University out of University trust funds
the property known as the Ransom and Randolph lot on
North University Ave. in Ann Arbor at a price not to
exceed $7,000.
The purchase as above from the University Trust
Funds was authorized on the understanding that this
property is now producing an income of $528. per year,
and, further, that as soon as the property should cease to
produce a reasonable income, a transfer should be made
to the Trust Funds from the University's General Fund,
so that the income of the Trust Funds would not suffer.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Buildings and
Grounds Committee was authorized to secure options on
the so-called (1) Duffy, (2) Lowry, and (3) Allen lots in
the same locality.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That a committee, of whlich the President
shall be chairman, to consist of three nmembers of this
Board and *three members of the University Senate to b)e
appointed by the President, be raised for the purpose of
studying' the problem of graduate work in the University
and reporting a scheme of reorganization if such course
seems to the coummitfee to be wise.
In accordance with the- above resolution, the President
appointed Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal and Regent Hubbard as the Regent members of such committee, and
stated that the Senate members would be appointed after
further consideration.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board denied the
request to enroll as a M\ichigan student, Mr. M. 0.
Blakeslee, of the Homceopathic Medical College, who
had resided in the state of Michigan less than four
months at the time of registration.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board directed
that the matter of providing further accommodation for
*Changed to "five" instead of "three," meeting MIarch 23.  Seee p. 109.




96


FEBRUARY lMEETIN\G, i9II.


the household help at the University Hospital should be
referred to a committee composed of Regent Sawyer and
Regent Clements, with power.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the interest on the deposits of patients
at the hospitals of the University may h e used as a support
fund for indigent patients.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the purchase of fort-y poulnds of can ldy
bought for the patients of the UJniversity -Hospital last
Christmas at the cost of $7.20 is hereby approved, and the
bill for the same is ordered to he paid.
President Hutchins presented a letter from?M/Ir. William W. Cook, of New York City, in which he tendered a
subscription of $10,000. toward the proposed building for
the undergraduate women of the University. On motion
of Regent Sawyer, this gift was accepted with the thanks
of the Board, and the President was requested to inform
Mr. Cook of the gratitule of the Regents for his generous
gift.
The President informed the Board that a check fo$7,000. had been received as a portion of the proceeds of
the bequest of the late Emma J. Cole (see page 800 of
previous v\olume), and on motion of Regent Grant, the
following   resolution  of acceptance of the trust was
adopted:Resolve d, That we hereby haccept the trust lknown as
"The Emma J. Cole Fellowship tunid"' for the  oltanical
department of our University. The said fund to be invested
and controlled by our Board of Regents and the income to
be expended.under- the direction of a committee composed
of one Regent to be elected by the Regents from their
number, the Dean or Professor in charge of the Botanical
department of the University of M'ichigan and the President of the University. The said committee shall appoint
to the use and benefit of said fellowship fund in each year
a graduate student who is pursuing special studies in the
departmlent of Botany and has, in said department, given




FEBRUARKYI iJlEETIiNG, 1911.


97


evidence of distilnguished attainiments. During the time of
the enjoyment of said fellowship the inclumbent shall pursue
his studies at the University of MAichigan, or at such other
institution as said colmmittee shall determinle to best answer
1the needs and desires of the incumbent of said fellowship,for the pursuance of the study of botany. No student wvho
is financially able to continue his studies shall be eligible
to appointment to this fellowshiip. The said appointment is
to be made for one year only, but may, however, in the discretion of the said committee, be awarded to the same person
for a second year.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Treasurer was authorized to sign the following receipt as submitted by the
executor of the estate:RECrIVED OF F. Emery Tuttle, Executor of the Estate
of Emma J. Cole, deceased,, seven thousand (7,ooo.) dollars,
in trust, however, for the purpose of endowing a fellowship
in the Botanical department at the University of Michigan,
said fellowship to be known as the "Emma J. Cole Fellowship."  The said fund shall be invested and controlled by
the Regents, and the income to be expended under the direction of a committee composed of one Regent to be elected by
the Regents from their number, the Dean or Professor in
charge of the Botanical department of the University of M/ichigan, and the President of the University. The said committee shall appoint to the use and benefit of said fellowship
fund in each year a graduate student who is pursuing special
studies in the departmnent of Botany and has, in said department, given evidence of distinguished attainments. JDuring the time of the enjoymrnlt of said fellowship the incumbent shall pursue his studies at the University of lichigan,
or at such other institution as said committee shall determine to best answer the needs and desires of the incumbent
of said fellowship for the pursuance of the study of Botany.
No student who is financially able to continue his studies
shall be eligible to appointment to this fellowship. The said
appointment is to be made for one year only, but may,.
however, in the discretion of the said committee, be awarded
to the same person for a second year.
In part payment of bequest to the said "Emma J. Cole
Fellowship Fund."
Treasurer of Board of Regents,
University of Michigan.




98


FEBRUARY Ml/EETING, 191 1.


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Treasurer of the
University was authorized to investigate the value of the
mortgages and any other property remaining as a portion
of the residue of the Emma J. Cole estate, and was requested to report to the Board thereon.
Regent Beal presented a communication from      Mr.
C. 1I. Otis, Curator of the Botanical Garden, stating that
through the courtesy of Professor William Trelease, of
the Missouri Botanical Gardens, the University was in
receipt of a valuable collection of plants consisting of
over 130 different varieties, which collection had been
added to the stock in the greenhouse of the Botanical
Garden.
On motion of Reg-ent lBeal, this gift was accepted, and
the Secretary was directed to communicate the thanks
of the Board to the donor.
Dean Schlotterbeck gave notice that Messrs. Frederick Stearns & Co., of Detroit, had granted the sum of
$350. to continue scholarships in the School of Pharmacy
for the year 1910-1911.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, this gift was accepted,
and the Secretary was directed to express to Messrs.
Frederick Stearns & Co. the thanks of the Regents.
At the request of Dean Schlotterbeck, the following'
appointments to scholarships and assistantships were
made, namely,
Saul Greenbaum, holder of Frederick Stearns & Co.
Scholarship in Pharmacy, and: assistant without pay.
C. C. Glover, holder of Frederick Stearns & Co. Scholarship in Pharmacoguosy, and assistant without pay.
These appointments wAere made with the understanding that the amount of money which each appointee receives will be adjusted at the end of each month on the
basis of actual time devoted to the respective subjects
and duties in the laboratories, the same to be certified to
the Treasurer by Dean Schlotterbeck.
The President presented the following- statement from
Professor A. S. AWhitney:Somewhat over two years ago a bill creating a commission consisting of tie President of the University as chairman, the Superintendent of Public Instruction as secre



FEBRUOARY 1JJlEETING, 1911.                    99
tary, and the President of the Agricultural College as third
memler, to ha\ve charge of the inspection of the high
schools of this state, w\as passed by the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and by the
Board of Regents, and( recolnmendlced to the legislature for
their favorable consideration.
The Senate. Commlittee on Education approves of the
bill in all respects except as' to the following sentence in
Section 3, which reads: "At least one inspector shall be a
member of the Facutlty of literature, Science, and the Arts
of the University of Michigan.' The Commiiittee holds that
this sentence would prove embarrassing and likely to defeat
the measure, and is therefore lnwililllg to stand sponsor
for the bill.
At the meeting of the ILiterary Faculty last Mionday
night t was unanimoulsly recomnmend(ed that this sentence
be elilminated from the bill ald that such recommendation
he urged upon the Bioard of Regents.
If this action of the Faculty lmeets your approval I
wouldl respectfully recommendl that you ask for immediate
action in order that tlie bill may be presented to the legislatiure at the earliest possible miomenlt.
February 23, 191g.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board approved the
elimination of the-clause, as requested.
Tihe President presented the situation and prospects
in the departments of History and lie was informally
authorized to exercise his discretion in filling two prospective vacancies.
The President presented a       considerable number of
letters from western alumni associations requesting- that
they be visited by officers of the University. On motion
of Regent Grant, the matter of visits to the alumni associations in the' WAest was referred to the Executiive Committee, with power.
The President presented a letter from Mr. Charles L.
Freer, stating his pleasure at the receipt of the Regents
vote of thanks at the meeting of October 7.
The President presented the following copy of a contract made by Professor Kelseyv with the Macmillan Com



Goo


FEBRUARY M /lEETING, I91'.


pany, in accordance with the authority given him at the
meeting of January 19 (see page 60):This agreement entered into this tw'cnty-third dlay of
January, 191 I, by and 'between The M/acmillan Company,
of New York City, and Francis W. Kelsey, of Ann Arbor,
Michigan, WITrNESSE'rH:
The M\acmillan Company agrees to act as publisher for
a volume entitled "Latin and Greek in American Education," which shall appear also as a publication of the University of Michigan (though not in the series known as
University of Michigan Studies, HuImanistic Series) under
the following stipulations:I. The entire cost of publication shall be borne by
the said F. W. Kelsey, and The Macmillan Company shall
not be required to handle the volume or to carry it in stock.
2. The Macmillan Company shall include the title of
the volunme in its general catalogues as issued, in order that
intending subscribers and others may know that orders for
it may be forwarded to The    Macmillan  Company   for
execution.
3. The Macmillan Company shall forward to the Librarian of the University of Michigan any orders received
by it for the volume, accompanying such orders with cash
whenever it receives cash in payment.
4. In return for the advertising of the volume by The
Macmillan Company in its catalogues in the manner proposed, F. W. Kelsey agrees to print the imprint of The
'Macmillan.Company on the title page and outside cover as
publisher. H-e agrees also to print in the volume, without
charge to The Macmillan Company, except in exchange for
the advertising as.above stated, two pages of advertisements
of The Macmiillan Company's books.
Signed this twenty-third day of January, I9II.
(Signed') 'I-1-n:  MACMaIILrAN Cor1PANY,
By George P. Brett, President.
FRANCIS W. KEI,SEvY.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mr. George L. Canfield
was appointed non-resident lecturer in Admiralty Law in
the Department of Law, vice Judge Swan, of Detroit,
who has been unable to give these lectures for two years.
The appropriation of $350. for this lectureship is in the
budget.




FEBR UA4RY MEE 2G   TG, 1911.          101
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the request
of Dean Bates, the opening date of the Summer Session
in the Department of Law was changed from July 3 to
June 26.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the transfer of $175.
from the new equipment budget of the Department of
Ophthalmology to the current expense budget was
allowed.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of Dean Reed, the following were appointed instructors at the compensations named, for courses in the
removal of entrance conditions. The extra fees paid by
the students in these courses are sufficient to meet the
salaries stated.
Leuis C. Karpinski, Mathematics.............  $go
Louis  A. Hopkins,  Mathematics..............   go
Carl J. Coe, Mathematics.................... 9o
Daniel L. Rich, Physics...................... 36o
Otto C. Marckwardt, Preparatory English.... ISo
The Board having received a request from Professor
Albert A. Stanley that he be given leave of absence beginning M/ay 19 and extendini to June 12, in order that
he might be present, as President of the American Section, at the Fourth International Music Congress of the
International Music Society to be held in London May
29 to June 4, on motion of Regent Beal, such leave was
granted to Professor Stanley with the privilege of extending- the leave at his option for the balance of the
University year.
A request received from  Miss Rachael Benham, a
teacher in Ypsilanti High School, for permission to carry
three hours of work in the University and pay tuition in
a ratio of the amount of work taken to the amount usually
taken, was denied by the following vote:To deny the petition,-Regent Clemnents, Regent Hubbard, Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal.
To allow the pctition,-Regent Grant.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Medical Faculty, Dr. Charles W. Ed



102


FEBRIUAR1IY AllEETJE'ING, 1911.


munds was appointed Secretary of the Mledical Faculty
in place of Dr. Hluber, such appointment to date from
February 1, 1911, at the same salary, $200. per annum.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. Charles B. G.
deNancrede was appointed as a delagate from this University to the Council on Medical Education to be held
in Chicago on the 28th day of February. The delegate's
usual traveling expenses are to be paid by the University.
By the same motion, Dr. Charles \\V. Edmlunds was
appointed as alternate in case of Dr. deN ancrede's
inability to serve.
On motion of Reg'ent Sawyer, an allowance was mnade,
to be provided in next year's budget, of $200., for the purchase by Dean V. C. Vaughan, at the' International Hlygienic Exposition in Dresden during the coming summer,
figures and models for the teaching of Hygiene.
A communication was received from Superintendent
J. B. Draper of the University Hospital relative to various repairs desired at the hospital. This communication
covered certain matters acted tpo-: earlier in the meeting,
and the Board informally deferred action uponl the furthler
items mentioned.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized
the inclusion in the budget of the Department of Political
Economy of $167.50, the proceeds of laboratory fees
charged the students in that department.
A communication was received froll Messrs. L. D.
Carr and I-. H. Servis relative to a lot suitable for a site
for the proposed contagious disease hospital. As the city
election upon the hospital proposition has been deferred
until legal questions pertaining thereto can be settled, no
action was taken upon the communication of Mlessrs. Carr
and Servis.
The Secretary reported that in accordance with the
authority g'iven to the Finance Committee at the meeting of November 18 (see page 7), an arrangement lhad
bleen made by which the audit of the books of the University offices was to be made by Mr. D. W. Springer, a
certified public accountant, at an expense not to exceed
$200.




FEBRUARY        illEETIfANG,    91ir.


Io3


T'he following communllication was received from        the
Secreta.ry, and on motion of Regenlt lheal, the appointments certified were confirmedl:To the Honorable Board of Retgents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meetingl called for February
23, I911.
The following appointmlents have been made to assistantships, and are here submitted for approval and recordl.
No increase is made in the budget by any of these appointments.
Russell Claudius lu-ssey, as Assistant in Geology for
the second semester, vice R. E. Clark, resignred, at a compensation of $ioo. for the semester.
Willialn C. Mullendore, as Stenographer. to the Director
of the Chemical Laboratory, at a salary of $12.50 per month,
to date from January 23 and to extend to June 3o next, vice
Carol F. Walton, resigned.
Earl MWilliam Osgerbv, 13.Ch.E., as Teachlilng Assistant
in General Chemistry for the secodll semester, at the rate
of $4o0. per year, vice Lambert Thorp, resigned.
Lambert Thorp, B.S., as Laboratory Assistant in General Chemistry for the second semester, at the rate of'$ioo.
per year, vice Earl William Osgerby, resigned.
James D. Burby, Laboratory Assistant ill General Chemistry for the second. seml-ester, without salary, vice Lamtbert
Thorp, resigned.
Charles Newnian Dawe, Second Assistant to the Director of the Chemical Laboratory for the second semester,
without salary, vice Charles A. Kanter, resigned,
Mark Edson Putnam, Assistant iin Organic Chemistry
for the last six-tenthl s of the university year at the rate of
$2co. per annum, vice Albert B. Newman, resigned.   (Mr.
Newman's original appointment is recorded as "WVencel
A. Newman" owing to his name having been transmitted
incorrectly for appointment.)
Willis Lincoln Clark, Second Dispensing Assistant in
the Chemical Laboratory at the rate of $55o. per annum on
twelve months' basis, dating from January 30.
The title of Hugo Volz changed from Second Dispensing Assistant in the Chemiical Laboratory to Third Dispensing Assistant in the Chemical Laboratory.
Louis L. Tower, B.S., Teaching Assistant in Chemical Engineering, part time, for the second semester, at the
compensation of $50. for the semester.




to4


FEB.RUARY MlEETING, 1911r.


Frank Carl Damlskey, Assistant in Chemlical Enginleering for the second, semester, at $50. for the semester.
These two appoilntments last named are made under the
authorization by the Regents at the 'meeting of January 19
of a Teaching Assistant in Chemical Engineering at a salary of $200. for the semester. The Chemical Laboratory
report that they can get along with these two appointmentts
and ths.save $. thsave $o. the $200. authorized.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH.
February 13, 1911.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the Purchasing Departmelnt of the' University of Michigan be authorized to. purchase for said Department of the University, at a cost of $2.65, one coat and
lat rack.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board referred to tle
Budget Committee, with        power, the question      of the
proper compensation, if any be deemed required, for the
extra expense, if any, to which instructors at the engineering camp and the biological station are subject by
reason of being compelled to board at the camp instead
of at home.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of Acting Dean Kraus, the following appointments
were made to positions already created by the Summer
Session budget:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your lleeting called for February 23, 1911.
I respectfully recommend the following appointments for
the Sulmmner Session of I9II, all of which are provided for in
the budget adopted January 19, 1911.
American History-                        Hours   Salary
Professor J. L. Conger (Knox College)..32  $200.00
ChemistryInstructor C. W. Bedford..............96     288.o0
GynecologyInstructor N.. WHood................90     202.50
Instructor G. Kamperman.............  90     202.50
Instructor H. H. Cumnings............ go     202.50




FEBRUARY MEETING, i91".


105


BacteriologyInstructor C. A. Behrens............... 9  202.50
Physiological ChemistryInstructor W. A. Forsythe.............90   202.50
LawProfessor E. R. Sunderland (to succeed
Professor H. L. Wilgus, appointed at
the January meeting, but who has since
withdrawn)........................      00
Biolooical StationAssistant H. B. Baker..................     50.00
EDWARD H. KRXAUS,
Acting Dean of the Summer Session.
Eebruary 15, 1911.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. George B. Corless was
appointed Assistant in Mineralogy for the second semester of 1910-1911, to succeed Mr. M. P. Cogswell, resiogned,
at the salary of $50. for the semester.
A communication was received from Librarian Koch
requesting permission for Assistant F. L. D. Goodrich,
who had been granted leave of absence without salary,
to have this leave changed to absence with salary, he to
provide for all additional assistance required in the library
by reason of his absence, at his own expense. On motion
of Regent Clements, this communication, was referred to
the Executive Committee, with power.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Charles R. -Tolzinger,
A.B., was appointed Assistant in Zoology at the salary
of $300. per year, vice Mr. Stanley B. Fracker, resigned,
to date from February 1.
Regent Hubbard presented the following communication from Dean Cooley:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for 1February 23, 19II.
Professor John R. Allen has been invited by the Board
of Trustees. of Robert College, Constantinople, Turkey, to
take up the work of establishing an engineering school at
Robert College. If undertaken by Professor Allen, it will
involve his absence from the University for one year. HIe,
therefore, requests that he be granted a year's leave of absence, to begin at the end of the present college year.




ro6


oFEBRUARY MlEETING, I9"r.


1Ie furtlher requests that his salary be coltinued to) hill
whlile absent and that he be perm-itted to pay the salary of
a satisfactory substitute, it )eing his intention to delegate
his duties to Assistant Professor bIursliy, whose s:lary lie
would assume, together with wrhatever additional amount
may be necessary to cover any other dutiies that may devolve
on the substitute.
It is Professor Allen's intention, whlile abroald, to iieet
as many European engineers as possible and to famliliarize
himself with Eurolpean practice in engineering schools.
Inaslmuch as the invitation extendled to Professor AlIen1
is an honor to the University of Miclhiglan, and it is il accordance with the practice of the University to grant leave
of absence under such conditions, 1 take pleasure in recomminending that Professor Allein's -rquest be favorably coisidered by the Board.  Respectfully,
M. E. Coorfiv.
Otn motion of Regent -Hubbard, leave wxas granted to
Professor Allen for the University year 1911-1912, as
requested, with salary, he to provide satisfactorily at his
own expense for his work during his absence.
On motion of Reg'ent IHubbard, in accordance with
the rule under which leave of absence may be earned for
one year by teaching in four summer sessions without
drawing salary, leave of absence with salary as Assistant
Professor was granted to Assistant Professor James P.
Bird for the year 1911-1912,'in order that he may go
albroad for study and travel.
On motion of Rlegent Beal, the Board voted that Assistant Professor 0. C. Glaser, who        had taught two
summer.sessions without drawilng pay, be granted leave
of absence durling the University year 1911-1912 at half
salary as Assistant Professor.
The Secretary reported in the matter of the sale of
the Omaha property referred, with power, to a committee
composed of Regent Leland, Regent Beal and the Secretary, that the principal piece of property owned by the
University in Omaha under the Bates bequest, namely,
the so-called Hamilton Flats, had been sold to Joseph
Leahy at the price of $12,000.,-$5,000. cash and the balance on mortgage for $7,000. for five years at 5~2% interest, payable semi-annually, with the privilege of making




FEBRUIARY 1/MEETINGC, 191I1.


0o7


prior paynments.   I'he purchase price is lessened by tlle
agent's colnmission $350. and by a sum        not to exceed
$100. to cover action required to make titles technically
perfect in one or two instances.
On motion of Regent B1eal, the Board adopted the following resolution:Recsolzcd, That Professor Richarcd I-ludson.1)e reccomlmended to the Trustees of the Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching, for the normal retlirilng allowance.
On motion of Reglent Grant, the Bloard adopted the
followin- resolution:RlcsolzIved, That 1P rofessor 1Bradley \:artill T'llhoml)psoln h)e
rccommenldecd to the 'lTrustees of the Carnegie Foulndation
for the Advancement of Teaching, for tlhe normal retiring
allowance.
The following communlication was received from         the
Secretary, which, on motion       of lRegent Sawyer, was
accepted for record:To the H-onorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for conisi(elration if possible at your meetiing called for February 23, 19I.
Respectfully submitted as emergency business.
I beg to report that oil Mondlay, February 20, the University paid to the City one thotisand dlollars ($r:,ooo.) for
tile land included -iln l-iur(3l Street betweell Observatcry and
Fourteentl Streets, and, received a deed therefor which was
duly recorded. IThis payment was in accordance with the
resolutions of the Regents undelr which the negotiations
leading up to the transfer of the land were carried on,
and the sumt of one thousanld dollars ($i,o'Oo.) is therefore
to ble regarded as added to the lbudget for this year.
It is respectfully suggested that in order finally to complete the miatter authority bhe given at this meeting of the
Booard to transfer to the City the nortlhwest corner of the
Observatory grounds in accordc'ance with the resolution of
tie Regents taken at the nmeeting of) 0touber 7, 1910. (See
page 809.)
SHIRLTvY W. SAlMITH.
February 21, 19II.




io8


FEBRUARY Mi'EETING, I9II.


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the President and Secretary were authorized to make quit-claim deed to the
city of the northwest corner of the Observatory grounds
in accordance with the design prepared for the Regents
by Mr. 0. C. Simonds and adopted at the meeting of the
Regents October 7, 1910 (see page 809).
Regent Clements, following the meeting, requested
that his vote be recorded in the negative on the above
motion to authorize deed.
On motion of Regent Hlubbard, following the recommendation of Dean Mortimer E. Cooley, Mr. Clifford
Emmet Paine was appointed Assistant in Civil Engineering for the second semester at the rate of $200. per year
to succeed Mr. Russell B. Palmer, resigned.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Committee on the
Department of Medicine and Surgery was requested to
formulate a plan for the use of the interest on the
so-called Mary J. 1Furnum Fund (see page 626).
On motion of Regent Clements, the repairs account
allowance was increased by the sum of $17,000. to provide
for the present overdraft and for the estimated expense
during the remainder of the year.
On motion of Regent Clements, $9,000. was allowed
from the General Fund for the repairs on the General
Library Building.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, authority was given to
refund one-half of the annual fee to Miss Lilian M. Kuhn,
who withdrew from the University December 5, 1910,
provided she file with the University a physician's certificate of illness.
All the actions taken were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise specified.
On motion the Board adjourned to M[arch 23, 1911.
SHIRLEY ~N. SMITH,
Secretary.




MARCH MEETING
UNIVERSITY 01F AIICIIGAN, }
ANN ARBOR, March 23, 1911. )
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 10 A\. -M.
Present, Regent Grant, Regent Codd, Regent Clements,
Regent Hubbard, Regent Sawyer, and Regent 1Beal.
Absent, Superintendent of Public Instruction Wright,
Regent Knappen, and Regent Leland.
The minutes of the meeting of February 23 were corrected on page 95 to provide for five members from the
University Senate upon the committee to consider graduate work instead of three members from the Senate, as
originally provided. On motion of Regent Hubbard, the
minutes were approved as changed.
Regent Codd, chairman of the Sub-committee of the
Board in the matter of the payment of the traveling
expenses of officers of the University when traveling on
University business outside the state, reported that in
the judgment of the Committee, Attorney Henry M.
Campbell should be requested to bring to a hearing the
case of the Regents vs. The Auditor General, if in the
attorney's judgment it was wise to do so.
On motion of Regent Codd, the Board voted that the
attorney be requested to take such action, if deemed
advisable.
Regent Clements reported that on authority given
him at the meetingo of Februarv 23, the so-called Ransom
and Randolph lot had been purchased for the sum of
$6,500.
Dean Hinsdale and Dr. Atchison appeared and
addressed the Board relative to requests of attorneys
and other persons to inspect the hospital records. On
motion of Regent Sawyer, the Superintendent of the
Hospital was directed to see Professor Bunker, the coutn



IIO


MARCH M'IJETING, 191 f.


sel of the Board, and to act upon his advice in the particular case at issue, andT Professor Bunker was requested
to submit to the Board his opinion on the general subject
of opening such records.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That the incolme of the M\ary J. F1urnum
fund be applied to the purchase of apparatus for the study
of children's diseases.
Regent Beal presented a tentative agreement providing an arrangement between the Board of Education of
the City of Ann Arbor and the Regents by which students in the pedagogical courses of the University might
have facilities for the observation of teaching in the
schools of Ann Arbor.     On motion of Regent Sawyer,
the Board voted that the agreement proposed by Regent
Beal should be referred to the Budget Committee with
the understanding that if funds are available for the year
1911-1912, the Regents will approve such arrangement if
the same is agreed to by the tity Board of Education and
by Regent Beal and Regent Grant, the Committee of the
Regents.
The Medical Committee having reported the matter
of extension   lectures on anti-tuberculosis work     (see
pages 75-76), on motion of Regent Codd, the Board
adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That the Board of Regents heartily concurs
in the siuggestions and requests made by the Michigan State
Association for the Prevention and Relief of Tuberculosis,
and will be pleased to appoint members of the Miedical
Faculty on the nomination of the Association as lecturers
on this subject and to co-operate with the Association and
the State B.oard of Health in every possible way in this
work.
It is unfortunate, however, that no moneys are available from University funds to, provide for the expense of
this work of University Extension, and therefore be it
further resolved,. that the financial question involved be
referred to the Budget Committee with instructions to confer with the Association relative thereto and report to this
Board.




JIARClCLI 1/IJEElING, 1911.            III
()n motion of Regent Codd, the      oardcl adopted tle
following resolution:Resolved, That the Budget Committee be requestec to
include in the budget for 19II-I912, if funds are found available, not to exceed $Io,ooo. for the purposes of University
extension work.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution was adopted:
Resolved, That the Finance Committee and the Treasurer be requested to investigate the policies of investment
of other universities and to report to the Board upon the
policy pursued at such universities and at this University,
with suggestions as to the best general policy to be observed
in the investment of the trust funds of this University.
On motion of Regent Clements, a request for about
$200. allowance for additional shelving and other items
in the Memorial Building was referred to the Buildings
and Grounds Committee for investigation and report at
the next meeting.
Regent Beal presented a petition from      officers of
various societies of women students of the University
relative to the condition of the Woman's League rooms
in the Main Building, and on Regent Beal's motion, this
communication    was' referred   to  the  Buildings  and
Grounds Committee.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, requests received at
this meeting from the University H —lospital, for repairs,
were referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee,
with power.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board passed the
following resolution: —
Resolied, That hereafter communications to the Board
of Regents from the hospitals should come through the
regular channels.
The Secretary read a communication from Mr. A. -1.
Sambor, a student, relative to residence, and on motion
of Regent Sawyer, it was voted that Mr. Sambor should
be regarded as a resident of Michigan.




112


MiI2A]RCH MlfEETING, TIyI.


The President communicated to the Board the fact
that Mr. Henry Ford, of Detroit, had contributed $300.
as a debating testimonial to be divided equally among'
the six debaters who represent the University in the
intercollegiate dehates. On motion of Regent Codd, the
thanks of the Board were voted to Mr. Ford for his
generosity.
The   President presented     the  following   letter of
resignation of Assistant Professor Pearse:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your mieeting called for March 23,
I9II.
I herewith tender my resignation as Assistant Professor of Zoology and request that this be permitted to take
effect April I, I911. The reason I desire to leave at this
time is that I may take a position in the University of the
Philippines, where school begins June 12, I911. 'In order
to reach Manila in time it is necessary to leave San Francisco on April 5.     Respectfully,
A. S. PIxARS.
March 22, I9II.
On   motion   of Regent Codd, Professor         Pearse's
resignation was accepted, with regret, to take effect, as
requested, on April 1.
On motion of Regent Codd, following the recommendation of Professor Reighard and Dean Reed, the
Board appointed Mr. Aaron Franklin Shull as Acting'
Assistant Professor of Zoology from April 1 to the end
of the present 'University year, with salary at the rate
of $1,600. per annum.
The President presented the report of the Executive
Committee as follows, and on motion of Regent Sawyer,
the same was adopted and approved:To the Honorable Board of Regents: —
Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for M\arch 23, 1911.
At the last meeting of the Board the matter of providing
for visits to the Alumni Associations in the West was
referred with power to the Executive Committee. That




A/IJARCH;1TEE7TIAG, T91I1.


iI3


Committee begs leave to report that at a meeting; held
Saturday evening, AMarch 4, visits by Deans Vaughan and
Bates to the following associations were authorized, the
expenses to be paid out of money appropriated in the budget
of last year for "Extending the Usefulness of the University":Galesburg, Illinois; Des Moines, Iowa; Omaha, Nebraska; Lincoln, Nebraska; Wichita, Kansas; Oklahoma City;
Kansas City; St. Louis, Mlissouri; Springfield, Illinois.
Your Executive Committee at the same session also
granted the request of Librarian Koch that Mr. Goodrich,
an assistant in the library, who has been granted a leave
of absence without salary, should be allowed leave witl
salary with the understanding that he providie his own
substitute.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
WAInLT'ER H. S1ArYR,
JUNIUs E. BrAL,
H. B. HUTCHINS,
Executive Committee.
March 22, I91I.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation by the Faculty        of the College of Dental
Surgery, the degree of Doctor of:Dental Surg'ery was
conferred upon the following, in each case as of the class
of 1910:
Edward Bailey Douglas
Charles Frederic M\ellus
Merton Chester Souter
William Johnson Tremper
George Irvington Vetter
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, teachers' diplomas were
granted to Miss Florence Norton Curry and Mr. Clifford
Louis Guest.
On motion     of Regent Beal, following      the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the degree of Bachelor of
Science was conferred upon Mr. Carl Barney Nehls and
Mr. Walter MicCreary Taylor, as of the class of 1911.
On motion     of Regent Beal, following the       recom



114


i/MARICH MEETING, T9.1.


mendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the degree of Bachelor of
Arts was conferred upon the following', as of the class
of 1911, with one exception:Erma Augusta Bishop
Geraldine Princess Dilla
George Rex Green
Edith Florence Griffin-as of 19To
Rose Frances Norris M\artin
Forrest Day Matheson
Victor Romaine Pattengill
William Conrad Seipp, Jr.
George Wallace
Adelbert Merret Walsworth
Henry Lee W'enner, Jr.
Johannes Albertus Wiggers
Walter Edmund Henes
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Depjartment of En-ineeling, engineering     ciegrees were conferred upon the
following   persons, as of the class of 1911, with one
exception:Bachelor of C hemnical 1nginccring:Charles Andrew Kanter, A.B.
Elmer E. Stiff
Harry Clifford WVeirick
Bachelor of Mechanical E1gilzecril g:Harvey Frank Girvin
George William Winslow
Bachelor of Civil Engi eering:Curtis Beall Backus
Bachlclor of Science in Electrical Enlgileerig:John Wilkinson Fletcher, as of the class of 1910
Bachelor If Scienlce in. MIechanrical EnTgihneerig: —
Tracy Enos Geiger
Bachelor of Science,i Ein lgibieerin g:Joe MIagidsohn
Maurice James Quinn
Albert Charles Tucker
Bachelo.r of Mechalnical En gianeerinl g:David Way Allerdice
Bachelo-r of Science in Maarin le E'nginlcer1ing:Vladimir Beloborodoff




1MARCH MEETING, i rI J.


II5


On motion of Regent Codd, the Board allowed an
expenditure of $291. for the purchase of furniture for the
upper Reading Room in the General Library.
Regent Codd presented the following communication
from the Ann Arbor Art Association, and on his motion,
the request was granted:To thee Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for March 23, 191I.
The directors of the Ann Arbor Art Association,
through the undersigned committee, respectfully 'request
permission to hold the third annual exhibition of the Association in the Alumni Memorial Building. The dates proposed are May 9th to 2oth, inclusive. The exhibition will
consist of original water colors and oil paintings of
approved character. A fireproof gallery is necessary for
hanging works of this character. This year the large west
gallery would be sufficient for our purposes. It would be
desirable to keep the exhibition open for at least a few
evenings for the students and townspeople who are occupied
during the day.
The attendance at the exhibition of last year, held in
the  Memorial -Building  at the  time  of its opening,
was about 23,000. No' admission has been, charged to any
of these exhibitions, the funds of the Association being
derived from an aunuai membership fee of fifty cents.
The Art Association will bear the expense of shipping,
hanging and guarding the exhibits. Like the Choral Union,
the Art Association is made up of members of the University and citizens of Ann Arbor.' Both organizations claim to
stimulate interest in art among thle students and residents
of this city.
Eir MIL LORCH, President.
VWILRRED B. SHAW,.Secretary.
H. P. THIMIr,, Director.
THI']DOr\I, W. KOCH, Chairman.
Exhibition Committee.
March 15, I9II.
On motion of Regent.Codd, an appropriation of
$347.50 was made for the purpose of fitting up two rooms
on the upper floor of the General Library. The east room
is to be used as a reading room     for the Department of




I I6


M/6ARCH MEETING, 1911.


Medicine and Surgery, the current medical journals to
1)e made available there. 'The west room is to be used as
a seminary room for M ediaeval and Modern History.
Regent Codd presented a communication from the
Librarian, the Professor of Architecture, and the Library
Committee of the Department of Engineering requesting
the installation of the Architectural Iibrary in quarters
directly contiguous to the other work in Architecture.
'I'his request was referred to the Budget Committee with
favorable recommendation.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the action of the Board
permitting the Treasurer to furnish a personal bond
(see page 94) was reconsidered and rescinded.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that
the Treasurer be asked to furnish a surety bond as heretofore.
On motion of Regent Beal, it was voted that when
the Board adjourns, adjournment be to April 20.
'hereupon the B-oard took a recess for lunch.
AF'TERNOON SESSION
On reassembling there were present Regent Grant,
Reg'ent Clements,' Regent Hubbard, Regent Sawyer, and
Regent Beal. Absent, Superintendent Wright, Regent
Codd, Regent Knappen, and Regent Leland.
At the request of Regent Clements, Mr. Albert Kahn,
architect, of Detroit, appeared with preliminary sketches
for an auditorium. After considerable discussion, on
motion of Regent Sawyer, the Bloard adopted the following, resolution:Resolved, That plans be prepared by the Buildings and
Grounds Committee for an auditorium according' to the
sketches shown by Mr. Kahn, 125 feet hy 2oo feet, and also
for an adaptation of the samle buildinog to accomnmodlate
5,000 people; report to be made at the next meeting.
Regent Hubbard presented a request of Dean Coolev
for an additional sum of $475. for the buldget of the
lepartment of Mechanical Eno-ineering. On motion of
Regent Hubbard, this request was denied.




iMIARCH MEETING, -r9I.


Ii7


Regent l-eal presented a conmulnicationi from Dean
Reed relative to the expected resignation of Assistant
Professor Harrison S. Smalley. On motion of Regent
Beal, Dr. Smalley was promoted to a full. professorship
to begin with the college year 1911-1912 at the salary of
$2,500. per annum.
On motion of Regent Beal, tle following appointments for the Summer Session of 1911 were made at the
request of the Acting Dean:Physics.
Instructor D. L. Rich............ 96 hours  salary $28.
Instructor F. W. Colby........... 96          2 ".8.
Instructor W. W. Sleator........ 32  "    "    96.
Fine Arts.
Assistant Professor H. R. Cross.. 96  "   "   384.
(University of Illinois)
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board elected Ulrich
B. Phillips, Ph.D., of Tulane University, as Professor of
American History at the salary of $3,000. per annum, the
appointment to date from October 1 next.
On motion of Regent Clements, the matter of the
appointment of a Professor of History, as made necessary by the retirement of Professor Richard Hudson, was
referred to the President, with power.
On   motion  of Regent Hubbard, Mr. George B.
McConkey was appointed Smith, HI-inchman and Grylls
Scholar in Architecture for the present semester, with
the stipend of $100.
Regent Sawyer presented the following' report of the
'Treasurer in the matter of the Emma J. Cole estate,
including the accompanying' letter from the executor:To the H-onorable Board of Regents:Your attention is iiivited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meetillg called for March 23, I911.
At the last meeting of thle Board I was requested to
investigate the value of mortgages and property remaining
as portion of the residue of the Emma J. Cole Estate, and
I report as follows:



ii8            IM   RCH    MEETING, I91r.
I examined the inventory of the Emma J. Cole Estate
while in the Probate Court for Kent County, and find the
estate appraised at $28,012.27.
I interviewed Mr. F. Emery Tuttle, executor of the
estate, and find' he has settled with all legatees and devisees
tnder the will, except the University. He stated to me, and
has promised to corroborate the statement in writing, that
there is property undisposed of, being residuum belonging
to the University as follows:Ist. Real estate mortgage, $I,8oo.-J. Wormurest and
wife, 6%, covering   two   frame  stores  and
old frame house. This property is in a very
much run-down condition and a doubtful loan
at $:r,8oo.
2nd. Real estate mortgage, $2,8oo.-Hendricks Lipprink and wife, at 5/2%, covering two double
frame houses; property in fair condition.
The property covered by these mortgages is situate
about a half mile from  the center of the city of Grand'
Rapids. This last mortgage I would consider a fair loan.
3rd. Real estate mortgage, $I,700., covering a farm of
40 acres in Clinton County, two barns and an
8-room frame house on the place, 5/%. Mr.
Tuttle reports this as a fair loan.
4th. Two vacant lots in the city of Grand Rapids,
$125. and $200. each, making total $325.
5th. Three notes, viz.: Henry C. Smith, Alfred Shentz
and Henry Shentz, $ioo. each; no security. Mr.
Tuttle considers parties responsible-$300o.
6th. Beall mortgage paid, and money in hands of Mr.
Tuttle for the University, $6oo.
RECAPITULATION.
Amount turned over by Mr. Tuttle to the
University............................      $7,000.
Real estate mortgages as shown above, values
taken from inventory.................. $6,300.
Vacant lots, as above, values taken from
inventory.............................  325.
Notes.....................................  300.
Money held in trust........................  6oo.
Amount due University...................           7,525.
'otal..................................    $4,525.




MAlRCIH lMEETINAG, I91.


II9


This amount is figured upon the presumption that Mr.
Tuttle, executor, has settled with all other legatees and
devisees, and he assures me that he has and will write me
to that effect.
1Mr. Tuttle has not filed an account, as yet, as executor
in as much as one year has not elapsed. He is anxious,
however, to settle the estate before the year is up and file
his annual account as a final account, and to enable him to
do this and avoid the extension of his bond, he desires to
know whether the Regents will take assignments of the
above mortgages. He feels he can sell the real estate and
collect the notes, and turn that over to the Regents in cash.
GEORGE S. BAKIER, Treasurer.
March I6, i911.
GRAND RAPIDS, MIICH., M/arch 22, 1911.
MR. GrORGRI S. BAKIR,
Ann Arborl, Michigan.
Dear Mr. Bakerc:-In accordance with your suggestion,
although somewhat late, will state that we still have on our
inventory and undisposed of tlhe following assets, to-wit:Mortgages as follows:John Wormnest on property at crossing of Granville Ave. and G. R. and I Railroad.........$i,Soo.
I-I. Leppink on Lots IS and 19 of McConnell Subdivision, being on south side of Second Ave.
just west of Granville Ave., for............. 2,800.
F. E. Tuttle on N. ~ of N. 2 of S. E. 4 of Section I8 'I. 7 North Range 2 west, being in
Clinton County, near St. Johns, for......... 1,700.
And Real Estate as follows:
Lot 170, Bissell and Harlan Addition, City of
Grand Rapids, Michigan, being on the west
side  of  East  St.,  at..........................  $200.
Lot No. 5 of Nanninga, Oosting and Mieinlema
Addition to the City of Grand Rapids, Michigan, being on the east side of Thomas Ave.,
appraised at................................ 25.
Also hold a note given by myself to the estate for
$I,o6o., interest at 5%. This last paper can be
promllptly paid when the estate is ready to be
closed.




120


1 l ARCH 1MJEE TING, Q 191r.


Hlave hoped to close out another mortgage by this time
and make another remittance, but have not succeeded.
All the above will go to the "Emma J. Cole Fellowship," for there is enough in the bank to cover expense for
settlement of estate.
Think we have covered your request. If not, please
advVise us.    Very sincerely yours,
F. EMi-Rliy TuT'm'l, Exr.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that
the securities above mentioned should be accepted with
the understanding- that the note of the executor should be
paid in cash.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the:Arts, degrees were conferred and
teachers' diplomas granted as follows:Bachelor o-f Arts:Robert Ray Sattler
M aster of Arts:Florence Elizabeth Baker, A.B.
Anna Miary Burkheiser, A.B.
Teachers' Diplomzas: —
Geraldine Princess Dilla
Rose Frances Norris Martin
Nellie Elizabeth Shaver
Johannes Albertus Wiggers
Regent Sawyer presented the request of the Dean of
the College of Dental Surgery for an increase in the
allowance for supplies for the dental clinic, due to an
increase in the number of students working in the clinic
from  54 to 86, or an increase of more than 50%. On
motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board authorized a further
advance for this purpose of $2,100., the same being added
to the Dental Budget.
Regent Sawyer presented a request from the Professor of Physics for an addition to the budget of the department of Physics of $246. This request was. denied.
Regent Clements presented an estimate from        the
Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds relative to
repairs for the toilet rooms in the Main. Building, and on




All-1kCH  MEEIfTINIGf, J,9 II 2.


121


Regent Clements' motion, the Board voted that the
Buildings and Grounds Committee should be authorized
to have the necessary repairs and alterations made duringthe coming summer vacation, the expense to come from
the budget of 1911-1912.
On motion of Regent Grant, following the recommendation of the Homceopathic Medical Faculty, the
degree of Doctor of MIedicine was conferred upon Allen
Donald Rowe.
On motion of Regent Grant, the certificate of g-raduation from the Nurses' Training School,. in connection
with the University Hospital, was conferred upon Ielen
Irene Wilson and Natalie S. Farr.
On motion of Regent Grant, the certificate of graduation from the Training School for Nurses, in connection
with the Homoeopathic Hospital, was granted to Florence M. White and Ellen R. James.
On motion of Regent Grant, the H-omceopathic Hospital was allowed to expend from its budget the sum of
$30. for instruction in Massage, and the sum of $20. for
the expenses of Commencement exercises of the Nurses'
Training School.
Regent Sawyer presented the following communication from the Secretary, and on Regent Sawyer's motion,
the appointments were approved:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for March 23, I9II.
In accordance writh the authority given me in the resolutions adopting the budget (see page 724), the following
assistants have been appointed to salaries already provided
in the budget, and the names are transmitted for the approval
of the Board and for record.
James D. Burby, Teaching Assistant in General Chemistry, vice Glenn B. Britton, resigned to accept a commercial position, for the second semester of the present University year, at a compensation of two hundred fifty dollars for
the semester. This appointment supersedes Mr. Burby's
previous appointment as Laboratory Assistant in General
Chemistry without salary.




122


/JIARCI-IH MEETING, Io-.


Dr. W. L. Rhonehouse, Assistant to the Chair of
Ophthalmology and Oto-Laryngology, vice Dr. R. W. Ridge,
resigned, for the second semester of-the University year, at
the same salary, one hundred dollars for the semester. Dr.
Rhonehouse has been hospital interne and the.present
arrangement contemplates that he will continue to room in
the hospital though taking his meals outside, and will act as
chief hospital interne without extra compensation until Mr.
Leo F. Secrist, who is mlentioned below, obtains his diploma.
Mr. Leo F. Secrist, as hospital interne to succeed Dr.
W. L. Rhonehouse for the balance of the year ending June
30, I9II, with salary at the rate of $2oo. per year on 12
months' basis. Mr. Secrist is to room outside the hospital
until he obtains his diploma.
The above arrangement for the Homceopathic Hospital
was approved and requested by Dean Hinsdale.
SHIRLEY W. SMI''H.
March I5, I9II.
Regent Hubbard presented        a communication from
Dean Cooley requesting that when the budget of 1911 -1912 shall be considered, special attention shall be given
to the apportionment of the proceeds of the library fee
in the Department of Engineering. On motion of Regent
Hubbard, this communication was referred to the Budget
Committee.
All the above actions were, unless otherwise expressly
stated, by unanimous vote.
*The Board thereupon adjourned to 10 o'clock A. M.,
April 20, 1911.
SHIRLEY WT. SMI'I1H,
Secretary.


'rThe date of April 20 was later changed by agreement of the Regents to
April 14.




APRIL MEETING
UNIVERSITY O M1/IICHIGAN, i
ANN ARBOR, April I4, I91I. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 10 A. M. on
April 14th, the date of0 the meeting having been changed,
by mutual consent, from  the 20th as originally fixed.
Regent Benjamin S. Hanchett, appointed by the Governor
to succeed Regent Knappen, resigned, and Regent Harry
C. Bulkley, appointed by the Governor to succeed Regent
Codd, resigned, took their seats. In addition to Regent
Hanchett and Regent Bulkley, there were present Regent
Grant, Regent Clements, Regent Sawyer, and Regent Beal.
Absent, Regent Hubbard and Regent Leland and Superintendent Wright.
On motion of Regent Grant, the minutes of March 23
were approved as submitted to the members in proof, with
the addition of 'a note calling attention to the change in the
date fromn April 20 to April 14.
On motioln of Regent Clements, the Board approved the
final bill of Albert Kahn, architect, for the addition to the
New Engineering Building, on the basis of 32% upon the
general contract and extras amounting to $79,518.91 plus
an agreed figure of $17,872. for the heating, plumbing and
ventilating, this latter work 'having been done by the University, the sum oln which the architect is allowed percentage being $97,390.9I. The total amount of the architect's
fees allowed is therefore $3,408.68, out of which $2,000. has
already been paid.
On motion of Regent Beal, the committee appointed to
look into the offer to, sell to, the University the so-called
Kamp lands near the hospital was continued and requested
to secure a tax history of this parcel.
It was informally agreed that the matter of additional
quarters for hospital help should go over to, the next meeting, temporary measures being resorted to meanwhile.




124


APRIL MVEETING, 1911.


On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was passed:Resolved, That the purchase and installation of an electric pump for the Botanical Garden be authorized at an
estimated cost of $225., from the equipment budget of the
Botanical Garden, provided there is sufficient for the purpose in that budget plus receipts from the sale of hay,
grapes, etc.
The Secretary reported that he had been aAdvised lby the
Treasurers o'f Humboldt County and MVendocino County,
California, that there were no; Iback taxes against the socalled Hunt lands.
Regent Sawyer presented      the request of Professor
Reuben Peterson, approved by Dean Vaughan, that the
Board appropriate the sum of $250. for the printing, binding and postagge of reprints of the transactions olf the Clinical Society of the University of Michigani, in order that the
scientific work done at the University Hospital may be
placed at the disposal of the medical profession of the state
and that material may be at hand for securing exchanges
from scientific societies. On motion, of Regent Sawyer, an
allowance of $250. was made, as requested, for this purpolse.
On motion, of Regent Grant, the Board voted that the
Buildings and Grounds Committee should be instructed to
make the necessary repairs in the floor of the locker-roonm
of the Waterman Gymnasium during the coming summer
vacation.
Regent Bulkley reported in the matter of the payment
of the traveling expenses for trips outside the State, and
on motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That Regent Bulkley bhe requested to take up
the matter of payment of traveling expenses. of University
officials outside the state, and if possible get a favorable
opinion from the Attorney General; and if not possible,
then to proceed, if he deem best, to secure a hearing as soon
as advisable before the Supreme Court.




APRIL MEETING, 19IrI.


125


Professor Bunker, counsel of the Board, made the following report, which was accepted for record and for the
guidance of the Superintendents of the hospitals:ANN ARBOR,'April II, I9II.
To the Honorable, the Regents
of the University of Michigan:
Gentlemen:-In reference to the communication of your
Secretary, dated March 25 ultimo, requesting opinion as to
the proper course to be pursued "when requests are made by
attorneys or other outsiders for the opening of the records
of the hospitals," I beg leave to suggest, as I have heretofore advised persons connected with the hospitals, that such
records should not be published, that is, their contents
should not be disclosed to any person whomsoever except
under the order of a court of competent jurisdiction. I
would say that in no event should such records be produced
except upon a subpwona duces tecum, and even then their
contents should not be disclosed by their custodian unless
an order specially directing their disclosure should be made
by the court. I am not acquainted with the facts which
prompt the immediate inquiry of your honorable body, and
I may not therefore have touched the precise points upon
which you seek my opinion; if such be the case, I shall be
reedy to examine any.additional matters and confer with
you.              Respectfully submitted,
ROBT. E. BUNKER.
The Secretary presented a letter from    Mrl\1s. J. R. Wilkinson, of Ionia, asking whether the University would not.le able to p!ay the expenses of a faculty lecturer on the antituberculosis work.   Nlo action was taken oln this request.
Regent Sawyer presented a letter from Treasurer George
S. Baker on the subject of the investment of University
trust funds.  After the reading of such letter, on motion of
Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the following resolution:
Resolved, That beginning July I, 1911, the University
trust funds shall be invested as a whole and each fund shall
be credited each year with the pro rata income, for the specific purpose of such fund; cases where such investment is
contrary to the terms of the trust are excepted from the
above rule.




t26


APRIL MEETING, I91I.


On motion of Regent Clements, the Buildings and
Grounds Committee was authorized to expend on shelving
for caring for casts, etc., in the Memorial Building not to
exceed $250.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board voted an expenditure of not to exceed $300. for furniture (to be selected by
the Alumni Memorial Building Committee) for the northwest corner room on the main floor of the Memorial Building, this expenditure being authorized with the provision
that the Alumni Memorial Building Committee shall apply
$200. of its own funds for this purpose.
On motioni of Regent Beal, the Buildings and Grounds
Committee was authorized to, provide a fireproof rolom for
the keeping of plans of University grounds and buildings
and specifications of buildings, ietc., the cost of fitting up
such room not to exceed $200.
On motion of Regent.Sawyer, folllowing the report by
Regent Clements, the Board authorized the rewiring of the
stack room of the General Library at a cost of a:pproximately $300.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Buildings and Grounds
Committee was authorized to do such painting ais might in
the judgment of the Committee be required, in the stack
rooms of the General Library, this expense to be charged to
the General Repairs Account.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed by the
President to recast the Standing Committees of the Regents.
The President thereupon appointed Regent Beal, Regent
Sawyer, and Regent Grant.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board recognized the
physician's certificate, filed by Miss Lilian. M. Kuhn, as
complying with. the requirement, under which one-half her
annual fee would be returned. (See page Io8.)
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board adopted the
following resolution:Resolved, That hereafter. it shall be forbidden to make
or cause to be made any keys to University buildings except
on the order of the Superintendent of Buildings and
Grounds, or of the President, or of the Secretary.




APRIL MEETING, 1911.                     I27
Regent Beal reported informally on legislative matters.
The President presented letters of acceptance of election
from  Professor Harrison S. Smalley, Professor Ulrich B.
Phillips and Acting Assistant Professor Aaron Franklin
Shull.
The President made an informal report of progress in
the settlement of the Octavia Bates will and filed with the
Secretary letters o'f March 27th and April 5th from     the
executor of the will, together with an inventory of the real
estate and the debts olf the late Miss Bates.
On. motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the custodian of the Memorial Building
shall be responsible to and. under the direction of Secretary
S. W. Smith.
The Secretary read a communication from      Mr. C. H.
Otis, Curator of the Botanical Garden, requesting permission to pay a salary.of $70. per month for a gardener
instead of $50., the amount formerly paid.    On motion of
Regent Clements, this request was referred to the Committee on the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
with power.
An informal discussion.of the subject of. University
extension took place, following which the Board took a
recess until 2:I5 P. M.
AFTERNOON SESSION
When the Board reassembled there were present the
same members as at the morning session.
On motion o;f Regent Grant, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, 'That the Executive Committee be requested
to formulate a plan of action, for adoption by this Board,
for the establishment of a system of University extension
work, so that the members of the faculties of the University
may become available to the people of the state for.service
at farmers' institutes, educational and. lecture associations,
literary and other clubs, or organizations,* or other bodies
ittenJding to organtize, for the advancement of education, and
for the service of municipalities.
*The words in italics were inserted as a correction at the meeting of May 25.




I28


APRIL MEETING, 1911.


~On motion of Regent Sawyer, the two following resolhutions were adopted:Resolved, That Professor W. J. Husseybe granted leave
of absence as the necessities of the agreement with the University of La Plata require, his compensation remaining as
at present, with the privilege of assigning the Observatory
residence to the Assistant Director during his absence.
Resolved, That Dr. R. H. Curtiss be mIade Junior Professor of Astronomy and Assistant Director of the Observatory, at a salary of $2,2001., change in title as Assistant
Director to take effect as soon as Professor Hussey leaves,
change in salary to take effect with beginning of University
year I9II-I912.
The President presented letters from    Professor Hussey
to the Regents and from     Mr. R. P. Lamont to Professor
Hussey, transmitting a deed, executed'by Robert P. Lamo'nt
and Helen Gertrude Lamont, his wife, to some twenty-six
acres of land adjacent to the Observatory grolund, in a.ccordance with the resolution of the Bo!ard appearing at the bottom  of page 94, expressing the willingness of the Regents
to accept such gift.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Standing Committees of
the Board were recast as follows:Executivie.-The President, Regents Beal and Sawyer.
Finance.-Regents Leland and Sawyer.
Literary Department, Sumimexr School atand Athletics.Regents Beal and HIubbard.
Engineering Dcpartmenlt.-Regents Hubbard and Grant.
Medical, Dcntal anld Pharmacenutical Departm 1ents.-Regents Sawyer and Beal.
Lazw Departlment.-Regents Grant and Bulkley.
Holmoopathic College.-Regents Hanchett and Leland.
Library, Museumt and Memorial Hall.-Regents Bulkley and Clements.
BBuildings and G1rounds.-Regents Clements and HTanchett.
Mr. Al-bert Kahn, of Detroit, appeared and presented
additional preliminary sketches for an auditorium.       After




APRIL MEETING, i9 I.


129


Mr. Kahn's withdrawal, Regent Sawyer offered the following resolution, which was adopted:Resolved, That the Buildings and Grounds Committee
be empowered to make a contract with Albert Kahn for furnishing plans and specifications for an auditorium building
at a cost of not to exceed $230,00oo. for construction and
architect's fees, including superintendence and architect's
supervision.
On nmotion of Regent Sawyer, the request of Dr. R. B.
Canfield for leave of absence, from May 20 until October 6,
was granted, with the understanding that all Dr. Canfield's
lectures would be, finished iby the time of his leaving and
that the other work in his department would bhe cared folr by
a competent instructor.
Regent Beal presented the request of Professor Whitney
for leave of absence for Assistant Professor of Education
C. S. Berry, in order that Dr. Berry might engage in practical clinical study of the teaching of backward and defective children at an ealstern institution for this wolrk.  On
motion of Regent Beal, leave of absence was granted during
the months. olf May and June, with the understa.nding that
Dr. Berry's duties at the University would be performed by
other members of the staff of the department of education.
A communication was received from the officers of the
Students' Lecture Association requesting a loan to the Association from a scholarship fund previously established by
the Association, the lo1an being desired to meet a deficit
arising in the past two years. No action was taken on this
request.
On motion of Regent Grant, Regent Hanchett was
appointed as the Regent member of the committee to have
charge of the administration of the Emma. J. Cole Fellolwship in the department of Botany.
On motion of Regent Grant, following a communication
from the Secretary of the Graduate School, the following
resolution was adoptled:Resolved, That the Budget Committee be instructed to
place $3,000. in the budget of 1911-1912 for University fellowships.




I30


APRIL MEETING, I9Ii.


A communication was received from       George S. Baker,
Treasurer, relative to the construction of fire- and burglarproof accommodations for the.:-oney and valuable papers
intrusted to the keeping of the Treasurer.    No action upon
this request was taken at this meeting.
Tlhe Secretary reported that Mr. iD. V. Parsons, Assistant Purchasing Agent, had stated his intention of resigning,
and,on motion off.Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the Secretary be authorized to recommend to the Board for appointment a candidate for the
position of Purchasing Agent.
The following communication was received from          the
Secretary, and on motion of Regent Sawyer, the appointments were approved and confirmed:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for April 14, I9II.
In accordance with the authority given mie when the
present year's budget was adopted (see page 724), the following Assistants have been appointed to positions provided
for in the budget, and the names are transmitted for the
approval of the Board and for record.
Don D. Davis, as Assistant in Surveying, to succeed
Mr. Alex N. Lund, the appointment taking effect MVarch 17,
with compensation at the rate of $50. for the semester. This
gives Mr. 'Lund payment for 5/19 of the semester and Mr.
Davis for I4/I9, there being I9 weeks in the semester.
Mr. Warren N. Spangler, as Assistant in the Waterman Gymnasium, beginning March 6, at the rate of $50. for
the semester, to succeed Mr. E. 0. Secord, resigned on that
date, Mr. Secord being therefore entitled to 3/19 and Mr.
Spangler to I6/I9 of the semester's compensation.
Mr. 'George A. Stumpmeyer, as Assistant in General
Chemistry, without pay, for the second semester, in place of
James D. Burby, promoted at the meeting of March 23.
S;HIRLtY W. SMITH.
April 4, I9II.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred upon Howard Huntington




APRIL MEETING, igI9i.


I3I


Bold, as recommended by the Faculty of the College of
Dental. Surgery.
Tihe Secretary transmitted a guarantee signed by the
contractor and the stlub-contractor on the roof of the addition
to the Engineering Building, providing that defects, if
appearing at any time within five years, should be remedied.
The Secretary was informally directed not to accept this
guarantee, but to retain the certified check of the contractors for $Ioo. in lieu of such a guarantee, to cover any
expenses necessary for repairs to such roof during a period
of five years.
On motion of Regent Beal, the request of Professor F.
N. Scott tot be permitted to attend, at the expense of the
University, the National Conference o-f Teachers of Jolurnalism to be hleld at the University of Missouri on April 21,
was referred to, the President and the Secretary, with power.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Regent Hanchett was
appointed to, sign the University vouchers for April, May
and June.
On. motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That payment is hereby authorized of the
traveling expenses of University officials who, on request of
the Regents, attended the recent hearing upon the' University bill before the Finance Committee and the Ways and
Means Committee of the Legislature.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise stated.
On motion the Board adjourned to Thu'rsday, May 25.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




MAY MEETING
UNIVERSI'rY O MIICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, May 25, 1911. 
The Board met in the Regents' Room.        Present,
Regent Hanchett, Regent Grant, Regent Bulkley, Regent
Clements, Regent Hubbard, Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal
and Regent Leland. Absent, Superintendent of Public
Instruction Wright.
The minutes of the meeting of April 14 were approved
as submitted to the members in proof, with the insertion
of the six words "other bodies intending to organize," on
page 127.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board requested
the Budget Committee to report for consideration the
budget of 1911-1912 as recommended.
Regent Leland, chairman of the Budget Committee,
presented the budget, and on his motion the Board
adopted the following resolution:Resolved, That the budget as recommended by the
Budget Committee, and with the various amendments provided at this session, with the exception of the budget of
the General Library, upon which the Committee is not yet
ready to report, be approved and adopted as the budget for
the year I9II-1912, and that the Secretary shall have authority to insert the names of persons, proposed later by heads
of departments and approved by the proper Dean, for assistantships for which compensations have been provided in the
budget.
The budget as approved will be found as an appendix
to the proceedings of the meeting of June 27 or of July 20,
being- made up for printing after balance in hands of
Treasurer June 30, and any balances or overdrafts in
accounts of 1910-1911 can be accurately known. The
budget as recommended by the Committee amounted,
including an estimate for the    General Library, to
$1,243,293.09.




I34


MAY MEETING, I9rI.


On motion *of Regent Leland, Regent Bulkley was
substituted for Ex-Regent Codd on the committee to
consider the relations between the University and the
United Steam    Engineers of Detroit.
Regent Beal reported the matter of observation facilities in the Ann Arbor city schools for students in the
department of Pedagogy in the University.
On motion of Regent Beal, the President and Secretary  were authorized     to  sign  the following   contract
which had already been signed under authority by the
President and Secretary of the Board of Education of
Ann Arbor:
PROPOSALS FOR AN AGRERMRNT BEaWtEN THiE BOARD Or
EDUCATION OEV THE CITY o1' ANN ARBOR AND THE
REGENTS Or 'TH UNIVERSITY Or MICHIGAN.
In consideration of the privileges mutually granted
herein, the Board of Education of the City of Ann Arbor
and the Regents of the University of Michigan hereby enter
into the following agreement:
First: That, upon the joint nomination of the Superintendent of City Schools and the President of the University, the Board of Educationi of the City of Ann Arbor may
designate not to exceed sixteen secondary or high school
teachers regularly employed in the public schools of Ann
Arbor, whose classes shall be open to students in courses in
Education at the University of Michigan for observational
study, under such regulations as may be formulated by the
Department of Education of the University together with
the Superintendent of City Schools; provided that it shall be
the duty of such teachers, without any interference with the
performance of the work of instruction regularly assigned to
them, to co —operate with the respective University instructors
concerned in such manner as to render such observational
study as effective as poosible.
Second: That the terms of the preceding section shall
not become operative in the case of any teacher who shall
indicate in wriiting to the Board of Education, through the
Superinitendent of City Schools, his or her unwillingness to
be subject to such observational study.
Third: That the Regents of the University of Michigan
agree to pay to the Board of Education of the City of Ann
Arbor for the privileges above specified two hundred ($200.)




MAYd    MEETING, G191.                    135
dollars per year for the Principal of the secondary or higl
school, and one hundred ($IOo.) dollars per year for each
teacher of the secondary or high school chosen for such
observational study.
Fourth: That, if at the close of any school year, it shall
be deemed by the Superintendent of City Schools and the
Principal of the School that the standard of the regular work
of any one of the teachers affected by this agreement has
been lowered by the operation of this agreement, the Superintendent of City Schools shall at once notify the Board of
Education and the President of the University; whereupon
the above mentioned observational study with such teacher
shall be discontinued; and thereafter the Regents of the University of Michigan shall not be liable for payment of any
further compensation for such teacher.
Fifth: That, if at the close of any school year, it shall
appear that any one of the teachers affected by this.agreement, has failed to meet the standards of efficiency con:templated by the University of. Michigan, in order to ful'fill the
purposes for whlich such observational study was instituted,
the President of 'the University shall.at once notify the
Superintendent of City Schools of the discontinuance of
such observational study with such teacher; and thereafter
the Regenlts of the University shall not be liable for the
payment of any further compensation for such teacher.
Sixth: That the terms of this agreement, or any portion
thereof, shall not become operative until the same shall have
been officially ratified by the Board of Education of the City
of Ann Arbor and by the Regents of the University of
Michigan.
The above agreement has been ratified this I6th day of
May, I9II, by the Board6 of Education of the City of Ann
Arbor.
(Signed )..............................
President.
(Signed)..............................
Secretary.
The above agreement has been ratified this.......... day
of....................by the Regents of the University of
Michigan.
(Signed)..............................
President.
(Signed).............................
Secretary.




136


IMA Y M/EE TiN G, 1 9 1 1.


The expense attendant on the above contract is as
follows:To the principal of the high school..................$ 200o.
Not to exceed fourteen teachers....................,400.
Printing observation blanks, etc....................  50.
Total......................................... $,650o.
Professor Henry C. Adams appeared and addressed
the Board relative to the contemplated assumption by
himself of duties as Director of the Bureau of Statistical
Tests to be established by the New York Central Lines.
Professor Adams later in the day, but following- the afternoon session, filed with the Secretary the following statement as summarizing his remarks to the Board:ANN ARBOR, AMay 25, 19I1.
To 'the Honorable Board of Regents
of the University of Michigan:Possibly you may be aware that the statistical and
accounting work of the Interstate Co1mmerce Co'mmlission
has been under my direction since I887. During that tilme
there has been developed a system of reports and of statistical accounts for all agencies of transportation. A Board
of Examiners also has been created for admlinistrative supervision of the books and accounts kept by the carriers. This
has been constructive work and its completion, so far at least
as funtdanlental principles are concerned, makes it no longer
necessaxry for mie;to continue in the service of the 'Conllllissioll.
There is, ho;wever, a line of workl closely allied to that
above referred to. This work consists in the development
of.a system of statistical accounts, as distinguished' from
financial and operating accounts. The opportunity of entering upon this line of constructive' work is opened up to me
by a request from the New York Oentral Lines that I undertake the organization for that sys;tem of a Bureau of Statistical Tests.  It seemned to me proper before accepting
such an offer that I receive the approval of the Board of
Regents, for I have no desire to sever my connection with
the University.
Yo'u will, of course, inlquire how the interests of the
Universiity are likely to be affected. In r eply, may I call your
attention to the course in' Transportation which was begun
in the department of Economics tvwo years ago? This course




MAY MEETING, I911.


I37


has succeeded beyond expectations. It has proven attractive
to students and has received the unqualified approval of men
prominent in. the railway service. The chief difficulty in the
development of this course is that the facts and principles
which underlie the instruction which such a course demfands
have never been reduced to systematic expression. A moment's consideration will make it clear also that this cannot
be done except by one who has first-hand access to the material involved, and it seems to me a fortunate solution of the
problem, so far as the material is concerned, that I have this
opportunity of doing work for a prominent railway system.
My official task for the New, York Central Lines will be to
investigate conditions, to correlate facts and to systematize
results so as, to formulate conclusions and suggest improvements. In my judgment a great achievement awaits the University that can reduce the facts and principles involved in
such a task to a teaching basis, and the opportunity of
attempting this for the University of Michigan, is the chief
reason why I am willing to consider favorably the proposition of the President of the' New York Central Lines.
Another fact should be stated. I shall have an office in
Ann Arbor, and it is my purpose to man thais office with
graduate students and encourage them to supplement their
instruction gained in office work by instruction offered in.
the University. This will be equivalent during the next year
to, six or eight fellowships in the department of Economics.
The Company heartily approves this plan, for it appreciates
the necessity of having in its service educated analysts and
statisticians. There is a marked demand for this class of
men, and I see, in my imagination at least, a graduate course
in railway transportation.
President Brown also asked m!e to look into the apprenticeship schools of the New York Central Lines with a view
to their development anld improvement, a suggestion which
recognizes in yet another way education as a factor in efficient corporate administration.
This statement is, I trust, sufficiently explicit to.make
it clear that the work which I hope to do for the New York
Central Lines is entirely in harmony with university aims
and ideals, and it would be a satisfaction to me should the
Board feel justified in expressing itself to that effect.. It
should perhaps be said that I shall continue to give the full
'equivalent of time and work to' the' University -and that, for
some years at least, this experiment in the development of




138


lAlY 1 M1EETING, 1911.


a course in Railway Transportaction will be tilhe occasio  of
no,considerable expensle to the Univers ity. For tihe present,
the arrangemtent is equivalent to an annual comltribution, to
the University of what otherwise would cost betwieen five
and six thousand dollars.  Respectfully sutbmitted,
H,;NRY C. ADAMs.
Following Professor Adams's presentation,     a discussion ensued, and it was voted that the minutes should
recordta that te  oard listened with interest to Professor
Adams, and after discussion, was of tle opinion that the
system   explained by him, if worked out successfully
under University auspices, will le a benefit to the community.
Dean   Reed, Dean Cooley, and       P'rofessor 1 )'Ooge
appeared and addressed the Board relative to the desirability of establishing a chair of Art, strongly urging tlhe
establishment of an assistant professorship in that field.
Regent Clements presented the following' resolution,
which was seconded by Regent Iceland:iRcsolvcd, Tlhat thle Budget Commilttee be instructed to
add $I,6oo. to the budget for 1911-191:2 for the purpose of
providing an assistant profiessorship of the Fine Arts, and
that I-Ierbert Richard Cross be appointed to such assistant
professorship for lthe University year 1911-:-]9:12 a t!te s-lalry
of $i,6oo.
'his resolution was adopted by the following vote: —
Yes: Regent -Ianchett, Regent Grant, Regent 1Bulkley,
Reglent Cleienlts, Regent H]ubbard, Regen:t Ielanlld.
No: Regent Sa wyer, Regenlt Beal..
On motion of Regent Clements, the matter of providing additional vault space for the 'T'reasurer's office was
laid on the table indefinitely.
Regent Beal reported that he had approved the payment of $70. per month, if necessary, to secure a proper
gardeiler at the Botanical Garden. This matter had been
referred to Regent Beal, with power. (See page 127).
On motion the 1Board adjourned for lunch.




II1AY  JI E  JETING, I Q   I  I.


I39


AFTER NOON SESSION
'l'he Bloard  reassembled, the     same members being
l)resent as at the morning session.
Rec —ent Clements presented the following        commniunication froml Smith, I linchma     anad Grylls, architects and
engineers of Detroit:D)iTROI'r, A I IC I-IGAN, May 6, i9: T.
File No. 2022.
Thle H-lonorable B:,-ard of -eoet s,
tTniver -ity  of  Iichigall,
Annl Arl)or, M\.ichigl-an.
(Gcntllclmcn..-W-e beg to stubmlit the following letter
lmbodyin'g the arrangemcllnts \ which havee beenl made with
\Ir1. Clements and Mtr. Ccoloey ill reference to engineering
services for the nllew -Hcating 1Plant. Wie agree to make all necessary plans, specifications
and details and prepare the contracts for power and heating
pla-nt of approximately 4,coo boiler H-. P. and 8co K. V.
capacity. T'lhesie plans and specificaiticns are to cover all
applarattls such as )boiler s, tulrbinles, -geeratolrs, pumps,
chimllleys, transmissIion lines fcr steam, electricity, air, all
auxiliary apparatus snach as col tracks and conveyor machin ery for handling coal, all taxiliary plants such,as will
be used for water softening, all' buildings and tunnels to
accommodate the beforementtioned apparatus and in fact
provide all the engineering data, plans and specificatitons
which may be niecessary to carry out the provisions of the
current appropriaticn of $28o,cco. for these purposes.
2. W~e agree to perform these services in conjunction
writh, and subject to the approval of, such officers of it1e
Uliversi'ty as yotl nlay designate.
3. We agree to superintend the construction    of all
work covered by the above plans, specificattions and details
andl to keep a:t our own expense a superintendent lupon. the
gro"un1d at all such times as the construction work is in
progress.
4. We agree to furnish all plans, specifications and details so that the construction work may be entirely completed on or before Septembqer T, T912.




140


MAY MEETING, 1911.


5. In consideration of the foregoing enumerated slervices we are to receive from the Board of Regents 5% of
the total construction cost of the work covered by the
plans, specifications and details, which sum is to, be paid as
follows:a. On completion of the plans and specifications
3% of the value of the work covered by the plans, and
specifications.
b. As the construction work progresses 2% of the
value of the work completed.
Thanking you for these instructions, we beg to remain,
Yours very truly,
SMIn'T, IIINCHMAN & GRYLLS,
Per T. H. Hinchman, Jr.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution was adopted:Rcsolved, TIhat the Buildings and Grounds Committee
be authorized to make a contract with Smith, Hinchman
and Grylls in:accordance with their proposal to the Board
under date of May 6.
On motion of Reg-ent Clements, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That Regent Beal and the Building Committee be authorized to purchase two lots directly north of
the so-called Winchell property on 'North University Ave.
at prices deemed by them to be reasonable.
Regent Clements presented various items of repairs
as desirable for the coming summer.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the purchase of thirty-five additional fire extinguishers,
such painting as is required in and upon the New
Chemical Laboratory, the New Medical Building, the
Physical Laboratory, the New Engineering Building and
the hospitals, the provision of screens and sidewalks as
required at the Eye and Ear Ward, and the fitting up of
rooms in the basement of the Materia Medica and Physiology Building.    The estimated amounts required to be
added to the budget for this work are as follows:



MAY MEETING, 1911.                      141
I..  Fire  extinguishers.............................   $250.
ADDITIONS TO REPAIRS ACCOUNT.
2. Painting in New Chenl. Lab. (Allowed in Repairs
Budget).
3. Painting in New M Aedical Bldg. (Allowed in Repairs Budget).
4. Painting Physical Lab...........................  $102.
5. Painting New Engineering Bldg................. 400.
6. Painting at University Hospitals................  6oo.
7. Screens, Eye and Ear Ward.....................  35.
8. Sidewalks, Eye and Ear Ward..................  6o.
9. Basement Physliology Bldg..................  171.
Total addition to Repairs Accoutnt...... $1,368.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board adopted
the following resolution:Resolved, That the Auditor General be requested to set
asiide $400. from the General Building Fund into the fund
for the addittion to Observatory.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution was taken:Resolved, That in the Buildings and Grounds Department, enmployees on yearly salary be hereafter given two
weeks' vacatiion with pay.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that
additional tennis courts be constructed at Palmer Field
at an estimated cost of $300.
The Secretary reported to the Board in the matter of
candidates for the position of Purchasing Agent.        On
motion of Regent Bulkley, seconded by Regent -anchett,
the Board appointed Mr. Charles L. Loos as Purchasing
Agent at the salary of $2,250. per year, with the usual
understanding that the position may be terminated by the
University at any time that the authorities deem it to be
unsatisfactorily filled.  Mr. Loos was requested to take
up his duties July 1, or thereabouts.
The President reported that a contest had been instituted by one of the heirs under the will of the lite Octavia
Bates.   On motion, this contest was referred to Regent
Bulkley for such attention as he deemed best.




142


MAY MEETING, I'9I.


'The President suggested the advisability of some
regential control of the soliciting for funds, by. University
organizations, among the alumni. On motion of Regent
Grant, this question was referred to the Executive Committee for consideration and report.
Professor Kelsey presented a list of the donors to the
volume on "Latin and Greek in American Education," as
follo-ws:Mr. D. M. Ferry, Jr.
Mr. Frederick M. Alger
Mr. A. C. Bloomfield
Dr. J. B. Book
Mr. L. W. Bowen
Mrs. Th'e:odore D. Buhl
NMr. F. J. Hecker
Mr. J. L. Hudson
M\r. J. C. Hutchins
Mr. Clarence A. Lightner
Mr. Philip H. MicMillan
Mr. W. H. Murphy
Mr. John R. Russlel
Mr. Walter S. Rmtssel
Mr. Charles B. Warren
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Ieg-ents voted their
sincere thanks to these benefactors of the University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of Dean Reed, the Board merged the "department of History" and the "department of American History" into a single department to be styled the "department of History," and Professor Claude H1. Van Tyne
was made head of this new department with the title of
Professor of History.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the thanks of the Board
were voted to Mr. William W. Taylor, '93, of Clifton
Forge, Virginia, for his presentation to the University of
a handsome portrait of the late Dr. A. B. Prescott. The
portrait is hung in the reading room of the Chemical
Library.
Regent Sawyer presented the resignation of Professor
Walter Mulford, of the department of Forestry, which
was accepted with regret, and on Regent Sawyer's




lMAY MABEETING, 19r11.


i43


motion, Professor Mulford was given leave of absence
during Commencement.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Professor Filibert Rotl
was authorized to solicit from the lumbermen of the state
a sum sufficient to construct and equip a Forestry Laboratory for that department in the University. Professor
Roth's expenses were authorized to be paid from the fund
provided for "Increasing the Usefulness of the University."
Regent Beal called the attention of the Bloard to the
offer of Mr. Charles-B. Warren, of Detroit, to pay to the
University for three years the sum of $100. per year to be
used to purchase current diplomatic documents for the
use of students of International Law in the University.
This gift was accepted with the thanks of the Board to
the donor.
On motion of Regent 1-lubbard, permission was giv\en
to begin work in the Summer Engineering Camp on June
26 instead of July 3, as requested by the Acting Dean of
theSutmmer Session and the Professor of Surveying.
Regent Sawyer presented the following commlunication from the Dean of the Department of Medicine and
Surgeryl:iTo the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attenticn is invited to thle following, for cicisideration if 1possible at your meeting called for Mlay 25, 1911.
I am instructed by the \ledlical Faculty to request of
your Honorablle Body thlat you give permiission to said Faculty to providc for a couirse of two years' instruction, leading to thie degree of Doctor of Public HI-ealth (1).P.H.)
This degree has lonog been ogivcn in in!gland, and it has
recently been given by the University of Pennsylvania. At
a conference held in Chicago a short time ago it was agreed,
provided that the governing bodies consent, tllat Pennsylvania, Hlarvard and.Mlichigan shouldl, with the beginning
of the next college year, offer practically the samle co1urses.
'There is a great demand, and a growingo one, for healthl
officials who sholuld know not only medicine, but the. prin-.ciples of heating, ventilating, plumbing, seewage and garbage
disposal, water supplies, mnethods of purification of water,
etc. I have talked with Dean Coolev concerning 'the mat



t44


4l4A Y MlEETING, 1911.


ter, and we think that we can, get up a most excellent course
along this line. We propose to demand for admission to
this course the degrees of B. S. and M. D. fromn this medical department, or a 1ed(ccal school of equivalent standing.
The course will extend through two years, about half of lit
wiill be givel in thle Medical Department, and the other half
in the Engineering Department. In the Medical Departmnent
the courses will consist of the chemical and biological examination of drinking water, food analysis, water analysis,
advanced bacteriology, and some advanced work in pathology and food chemistry. In the Engineering Department
the subjects covereed will be 'heating, ventilation, lighting,
plumbing, the disposal of sewage, the construction and protection of water supplies, etc.
We ask your perlnissiion to announce our readiness to
give such 'a course next year.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
V. C. VAUGHAN.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board approved the
recommendation of the Medical Faculty and established
the' degree of Doctor of Public Health and the course
leading to it, as requested.
At this point the Board took up the recommendations
of the Senate Council for honorary degrees. The Board
voted to confer certain honorary degrees, and in accordance with custom, the names will be announced on
Commencement day and will appear in the proceedings
of the annual meeting of the Regents in Commencement
week.
On motion of Regent Grant, Dr. John G. Winter was
promoted from an instructorship to be Assistant Professor of Ancient Languages at the salary;of $1,600. per
annull1.
On motion of Regent Grant, leave of absence from
June 22 to the end of the present University year was
granted to Professor I-erbert C. Sadler in order that he
might serve as one of the delegates to represent' the
Society of Naval Architects of America at the Jubilee
Celebration of the Institute of Naval Architects of Great
Britain in London during the week of July 3.
A communication was received from Dean Cooley, of




MAY M EETING, 19I r.


t45


the Department of Engineering, stating the necessity of
additional assistance during the illness of Assistant Dean.
William H. Butts. On motion of Regent Clements, the
Board granted an allowance of not to- exceed $200. to
provide such assistance.
A request was received from the Acting Dean of the
Summer Session for an additional allowance of $165. to
purchase three additional tents with the necessary equipment for the summer work in Biology. This request,
which was based on a large advance enrollment, was
referred to Regent Beal, with power.
The Board elected the following members of the
Senate, nominated by the respective Deans, as faculty
members of the Board in Control of Athletics:
Professor A. S. Whitney, Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.
Professor George W. Patterson, Department of Engineering.
Professlor Evans Holbrook, Departmnent of Law.
Profes!sor A. B. Sltevens, representing th-e Department
of MAedicine and Surgery, the Homceopathic MAedical College, thle School of Pharmacy and the College of Dental
Surgery.
'The Board also continued as alumni members of the
Board in Control of Athletics Mr. John D. Hibbard, of
Chicago; Judge, ames O. Murfin, of Detroit, and Mr
James L. Duffy, of Bay City.
Dr. A. F. Shull was, on motion of Regent Sawyer,
appointed Instructor in Zoology for the year 1911-1912 at
the salary of $1,400., the salary having already been
provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Grant, Dr. John F. Shepard was
promoted from an instructorship to be Assistant Professor of Psychology at the salary of $1,600. per year.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mr. C. A. Bumstead, a
senior in the College of Dental Surgery, was granted permission to be absent from Commencement without prejudice to receiving his diploma at Commencement.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the sum of $200. was
set aside as compensation for two months' services in




146


MAY MJEEETING, I9 I.


classifying and labeling the collections illustratiing historical geology. Mr. Richard A. Smith was appointed to
do this work. The exact dates at which this service is to
be performed will be determnined by the lProfessor of
Geology.
On motion of Regent 13eal, the following degrees and
teacher's diploma were granted in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of
L,iterature, Science, ancd the Arts:Bachelor of Ailrs:
E rwin Fecrdilnand Kocll
Francis Jam-es Lawrencc
Lee Vincent Romig
Bachelor of Letters as of the Class of ](895:
Elmer Kelso Towle
T eac her's Diplon/lm a:
John HTunle MIcl:Phec
On motion of Regent [:eal, Assistant Professor 0. C.
Glaser's leave was changed from one year at half pay to
one semester witl full pay.
The Secretary transmitted to the Bl oardl a verbal
description bly Mr. (. C. Simonds of the land at the
northwest corner of the Observatory groundl(s previously
authorized by the Bloard to be quitclaimed to the city.
The verbal description varied very slightly from the line
shown in the blue print, which line was drawn free-hand.
On motion of Regent Clements, the BIoard authorized a
quitclaim according to the description furnished by M4r.
Simonds.
On motion of Regent Hfanchett, following the request
of the Dean of the I lomceopathic Medical College, the
sum of $5,472. was added to the current expense budget
of the Homnceopathic Hiospital for, the present year, to
cover overdraft and immediate expenses till June 30.
On motion of Regentt Beal, leave was g-'rante(l to
Assistant Professor R()l)ert \V. Ie-egner and to Junior
Professor 'Harrison AM. Randall to be alsent from June 22
and June 7 respectively.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Buildin-s and Grotunds
Committee was authorized to provide for the renewal or




MAY MlEE71NG, 1911.


147


replacement of the insurance on the boilers of the University.
On motion of Regent H1-anchett, certificates of graduation from the Training School for Nurses in connection
with the HI-omoeopathic Iospital were granted as follows:
Mliss Mlyrtie Miay MacArthur
Miss Jeanl S.-Boyes
On motion of Regenlt Grant, a special allowance of
$200. was made to defray the cost of paper, press work
and printing as a University bulletin of two series of
papers lpresented at the Michigan Schoolmasters' Club.
These papers are to be distributed among teachers of
languages.
Cn motion of Rlegent Beal, the following appointments to University fellowships for 1911-1912 were made
as requested by the Administrative Council of tlhe Graduate School:James Harvey Baxter, A. B., University of Michigan,
(Mat lhenmat iicsl).
Ralph 'Harold Dangerfield, A. B. and A. MA., University
of Oklahoma, (Chemical Techllology).
Frank Adalm McJunkin, M. D., Univelsity of Alichigal;
A. B., Ulnivers:ity of Utalh, (-lygitene).
Sacrah Davina MacKay, A. B., University of Illinois;. S., Uniiversity of Mlichigan, (Psychology).
i-oImer Iliner Rol)bbins, A.  and A. MI., University of
\Michigan, (Latin).
HIarry Sieger Slifer, A. B., \Wesleyan UJliversity, (Alericaln  H.istory).
Gilbert Ht-lawthornle 'Iaylor, A.., I).ePanw University,
(Iatmin).
Lambert Thorp, I. S., MIassaclhusetts Institute of Tleclhnology; I. S., University of Michigan, (,enleral Clhemistry).
Clarence Jay West, 1-. S., University  of Michigan,
(Organic Chemlistry).
John E. Winter, A. B1., Hope College; A. B. anld A. AM.,
Uniiversity of Michigan, (Education).
AC communication was received from the l)ean of the
1)epartnment of Law    and the Law Librarian relative to




I48


lll MAY MEEATIA'G, 19 J.


the conditions in the Law Library. On motion of Regent
Grant, an expenditure of $100. was authorized for the
purpose of providing for a card catalogue case for the
library. The question of extensive repairs and enlargement of the Law Libiarv was referred to the Committee
on Buildings and Grounds and the Committee on the Law
Department for investigation and report, with the understanding that the temporary necessities of the library for
additional space would be met by removing a number of
tables and chairs.
The request of the Department of Law        for an additional appropriation of approximately $750. to complete
the library's collection of state statutes and digests was
referred to the Budget Committee with the recommendation that the request of the Department be granted if
possible.
The following appointments, as requested by the
Acting Dean of the Summer Session, were made for the
summer of 1911:IHistory,; Profelss!or J. L. Conger, Knox College, one
additional course, (Vice. W. Dow, withddrawn), $20o.o0,
Instructor Arthure C. Cole, two courses, (Vice F. M. Bacon,
withdrawln), $I92.oo: Astronomy; Assistant Professor
Robert H. Baker, 1Browl University, two courses, (Vice
Professor W.. JI Hussey, wAithdrawn), $256.0o: Zoologgy;
Orrin, J. Weenzel, Assistant, $75.00, P'aul Welch, Assistant
in Entomology at the Biological Station1, without pay: Surveying (Bogardus Engineering Camp); Maurice D. Bensley,
Assistant, $150.oo, Harry Boulchard, A;ssistant, $150o.0, Paul
A. Daniells, Assistant, $150.co, Lawlrellce 1. I-Tale, Assistant, $I50.oo, Arthur J. Schamehorl, Assistant, $15o.oo,
Frank A. Walton, Assistant, $I50.o0: PhariZ'n'y; Charles
B. Jordan, Assistant, $37.5o, Clarence -H. Jennings, Assistant, $37.50: BotallIy Elizabeth D. Wuist, Assistant, $4o.oo,
Lena A. Barber, Assistant, $40.00, Roy S. Head, Assistant,
$30.00.
Regent Sawyer was excused.
Regent Beal presented the resignation of Richard
Hudson as Professor of History, to take effect at the
close of the present college year.    The resignation was




MAI,l MEELTING,. 91'1.


I49


accepted w\ith regret, and Professor Hudson was miade
Professor Emeritus of HIistory.
Regent Grant presented the resignation of Bradley M.
Thompson as Jay Professor of Law, to take effect at the
close of the present college year, June 30, 1911. On
motion of Regent Grant, Professor Thompson' s resignation was accepted with regret, and he was made Professor Emeritus of Law.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board elected Edward
Raymond Turner as Professor of History at the salary of
$2,500. per year.
Regent Leland presented the resignation of M.r.
George S. Baker as Treasurer of the University, in order
that he might accept a position in a Detroit bank. Mr.
Baker's resignation was accepted with regret, to take
effect June 30, 1911.
Regent Leland presented applications from various
gentlemen for the position of Treasurer. These were
received and ordered filed with the Secretary.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board directed that
$18,000. of the trust funds of the University be invested
in Taylor County, Texas, road district bonds, to net 5%,
if the legality of the issue be established beyond question.
The matter was left for action by the Secretary of the
Board as circtumstances should warrant under the above
direction.
Regent Leland presented a preliminary report from
Mr. D. W. Springer, Certified Public Accountant, who
had been employed to audit the books of the Treasurer's
office and the related accounts of the hospitals, dental
clinics and laboratories.
On motion of Regent IUeland, the recommendations of
Mr. Springer for certain changes in the system of bookkeeping in the hospitals were adopted, and Mr. Springer
was directed to complete his audit after the taking of an
inventory June 30, with compensation for the entire audit
of $200. The audit is to include the checking of the individual accounts in the hosiptals for the two years 1909 -1910 and 1910-1911. Mr. Springer is also to install a
system of books in the hospitals which will do away with
the disadvantages of the present system.




150


iMAlY M   EETING, 1911.


Regent Leland was excused.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the placing of a curtain
under the skylight in the Alumni Memorial H-all was
authorized at the lowest bid, $80. plus cost of erection 1)y
Building and Grounds department.
On motion of Regent Beal, the request of the Superintendent of the University Hospital for consideration of
the matter of providing a bakery at the hospital and the
additional request of the Superintendent for the painting
oT the internes' rooms at the hospital were referred to the
Committee on Buildings and Grounds.
On motion-of Regent Clements, the question of contract for the fuel supply of 1911-1912 was referred to
Regent Clements, Dean Cooley and the Secretary.
All of the above actions, unless otherwise slecified,
were by unanimous vote.
The Board adjourned till June 27 at 10 Ax.:i., the date
of the annual meeting.
SHIRLEY \V\. SMITH,
Secretary.




JUNE MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MIICHIIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, June 27, I911.
The Board met in the Regents' Room at o1 o'clock A. M.
Present, Regent Hanchett, Regent Grant, Regent Bulkley,
Regent Hubbard, Regent Bealand, Regent Leland. Regent
Sawyer and Regent Clements and Superintendent Wright
took their seats later, as indicated below.
On motion of Regent Beal, the minutes of the meeting
of May 25 were approved as submitted to the members in
proof, with authority to the Secretary to insert the proper
estimated amounts for certain repairs on page I41.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted that the
question of proper disposition or handling of a lot on
Woodward Avenue (between Willis and Canfield Avenues),
Detroit, owned by the University, should be referred to a
committee consisting of Regent Leland and Regent Bulkley
to examine and report on the opportunity to make a long
term lease of such lot with revaluation as often as each ten
years.
Regent Bulkley moved to amend Regent Beal's resolution by making the committee consist of the following:
Regent Beal, Regent Leland and Regent Bulkley.
Regent Bulkley's amendment was adopted.
After further discussion, Regent Grant presented the
following resolution; which was aadopted:
Resolved, That the matter of the Woodward Ave. lot
shall be referred to the above named committee, with power to m:ake 'such lease if t'le com'mitte'e deemn best.
Regent Beal presented a tax history of the so-called
Camp land back of the Psychopathic Ward, and on Regent
Beal's motion the chairman of the Buildings and Grounds




152.JUNE M1EETING, 791Ir


Conmiittee was authorized to purchase such lands at not
to exceed the suml-of:'$25o.
Superintencent Wright took his seat.
The President brought up a proposal from the University
of Michigan Union relative to an exchange of the Union
property for property owned by the University.         After
discussion this matter was informally laid on the table.
A   communication   was presented    from   Mr. Herbert
Russell, an alumnus of the University teaching in a normal
school in the State of Pennsylvania, suggesting that University catalogues be sent to the various heads of Pennsylvania normal schools. It was informally agreed that catalogues should be sent.
On mOtion of Regent Sawyer, an expenditure of $Ioo
was allowed from the "Fund for Increasing the Usefulness
of the University" for the purchase of copies of the socalled National Dinner number of the Alumnus, the same
to be sent to high schools, libraries, and newspapers of the
State.
Regent Bulkley proposed the following resolution, which
was adopted by a call vote:
Whereas, The Regenlts of the University of Michigan
desire to construct for the necessary purposes of the University an auditorium building in a suitable location adjacent
to the campus land said! Regents do not at present hold title
to sufficient real estate so located but need to acquire real
estate for the site of said building and the following described property, in the City of Ann Arbor, Michigan, has
been selected as the most available site for such purpose,lots 6, 7, 8, 9, Io and II, Block 2 south, Range II east in the
Eastern Addition, the Regents now owning all of said property excepting lots 6 and ii, Block 2 south, Range iI east
in the Eastern Addition, and
Whereas, The Regents have endeavored. to purchase
said property from the owners thereof but are unable to do
so at a price at all commensurate with its value.
Now   Therefore, It is resolved that the taking of
the above described property be and it is hereby declared
necessary for the public use of said University and that the
attorney of the Regents be and he is hereby authorized) and
directed to institute the legal proceedings provided by law
to condemn said property.




JUNI E JMEE TING, _r9                     ' 5


I53


Regent Bulkley informally.reported on the status of the
contest in regard to the will of the late Octavia Bates.
On motion of Regent Grant, Regent Bulkley was authorized to join with other beneficiaries under the will of
Octavia Bates, in the employment of special counsel, if he
should deem best.
Regent Beal reported that in view of the enrollment at
the Biological Station, he had allowed the purchase of three
tents at $55 apiece, this question having been referred to
him, with power, at the meeting of May 25.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board voted that the
suml of $750 should be allowed the Law Library for the
purchase of state statutes and digests, with the understanding that whenever the $20,000 bequest under the will of
the late Octavia Bates should become available, then the
General Fund should be reimbursed from such bequest for
the amount expended under this motion.
On motion of Regent Leland, the salary of Dr. W. B.
Hinsdale as Professor in and Dean of the Homoeopathic
Medical College was fixed at $3500, beginning with the
University year 9 II-I912.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer's expense
voucher amounting to $43.I5 was approved.
Regent Leland presented the following report of Mr.
D. W. Springer, Certified Public Accountant, which report
was accepted and adopted, to be carried out so far as possible:
Detroit, Mich., June 23, 1911.
Honorable Frank B. Leland,
Chairman, Finance Committee,
Board of Regents,
University of Michigan.
Dear Sir:-Having made an audit of the books and
vouchers of the Treasurer of the University of Michigan,
Mr. George S. Baker, from the time he assumed that office
till the end of the fiscal year, June 30, I9I0, my report
takes the form of observations an4d suggestions.
I. The examinations covered those portions of the
books which are not audited by the state accountant.
2. I did not find, any record as to the transfer of funds
and securities at the time Mr. Baker succeeded Mr. Soule.
I therefore took as a starting point the last trial balance
made under Mr. Soule's administration.




i54


JUNE MEETING, I9rI


3. I find that Mr. Baker has kept his records in an exceptionally fine manner.
4. The annual report submitted by him, as of June 30,
I9Io, and made a part of your proceedings for the December meeting, I9Io, is in accord with the books, which in turn
agree with the original records of receipts and payments.
5. The only original documents to which I did not
lhave access were those pertaining to!the funds which are
managed by Mr. George Field and in those cases I had his
reports.
6. The Treasurer of the University is also the custodian of the funds of the Alumni Association and of the
State Psychopathic Hospital. The records of these funds
are kept in different books from those in which 'the regular
trust funds are handled. It is suggested that they should
properly be made a part of the annual report, even i:f it is
not desired to combine them so far as bookkeeping is concerned.
In checking the books of the Treasurer, I used the
amounts which the 'hospital and dental books showed to
lhave been paid him. As indicated in a previous report,
I did not find that the books of the hospitals showed exact
conditions although kept according to typewritten instruction which had been furnished them.
I. In view of the fact that there is a considerable
amount of office material and blanks which can be used with
slight changes, I would suggest that a reconciliation balance
be taken July I for the purpose of verifying all assets or
liabilities and that new general accounts be opened as of
that date. Also that new individual accounts with the patients then in the lhospital be opened and that the back part
of the ledger form now used be dispensed with as well as
that portion of the charge book from which those postings
were.made.
2. I find that the inventory of the University Hospital
covers nearly two hundred pages while that at the Homeopathic Hospital takes about forty. Mr. Draper believes that
it would require one more man to take a monthly inventory
and I am inclined to agree with him. I do not believe the
benefit to be derived would warrant the expense. WVe can
now determline once a year whether the 'hospitals have
m'ade or los!t money and 'how muclh.
3. I would suggest that wh'en the present stock of
hospital vouchers is exhausted that the new ones be made to
conform in classification to the.state classification. Sub



JUNE MEE 'TING, 9" I


I55


classifications could be introduced, if desired, but it is advisable to hold to the state forms as far.as possible as it
is less liable to produce friction with tlhe office of the Auditor General.
4. The system in vogue at the dental laboratory is not
what it should be and we will arrange such forms as are
needed in time for the opening in the fall. A "receipt giving cash register" should be installed as the most efficient
method of handling the cash. It would save time for the
cashier and secure an absolutely reliable record.
After examining the general office system, which was
made a part of my duty, the following suggestions are offered.
I. There is not a sufficient separation of vault facilities between the offices of Secretary and Treasurer.
2. The handling of the summer session pay-roll is
not in accordance with good accounting principles. In view
of your arrangement under which teachers may leave the
money earned, in summer teaching and secure absences
during the regular school year on regular pay, the money
should be drawn each year by the teacher and turned back
to the Treasurer to be kept by him as a trust.fund until
such time as the adjustment is made.
3. All classifications on orders should be made by the
person giving the same rather than by the Secretary's office.
If the Secretary objects to the classification made, he
should return it for adjustment.  If no classification is
made, it should be returned for one. It is sometimes easier
for an office clerk to do this work than to refer it back
but in the long run best results come from holding the man
who gives the order to strict accountability for its classification. This will prevent the necessity for counter entries
later.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
D. W. Springer,
Certified Public Accountant.
Regent Hanchett proposed        the  following   resolution,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That the Finance Committee be authorized
to provide a monthly audit of the accounts of the Treasurer's office with monthly reports to the Regents; that the
Finance Committee be requested further to consider the
matter of countersignature of all University checks.




156


JUNE M1EETING, Ir911


Regent Leland presented the names of various candidates for the position of Treasurer of the University. After discussion, on motion of Regent Leland, Robert A.
Campbell, of Lansing, Michigan, was elected Treasurer of
the University at the salary of $2300 per year froni July i,
Mr. Campbell to furnish at his own expense a satisfactory
surety company bond of $ioo,ooo.
Superintendent Wright was excused.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Committee on the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts was authorized to visit the Biological Station during the session
and to report to the Board upon their visit.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, degrees were conferred as follows:
BACHELOR OF SCIENCI.


Arthur James Campbell
Reed Chambers
Corwin Stauton Clarke,
M.D.
Daune Wesley Crankshaw
Carl Benjamin DeForest
Virginia Ruby Edmister
Ernest Elgart
Cecil Royal Evans
Virgil David Greer
John Harold I-ay
Roy Sanford Head
Conrad Montague Jennings
Robert Lee Jickling
Charles Stewart Johnson
George Lawrence Keenan
Charles Stuart Kennedy
Abraham Alebert Klein


Martin Edwin Knoll
Herbert Frederick Lindsay
John Howard McEwan
Alson Job Manby
Jesse Charles Nellis
John Merner Noble
Irving Whittier Payne
Archibald Claud Pifher
Frank Eugene Sayers
Henry Aloysius Schlink
Henson Hoff Thomas
Leroy Tileston
Roy James Trebilcock
Frank August Wegner
Paul Gerhardt Weisman
Frank Normtan Wilson
Roy Wilkin Withrow


BACHELOR OF ARTS.


Waldo Mack Abbot
Alice Dunning Adams
Iva Dell Adams
Marguerite Elizabeth Adams
Young Ewing Allison, Jr.
George Albert Anderson
Katherine Helene Anderson
Carrie Belle Andrus
Claribel Armitage
Vivian D. Baker
Ray Holley Baldwin


Edith Loraine Bandfield
Arthur Gerald Barnard
Kathleen Marguerite
Beardsley
Theodore Hallett Bearse
Frank E. Bechman
Rosa Bell
Olive Benbrook
Elizabeth Catherine Benjamin
Max Bennett




JUNE MEETING, I9_ 'i


157


Albert Ray Benua
Dion Scott Birney
Thomas Earl Howard
Black
Benjamin Frank Blanchard
Ralph Joseph Block
Juan Antonio Bonilla
Augusta 'Murray Bookmyer
Albert Step'hens Borgman
Charles Allen Bowman
Alma Adele Bright
Herman Brosowska
Andrew Hiram Brown
Dorothy Miles Brown
Eilene Mae Browie
James Dennis Burby
Adele Burn-ham
Mildred Mary Burns
Frances iMay Butterfield
Eugene Reynolds Campbell
Sten Ivar Carlson
HFazel Estelle Carter
Katrina Mary Caughey
Marjorie Chaney
Merlyn Arms Chappel
Laura Esther Christensen
Ralph Meredith Cochran
Conscello Jessellen Cole
Inez Elvira ICole
Charlotte Coney
Victor Tuttle Conklin
Amaryllis Marie Cotey
Lyman Jerome Craig
Ralph Cook Craig
George Armstrong Cram
Vernc:r WVi!iislow Crane
Irene Pearl Crawford
Arthur Eugene Curtis
Vera Carlotta Daniel
Florence Ada Davis
Julia Aurelia Davis
Leita Margarita Davis
Jeanette Grace Dean
Charlotte Theiss Denfeld
Mary Edith Dew
Harriet Carleton Dickinson
Ada Kathleen 'Dietz
Clair William Ditchy
Jay Karl Ditchy
Evelyn Mary Dougherty
Rolbert Edward Driscoll
William Caldwell Dudgeon,
Jr.
George M\otley Duff
Alice' Gertrude Duncan
David Chrisfie Duncan


Constance Grace Eirich
Clara Harrison Straiahan
Ely
Arthur Gottfr.id Erickson
DeForest William Evans
David Allan Everett
Millison Cutler Farr
Mary Teresa Farrell
Uriah J..Fike
Laura Mary Finkbeiner
Edward Rudolph Finkenstaedt
Juliette Irene' Finn
Bertha Louise Fischer
Clement Richard Flannigan
Clayton Force
Howard Stowell Fox
Ina Fox
Vera Elaine Fox
Omar Marcus Gass
Gladys Elizabeth Gillette
Laura Leona Gillette
Avery Jacob Ginsburg
Herbert Adolph Goetz
Chauncey oLloyd Goodrich
Arthur Miller Gorman
'Margaret Elizabeth Gould
Kathariine Price Gralham
Lucien Helm Greathouse
Burton 'George Grim
Lena Mabel Griswold
John Gutknecht
Elenore Minerva Hague
Charles Hubbard Hall
Lora Wilhelmine Hall
Frida Irmla Haller
Louis Patterson Haller
Francis Garfield Hamilton
Sue Ortha Hamilton
Harry William Hammondt
Byron Berry Harlan
Claude Hezekiah Harper
Helen Rowan Harper
Elizabeth Helen Harris
Griffith Hays
Jack Morton Hendrick
Martha Belle Hetzel
Florence Jane Hill
Norman Hingston Hill
Dewey Asa Hiickley
Donald Marion Hollacnd
Louise.Moses H6llon
Emily Adams Holt
Joseph Horner, Jr.
Helen Lucile Hoy
Gertrude Nashi iHunawill




I58


JUNE MIiEE7TING, 1911


Wilma Emma Hurd.
Marion Eilizabeth -lurley
Russell Claudius Hussey
Sophie Elizabeth 1Hutzel
Mamie ' Carrie.Hyde
Ella \ly! -lynians
1essie Randall Ince
James Knox Jamison
Mlary Blanchard Jefferds
Alta Elizabeth Johnston
Grace Etelka Jones
McClellan Gibby Jones
Catherine 'Dorrs King
Julia Isabel Knapp
Grace Elizabeth Koons
William Henry Kuhr
Robert- Edward Kusterer
Francein Needham Lacey
Ewart Bruce Laing
George Starr Lasher
Miary Elmire La Vigne
Harriet Lawrence
Mabel Carrie Lawrence
James Frederick Lawton
George Michael Lehman
Gladys Sarah Lewis
Charlotta Helen Lindstrom
Flora Ralston Linn
Leo Frederic Long
Arthur Charles Luchtman
Myron'Robert Lugibihl
Norman Luneke
Lulu- Franck MicCreery
Clay Christopher Macdonald
Mae M. McNamara
Elizabeth Frederika Marlatt
Charles' Wilder Marsh
Phil,Lewis iMarsli
Blanche Elizabeth \'Iartin
Florence Marx
Alexina Meier
Donald Franklin Melhorn
Elsie. Mess
Woodlbridge Metcalf
Christian Purtscher Morris
Samuel H-enri Morris
Frieda.Adaline Morse
Mae Lucy Mios'her
Mary Octavia Muilheron
Florence 'Bernardine Mur —
phy
Maurice Clark Myers
Peter James iMyers
Harry Glenn M-yser
Flora Louise Nadeau
Clarence Arthtir Nelis


John Prewitt Nelson
Lulu Mlarie Newlon
Perry Frederick Nichols
Clara Luella Nissly
Robert Nasl Ogden, Jr.
H-lenry Ottenhelimer
H1ilda Belle Ox)b
\l ariori Packard
Anna Soults Parks
Daniel Westlake Parsons
Beulah Laurietta Pascoe
Jessie Davina Paterson
Marion Laura Paton
Harold Frink Pelham
Richard Harold Perkins
Julia:Mary Phillips
Robert Arnold Piatt
Franklin Brown Powers
Tlhede Canwell Preston
Roy H. Puterbaugh
Leta Anna Rains
Ethel Anna Reese
Henry Rhetta
Bel Ribble
Mildred Ella Richmlond
Coral Deborah Rix
Clarence H. Royon
Raleigh Schorling
Edwin William Schreiber
Lewis William 'Schroeder
Harley LeRoy Sensemann
Burke Woods Shartel
Florence Elizabeth Sherwood
John Theron Short
Richard James Simmons
Ralph Waldo Simpson
Elsie May Sisman
Mary Kathleen Sleator
Howard Rea Smith
Lida Mae Smith
Margaret Inglis Smith
Barbara Snure
Irelie Snvder
Stephen Douglas Sparks
Mabel Suitton Spencer
Marian Nettie Spencer
Leon Steinberg
Alice Virginia Sterling
Violet Marie Stevens
Genevieve Lynn Stimson
Ernest 'Stirwalt
Cora Louise Stoddard
Gladys 'Maree 'Strelinger
Jolhn - Cornelius Sullivan
Jennie May Surdam




JUNE 1/EETING, 1911 


I59


Grace Isabella Sutherland
Sarah Hitt Sutherland
William Bestor Tallman
Vesta Belle Taylor
Gertrude Teninga
Grace Edna Torrey
George Lewis Towne
Carlos Luis Traverso
Mary Alice Ulrich
Alice Lombard Vail
George C Van Duren
Warren Jay Vinton
Ethel Volland
Fred Burkhart Wahr
Earle M2anton Wakefield
Frances Sylvia Walbridge
Gerafd M. Walker
Edward Joseph 'Walsh
Harry LeVerne Ward
Matud Ethel Watson
John 'Potter Webster
Stanfield McNeill Wells


Edward Christopher Wente
Harold Arnold Wentworth
Ruth Vee WVheelock
Walter Gerould Whipple
Orville Ernest White
Beulah Grace Whitney
Harold Edward Williams
Kittie Louise Williams
Gretta Rose Wilner
Lou Lydia Wilson
Annie Pearl Windsor
Norman TMcGarvey Wittet
Charles Christian Witthoeft
Pauline Anna Wittwer
Marian Edith Woessner
Albert Joseph Wohlgemuth
Mary Jessie Wood
Henry Guy \Voodward
Alice Marian Wyman
Hector Stewart Young
Samuel Alpheus Zook


MASTER OF SCIIENTC  (IN FORESTRY).
Ngan Han, A.B., Corn ell
University
MASTER OFI SCIENCE.


Mark Edson Putnam, A.B.,
Albion College


John Henry Wright, Ph.C.,
B. S. (Phar.)
Pauline Wurster, A.B.


MASTER OI ARTS.


Hazel Edith Alward, A.B.,
Olivet College
Lew Allen Chase, A.B.
Carl Jenness Coe, A.B.
Grace Almeda Crooks, B.L.,
Albion. College
Charle's Scott Dunford,
A.B., Ohio Wesleyan University
Ruth Alden Fifield, A.B.,
Vassar College
Ida: May   Forsythe, B.S.,
Muslkinguiun College
Howard Vanton Foulk, A.
B,, University of Kansas
Thusnelda, Georg, A.B.
Lvman Curtis Guise, A.B.,
University of Kansas
Edithi HaIaley, A.B., Olivet
College


Willis E. H1anson, Ph.B.,
Albion College
Peter Hoekstra, A.B.
Charles Roy Holsinger, A.
B., lMoltut Morris College
Eva Ellen Huffman, A.B.,
University of Illinois
James Scott Johnston, A.B.
Paul Allen Leidy, A.B.
Leta Leigh, A.B.
Lucille Rodney Liondisay,
A.B., St. Malry's. College
(Notre Dame, IJd.i)
Marion Walter Longman,
A. B., Albion' College
Raymonid Earl Manchester,
A.B.
Juliuls Herbert Moelltr,
A.B:




l6o


JUNE MEETING. I911


Burgess Salnk, B.S., Cornell iUn iersity
William  Warner    Sleator,
A.B.
Jean Paul Slusser, A.B.
Eva Florence Stahl, Ph.B.,
Silipson College
Bertha Elizabeth Stockinger, A.B., Inldiana University
Katharine Taylor, A.B.,
Vasssar College


Grace Agnes Thomas, A.B.,
lWestern Marylalnd  College
Frank Gerow    Tompkins,
A.B.
Louise Pauline Weinmannl,
A.B.
Etthelyn Gertrude Wh;iete,
A.B., Bates College
Lee A W\hite, A.B.
H:orace Zephaniah Wilber.
A.B.


DOCTOR O0 PHILOSOPHY.


William  Orville Mendenhall, A.B., Penn College,
A. M/., ibid, A.B., HIaverford College


Charles Milton Perry, A.B.,
A2lbion College
Archie Garfield Worthing,
A.B., University of MWisco isiln


On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts teachers' diplomas were awarded to the following persons:


Alice Dunning  Adams
Iva Dell Adams
Marguerite Eilzabeth  Adams.
Carrie Belle Andrus
Claribel Armitage
Vivian D. Baker
Edith Loraine Bandfield
Kathleen Marguerite
Beardsley
Rosa Bell
Olive Benbrook
Elizabeth Catherine Benjamin
Herman Brosowska
Dorothy Miles Brown
Eilene Mac Browne
Hazel Estelle Carter
Katrina Mary Caughey
Marj'orie Chaney
Laura Esther Christensen
Conscello Jessellen Cole
nAmaryllis Marie Cote'r
Irene Pearl' Crawford
rFthur Eugene Curtis
tIoreence Ada Davis
Julia Aurelia Dayis
Charlotte Theiss Denfeld


Harriet Carlton Dickinson
Jay Karl Ditchy
Evelyn Mary Dougherty
Alice Gertrude Duncan
Clara Harrison Stranahlan
Ely
Arthur Gottfrid Erickson
Millison Cutler Farr
Mary Teresa Farrell
Bertha Louise Fischer
Juliette Irene Finn
Laura Mary Finkbeiner
Ina Fox
Vera Elaine Fox
Gladys Elizabeth Gillette
Laura Leona Gillette
Chauncey Lloyd Goodricl
Margaret Elizabeth Gould
Lena Mabel Griswold
Edith Hadley
Elenore Minerva Hague
Lora Wilhelmine Hall
Sue Ortha Hamilton
Claude Hezekiah Harper
Helen Rowan Harper
Elizabeth Helen Harris
Roy' 'Sanford Hea d
Martha Belle H:etzel




JUNE MEETING, 191Ir


Florence Jane Hill
Emily Adams Holt
Helen Lucile Hoy
Gertrude Nash Hunawill
Marion Elizabeth Hurley
Mamie C. Hyde
Ella May Hymans
Alta Elizabeth Johnston
Grace Etelka Jones
McClellan Gibby Jones
Julia Isabel Knapp
Martin Edwin Knoll
Francein Needham Lacey
Mary Elmire LaVigne
Mabel Carrie Lawrence
Gladys Sarah Lewis
Mlarion Walter Longman
Arthur Charles Luchtman
Norman Lunteke
Elizabeth Frederika Marlatt
Florence Marx
Alexina Meier
Frieda Adaline Mi\iorse
Mae ILucy Mosher
Florence Bernardine Mrphy
Flora Louise Nadeau
Clara Luella Nissly
Hilda Belle Oxby
Jessie.Davina Paterson
Julia Mary Plillips
Roy H. Puteribaugh
Leta Anna Rains
Ethel Anna Reese


Bel Ribble
Mildred Ella Richmond
Coral Deborah Rix
Lee Vincent Romig
Raleigh Schorlingi
Lida Mae Smith
Margaret Inglis Smith
Marian Nettie Spencer
Myrta Stafford (Harris)
Alice Virginia Sterling
Violet Marie Stevens
Genevieve Lynn Stimson
Ernest Stirwalt
Cora Louise Stoddard
Gladys Maree Strelinger
Grace Isabella Sutherland
Vesta Belle Taylor
Gertrude Teninga
Henson Hoff Thomas
Grace Edna Torrev
Carlos Luis Traverso
Alice Lombard Vail
Ethel Volland
Adelbert Merret Walsworth
Matd Ethel Watson
Ethelyn Gertrude White
Beulah Grace Whitney
Kittie Louise Williams
Harold Edward Williams
Annie Pearl 'Windsor
Marian Edith Woessner
Mary Jessie Wood


On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recotnmmendation of the Faculty of the Departmlentt of Medicitie and
Surgery, the degree of Doctor of MNedicine was conferred
upon the foilowing persons:


Harry Loren Arnold, A.B.
Edward Murray Atier
Lee Willis Barry
Wiiiiiam.tscar Benjamin
Francis Joseph Adolph Bennett
Michael Frederick Brond-.'stette,.i- 
tleiin Blish Carpenter
Harry Linford, Cooper
Roy Hetry    Crissey,. B.S.,
Ph.G., Ph.C.; Ohio Nort1hFeran UdM   de Jan,  Jit
Fernando de Juan, Jr.


Ludwig Frank Derfus, A.B.
Stuart Lloyd DeWitt
William H-arrison Dickson
Bertram Foster Duckwall
Frank Nathaniel Evans
H1arold Kniest Faber, A.B.,
Harztvard Uaiivei sitv
Vera Placida Gardiier A.B.,
Univ 'sity. of Soithieri
California
Jaimes Anthony Guilfoil.,
Thbfias Edwiard.Ha'ei:tt
Thomas IFrancis Heatley.
Robert Gray HendersPoni




162


JUNE MLEETING, 191


Harry   Galloway  Herring,
B.S., Georgetowni College
Leroy Wetmore Hull, A. B.
Charles John Jenitgen
Robert Gray Johnston, A.B.
Floyd Harding Jones, A.B.
Alvini Lorie
Charles Reuben Lowe
Vernor Milo Moore, A. B.
Ralph iRichard Morrall
Arthur Stone Needles, A.B.,
University of Colorado
Bertram   Heury   Olmsted,
B. 'S.,' Buicknell University.
Axel Alexander Personen
Dana Cecil Post
Daniel Edgar Pugh, Jr.,
A.B.
Augustus Glover Purvis,
A.B.


Minnie Mary Rohn
Harry Burke Schmidt
Charles Wlliam Schoregge
Harold Schwartz
Ward F. Seeley, A. B.
Richard Eugene Sinkey
Glenn Taylor Soule
Reuel James Tanquary,
A.B.
Lloyd Earl Tefft
Wilmer Everett Toney,
A.B.
Theodore Adolph Tosch
Perry C. Traver
Peter Vermeulen
Jay Dykhuis Vyn
Don Dickinson Weaver
Gordon Fay Willey A.B.
Paul Bart'holomew  Work,
A.B.


On) motion of R.egent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the School of Pharmacy, degrees
were conferred as follows-:
PHARMACtEUTICAL CHIaEMIST.


Guy Gibson Bailey
James Wal'ter Bertrand
Ernest R. Crandall
Premananda Das
Clifford L. Dougherty
Harry S. Fist
Luther James Graves
Saul Greenbaum
Frank LeRoy Haley, Ph.G.
Albal.ny College of Pharin acy.
Edgar Lowell Holden
Morris Johnson Hollenbeck
Burdette Francis Hubbard,
Jr.
Frederick Fremont Ingram,
Jr.


Ethan Edward Lauer
George E. Lohirstorfer,
as o'f the class of I896
Leon Wade Martin
Ernest J. Parr
Angel Maria Pesquera
Roy Webster Pryer
Roderick Alphonso Reeves
Charles Herbert Rogers
Phar.B., St. Louis College
of Phairmacy.
Frank Markley Schad
Chester Albert Struby
Abel Robert Todd, Ph.G.,
Valparaiso University.
John Vaupell
James Martin Westveld
Caroline IKate Wvll.ie


BACHELOR Or, SCIrNCE (in Pharmacy.)


Harry Marsten Adams
Nancy 'Adelaide 'Childs
Saul Greenbaumi
Frank" LeRoy Haley, Ph.G.,
Albany College of Pharmacy.


Frederick Fremont Ingram,
Jr.
Julius Kramer
Fleeta Alberta Lamb
Roy Webster Pryer
Kenneth VWilliam Tracy
Ph.C.




JUNE ilMEE TING, 1I91 II


I63


On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery, degrees were conferred as follows:
DOCTOR OF' DENTAL SURGERY.


Edward John Atkin'son
Charles Oliver Bechtel
George William   Bechtold
Carl Edward Bertrand
Guy Cole Britten
Charles Leon Brown
Harold Watkins Brown
Carl Arthur Bumstead
Martin Leo Byrne
John Campbell
Norman Robert Carter
Neil Tylee Clark
Carlyle Bruce Cleland
Frank Clyde Cole
IHarry Hayes Coomer
Frank David Craig
Joseph Nichols Crandall
Milton Alfred Darling
Laurance Morgan Duncan
John B. Dwyer
Michael Frank Evans
Charles Everett Fowler
Edward Shutts George
Laurence George Grossman
Russell Alger Hart
Roy George Hayward
Robert Karl Hoffman
Arthur Austin Holliss
August Herman Hoppel
Robert Ellison Irvan
Walter Johnson
Edwin Moore Kennedy
Elias Kloosterman
Harry Glenn Lyon


Frederick Richard M-acGrail
Archibald John MacLeod
Hugh Edward McPhillips
Guy Eustis Markley
Lloyd Wiellington Marlin
Harry Lee Miller
Clark Truesdall Mixer
Claude Merrill Moore
William  Frederick, Northrup.
Fred Cecil Palmer
Roy Hampton Purdly
Earl F. Randolph
George B: Rkawdon
Charles Everett Read
Leo Patrick Regan
Lloyd Rogers
Tine Roozendaal
Frederick McVainR Rose
Sandy Rund
Arthur Hugh Ruthven
Thomas Harold Ryan
Burr Orville Sabin
Ernest Schatzle
Theron Sylvestei Sliaw
Angel Santiago Sifre
Lourens AATalter Smithi
William  H. Thwaites
Rafael Eduardo Torregrosa
James Warner Travis
John Adrian Van KIleCeylon Frank W\aters


DOCTOR OF DENTAL SCIENCE.
Chalmers J. Lyons, D.D.S.
On motion of Regent Grant, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law, deglrees
were conferred as follows;
BACHELOR OF LAWS.


Roy Jackson Adair
Clarence James Agnew,
A.B.
John Ludwig Anderson


Carl William Andre
Thomas Henry Armstrong
Shirley Samuel Atkin
Leavitt DeCamp Averill




i64


JUNE MEETING, I9 r1


Robert Shirley Ballard
William Johnson Bane
Charles Albert Bank
Guy Leslie Barchus
Neil Preston Beall
Joseph Boris Beckenstein
Benjamin Elwood Berg
Charles Pratt Berger
Charles Wallace Bingham
George Hudlsoh Bookwalter
Walter Myrle Bott
Rockwood Smithl Brown
Merle Glenn Campbell
Sydney   Buchainan  Carragan, A.B., Yale Universitv
Thomas Gavin     Chambers,
Jr.
John \Wayne Chapman
Will J. Clarke, Jr.
Clarence Roe Clutte
Glenn Copple
Austin Marcus Cowan
Ralph Waldo Cowd;en
Charles Latimore Cunningham.
James Henry Daly
Joseph Abner Davis
Umbert Thomas DeMartini
Francis Bernard DeVine
Ravmond Gernerd Diefender fer.
Tyson   Dines, Jr., A. B.,
Yale University.
Williani M.iiiton Donnelly,
A. B., Yale University
WVilber Frank Downs
Warrei    JosephI   Duiffey,
A.M., St. Johils College
Raymonld K. Dykema
Benjamin   Rudolph   Eggeman, A. B.
Fred DeWitte Ensminger
Elmer Ellsworth Erb, A.B.,
Lebanlon Valley College.
A B Feldmlan
Walter WVelity Ferris
Benjamii Ha:ri-ison Fisher
Harry Clayton Fraser, A.B.
Jesse Wilfred Frenz
Samuel Friedman
Paul Victor Gadola
Herbert.Evei'eltt Gernert
Walter Edward Glaks'
Roy Edwtin Gri-'e
Oliver Case Gre:"g


Wylie Reed Griffin
Orville King  Grimstad
Samuel Gubin
William Friederick HIas;
A.B.
Roy Herbert Hagerman
Gilbert Jackson Hainline
WVinfield Scott lHanila
Willard Blaine Hatch
Carl R. Henry
John Oswald Herbdld
Albert John Hetchler
Richard Hill Jr.
Rudolph Edward Hofelich
Michael Terrance Hughes
Robert Thornley Hughes
David Eugene Hunt
Ralph Jay Hurlburt
Edward Jacob Kautz, A.B.,
B.S., Ohio Northerin University.........
Cecil Edward Kell
John Titus Kenny, A.B.
Frie'daa Kleinstiick, A.B.
Edward Bernard Klewer
Emil Heiry Koehl
Joseph  Frederick Kropidlowski
Perry Arthur Kuhn, Jr.
Ralph Burdette Laicey, A.B.
Andrew Jackson Lang
Oscar Robei't Laraway
George Morrison Lawton.
Williaiii Burnham  Leavitt
Arthur Eugene Leen
George Michael Lehman
Jay L. Lewis
Charles -Herbert Lillie
James Bruice Liinsday
John Louis Loell
George Henry Lowe
LeRoy Churchill Lyon
Hugh Stanley McCall
Charles James McFadden
Jo0hn  artinl M;cHale
Michael Brennan McHugh,
A.B.
Ralphl  Porter  Mackenzie,
A.B., Yale Uhnmivoersity
Charles  Henrv   Mah6ney,
A.B., Fisk Ulniersity
Chrirs Maichele
Merritt Clark Miason
Edgar John Ma;t.
Lewis Frederick Mayhood
Charls:Federick Meyl er




JUNE MEETING, Ig11


Leon William Miller, A.B.
James Mitchell Modarelli
Edwin Raymond Monnig
William Wallace Montgomery
Oscar Mumbaugh
John Clyde Murray.
Richard Westfield Nebel
John Andrew Neelands
Clinton Jones Nelson, A.B.
Oscar Charles Nelson
Robert Enme't Mark Nolan
Ralph Mitchell Norrington
Richard Loomis North
Victor Hugo Nysewander
Albert   Teltler  Orahood,
A.B., University of Colorado
Stanley Rea Ostler
Ralph Masoh Ostrander
George Proctor Parker
John McAuliffe Parks
Elbern Parsons
John Emory Parsons, Jr.
Orin Merle Peters
Spencer Arthur Phelps
Hugh Morehead Pinkerton
William Paul'Pinkerton
Hugh Robert Porter, A.B.
Clau'de Lucius Post
Frederick Nicholas Prass
Johfni Storrs Prescott
John Hosie Price, A.B.
George LaVerne Rauch
Robert Morrison Reid
Luke Caldwell Rhoads
Thomas Nicholas Robinson
Nils Altric Ruonavaara
Verne V. Ryon


Clyde Clark Sanders
Arthur 'Campbell Scates
Reuben Albert 'Schmidt
William Richard Schneider
Arthur Schueler
Leslie Preston Scott
Wi.liiam Stirling iS'eelye
Rudolph. Vogel Shakes,
A.B.
James Gifford Sheppard
Kate tSheppard
Merrill Emanuel Silverstein
William Irvin Sims, LL.B.,
University of Texas
Amor Paul Smith
Charles A. Smith
Earle Kezartee Stanton
George Theodore Sitine
Henry Stevens Sweeny
Chester Wallace    Tacka-,berry.
Elwyn Milo Tanner
Herbert LeRoy Thompson
Lindsay Levant Thompson
Daniel Robert Triplehorn
Burton Alden 'Tyler
Don Vander Werp, A.B
Chester H:arrison VanWinkle, A.B., Illintois College
Herman Solvadore Vaubel
Alfred Julius Verlheyen
Harry Ellsworth Vernon
Austin Thomas Walden',
A.B., A tlantta UniversityW:i'fred Ruland Wal'tner
Harris William Wienner
Paul Morton Wishon
Harry Wellingfton Witters
Fred Sanborn Zick


JURIS DOCTOR.


Arthur James Abbott, A.B.
Maurice   Everett   Allen,
S.IB., Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Leon Milburn Bailey, A.B.
Edwin Laurence Baker Jr.,
A.B.
Howard L. Barkdull, A.B.
Charles Cleveland Becher,
'A.B.
Allen McKee Bond, A.B.,
Princeton University
Bruce John Broady, A.B.


Henry Alphonse Bundschu,
A.B.
Isaac 'Stephen Coe, A.B.
Raymond McCague Crossman, B.S., Bellevue. College
Alfred Liebert Devos, A.B.
Benjamin Harrison Dewey,
A.B.
Edmund Charles Dickinson,
A.B. Earlham College
Clarence Ernest Eldridge,
A.B.




i66


J UNE 1 ifEETING, 19 11


George Newton Fake, A.B.,
iHanilton College
Joseph Fletcher Goldsberry,
A.13B.
Carl Blackwood Grawn,
A.B.
Thoiomas Hubert Lewis, Jr.,
A.B., lYeste rnil arIlald
Collegc
Harry Clendennon Miller,
A.B.
Leon Floyd Miner, A.B.


W\;esley Branch Rickey,
B.L., Ohio Vesleyan Unliz'er sity, A.B., ibid
McKee Robison, A.B.
Delos Abiram Shiner, A.B.
Fred Joseph Slater, Ph.B.,
Uniiversity of Rochester
Hliram Richard Smith, A.B.
Lyman Oliver Stewart,
A.B., Washlburn College
Clarence Ernest Wampler,
A.B.


On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Engineering, degrees were conferred as follows:


BACHELOR OF SCIENC$
Mervin Kaufman Baer,
A.B.
Dwi-ht O. Becker
Samuel J Bell
Clyde Willard Colby
Herbert Luther Connell
Ralph Arthur DeLine
Fred Victor Dunlap
Laurence Ivan Hale
Harold Wheeler Holmes
Herman Kenneth Kugel
Frank Harman Linthicum
Alexander Nelson Lund


(in Engineering.)
Henlry W illiam Meier
Robert Norris
Fred Lloyd Orser
Cecil Dwight Parsons
William Ars6ne Payne
Basil Franklin Pontey
Charles Henry Poole
Roy Wilson Ranney
Arthur Laurence Reaghl
Cleon Perry Spangler
Harold Orcutt Washburn
William  Somers Wicker


BACHtLOR O ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING.
Dorr Rice Martin
BACHELOR OF ARCHITECTURE.


Thomas Doniphan Best
Warren iSamuel Holmes,
A.B.


Walter Edward Lentz
Winthrop Ramsdell Scott


BACHELOR OF MARINE ENGNEERING.


Seabourn Rome Livingstone
Wendel Jolhn Meyer
Donald Plummer Molony


Gustavus Richard   O'Connor
Earle 'Moore Porter
Nelson'Louis Van Tol


BACHELOR 01 CHEMIICAL ENGINEERING.


Verner A. Belcher
John Foster Clark
Volney. Robbins Croswell
Frank Carl Damskey


Charles Newman Dawe
Louis Ralph Eastman
Harry Elmer Frost
Harry Myers George




JUNE MlEETING, 19" 


I67


William  Henry Gerhauser
John Wilson Hacker
William Bedford Francis
Hurley
Rex Johnlson, B.S. in E.
Herman Guy Kiefer
Charles Fitch Landsheft
Lawrence Ross McNamee
Walter Lee Main


Albert Broadus Newman,
A.B.
Carl Frederick Raiss., Jr.
Edward Hodges Robie
Sidiney Moses Schott
William Henry Schenk
Harrison Arthur Small
Henry Levi Ward, A.B.


BACHELOR OF ELECT'RICAL ENGINEERING.


Elwyu Curtis Balch
Owen Werner Bauer
Clarence Arthur Bird
Remsen Bishop
Joseph Samuel Bowman
Harry Eugean Brelsford
Alva Benson Clark
Wirt lEdward Darrow, A.B.
Charles Pembroke Grimes
Charles James Haynes
Philip 'Conrad Haynes
Paul Virginius Johnston
Lloyd. Marley Keller
George Solon Kiehle
Benoit Leland Leger
Luther John Leidig
Allen Clyde Linsday
James Harry Lobban
Howard Morton IMcCulloch


J. William Nord
Glenn Harrison Norquist
H-arold Bradley Phillips
HTarrie Dean Rilev
Karl Rose
Samuel Schenkel
Francis  Anthony iSchneiders
Charles Farquhar Shaw
Harry Alfred Snow
Howard Raynolds 'Stearns
Leigh James Stephenson
Laurence Hurd Thomas
Fred Alan Tucker
Theod:ore  Casimir  Emile
van Manen
Albert   Smallev  William
Walker


BACHELOR Or MEICHANICAL ENGINEERING.


Albert Persons Allen
Clinton Buell Baker
James MacAllen Ballentine
Charles Eugene Bassett
James Robert Bazley
Charles Holbrook Benedict
Matthew Rhodes Blish
Charles  Christian  Bundschu
Orrin Otis ICarpenter
Ray J. Carroll
George Byron Emerson
John Stevenson Erskine
Robert Stevens H-ammond
Leslie Maxwell Harris
Osmond Dord Heavenrich
Arthur Kemp Howell, B.S.,
Syracuse University
George Satterlee Jacobs
William  Stanley Johnston


Otto Clinton Keliher
Fred Herbert Kern
Andrew Lewis Kimball
Harry M aurice M adf!arllane
Warner Jay McRae
Harold Irving Markey
Arthur Albert Misch
Louis Augustus Offer
Edward Sumner Raynees
Irving John Scherer
Bruno Schroeter
Jay Willard Snyder
Charles Gordon Spice
Ray LaMar Spitzley
Benjamin William   Sprau
Roy Ellsworth Sutton
Alllison Walker
James Herbert Walker
Solon Wilhelm Webb




i68


JUNE IVEETING, 19:1I


BACHELOR 01, CIVIL ENGINEERING.


Hlarry Bouchard
Edward Morris Burd
Ralphl Emerson Burg
Franklin' Henry Chapin
Martin Paul Cogswell
Walter Louis Connelly
William Amon DaLee
Paul Ashmore Daniells
Dwight Arlington Davis
Frank Earle Dodge
Elmer Gay Fuller
Leslie Drew' Goddard
James Raymond Green
Charles Ellett Hart
Cornelius Langston Henderson
Clarence Paul Hucke
John Raymond James
Philip Wheeler Kniskern
Ralph: Ray Leffler
Walter John Lehner
Loren.Robert Mahville
Roy Edwin Mattern


Irving Victor Maurer
Will'iam  Mi o n t g o in e r y
MVitchell
Mlarquis Elwood Older
Thomas Frederick Older
Eri Olmstead
Manley Osgood
Clifford Emmiett Paine
Ralph Hildreth Pardee
Lyle George Parrott
Hughi Marion Pierce, B.E.E.
Robert Armstrong Radford
William Henry Richards
Harold Chamberlain Richardson
Arthur Jay ISchamehorn
Leslie Alexander Simpson
Fred Stanley Slagle
Lawrence Dell Stratton
Seneca Vern Taylor
Guy Bradford Treat
Vernon Palmer Turnburke
Jick Gam Wong


BACHELOR O: SCIENCt (in Architecture.)
Lillian Pearl McOmber
BACHELOR Or SCIENCE (in Electrical Engineering.
George Moseley Chandler
as of the class of I898
BACHtLOR Os SCIENCE (in Mlechanical Engineering.)
Howard Earle Coffin            Clyde Elmore Wils'on
as of the class of 1903        as of the class of I905
BACHELOR Or SCIENCt (in Civil Engineering.)


James Baird
as of the class of I896


George Henry Harris,
as of the class of 1902


MASTE:R or SCIENTCE: (in Engineering.)


Franz Joseph Lemmerz,
B.S. (M.E.)


Carl iSchacht, B.S. (M.E.)


On motion of Regent Hanchett,, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical
College, degrees were conferred as follows:
DOCTOR O' IMEDICINE.
Dean -Kirtley Armstrong      Edward Percy Case, Ph.B.,
Fred Levi Arner                Lafayette College
Robert Bailey                Lloyd Gamble Cole




JUNE MEE.i TING, I9II


I69


Allen Henry Dunton          William Denton.Rowland
Arthur Randolph Ernst       William Waldo Schairer
Fred' Browne  Grosvenor,    Leo Frank Secrist
A.M., Ohio State Univer-   Grover  Lawrence  Ve rsity                        planke
Mildred Theresa Lee
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:
Resolved, That the Purchasing Department of the University of Michigan be authorized to purchase for the
Commencement reception of said institution cut flowers
at a cost not to exceed $4.
On motion of Regent Grant, the honorary degree of
Doctor of Laws was conferred on President I-arry Pratt
Judson, of the University of Chicago. (See list of honorary
degrees, Appendix A.)
On motion of Regent Grant, the following were excused
from attendance at Commencement:
Assistant Professor John W. Bradsihaw.
Assistant Professor Ewald A. Boucke.
Assistant Professor Louis C. Karpinski
Professor S. Lawrence Bigelow.
Mr. William A. Frayer.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:
Resolved, That Professor Otis Cole Johnson be recommended to the Trustees of the Carnegie Foundation for
the Advancement of Teaching for the normal retiring allowance.
On motion of Regent Leland, Professor A. I-I. White
was excused from attendance at Commencement.
Regent Hubbard presented the following communication from Dean Cooley regarding gifts received by the Department of Engineering. On motion of Regent Hubbard,
the communication was received for record and the thanks
of the Board were voted to the various donors:
I have the honor to bring to the attention of the Regents the following donations to the Department of Engineering and to recommend that the thanks of the Regents
be tendered& for the same.




170


JUNE MIEETING, I91 -

To the Departmenlet of M1echanical Engineeritng.
i Edwards Air Pump, twin type, belt driven; also complete
set of oilers for same.
I Stoker Engine-Oscillating Kriebel.
Presented by the Edison Illuminating Co., Detroit.
I Water Turbine, Impulse Type.
Presented by Allis-Chaltmers Co., Milwaukee, Wis.
142 Square feet 3 in. Nonpareil Sheet Cork.
Presented by Armstrong Cork Co., Pittsburg, Pa.
400 pounds Anhydrous Ammonia for Refrigerating Plant.
Presented by National Ammonia Co., St. Louis, Mo.
To the Departlment of Civil Engineering.
200 samples of paving brick, shown at the Convention of
the American Society of Municipal Improvements, held
in October, I910, at Erie, Pennsylvania.
Presentedl by National Paving Brick Manufacturers'
Association, Mr. Will P. Blair, Sec'y, 521-3 Board of
Trade Bldg., Indianapolis, Indiana.
To the Departmenlt of Stereotomiy, Mechanlism and Drawing.
since October, I909.
3 fine photographs, framed.
Presented by Browne & Sharpe Mfg. Co., Providence,
R. I.
I framed photograph-Shay Geared Locomotive.
Presented by Mr. L. Shay of the Lima Locomotive and
Machine Co., Lima, Ohio.
To the Departminent of Electrical En gineering (-during year
1910.)
I 4I2 ft. by 7 ft. Map of the United States, showing toll lines
of the Bell System.
Presented by Michigan State Telephone Co., Detroit.
Samples of Black Enameled 'Wire.
Presented by the American Electric Fuse Co., Muskegon, Michigan.
To the Engineering Shops (I9IO-II.)
Case of Abrasive Wheels-in oak case with glass front.
Presented by the Norton Co., Worcester, 'Mass.
93 Gross miscellaneous machine screws.
7,000 miscellaneous cap and set screws.
Presented by Chicago Screw Co., through its Secretary,
Mr. E. H. Ehrman ('88 B.S.M.E.) 13-15 North Jefferson St., Chicago, I11.




JUEN1E MlIEE TINAG, ipI 


i7I


To the Department of Masrine Engilnering (I9II.)
A six-foot pitot tube and manometer to be used in connectOn with experimental work on measurement of air
velocities.
Pesented by American Blower Co., Detroit, Mich.
To the Department of Chemical Engineeriug (since October
I909) for Museum of Chemical Technology.
Boiler tubes showing boiler scale and corrosion.
Presented by Harrison Safety Boiler Works of Philadelphia, Wm. B. Scaife & Sons Co., Pittsburg, Pa.
Samples Illustrating Worsted and Woolen Industry.
Presented by J. W. Barnes, Harpham & Barneg, Boston.
Dyes and Sample Dye Books.
Presented by Badische Co., New York, Schoellkopf,
Hartford & Hanna, Buffalo, N. Y.
Coal Tar Products.
Presented by Barrett Mfg. Co., Philadelphia,
Glass for Optical and Chemical Purposes.
Bausch & Lomb Optical Co., Rochester, N. Y.
Wire Glass and Figured Rolled Glass.
M\ississippi Glass Co., St. Louis, Mo.
Varnish Mianufacture and Bleaching of Shellac.
Berry Brothers, Detroit, Mich.
WVhitte Lead Manufacture
Carter White Lead Co., Chicago.
National Lead Co., New York.
Starch, Glucose and Corn Products.
Corn Products Refining Co., Chicago.
Huron Milling Company, Harbor Beach, Mich.
Graphite Crucibles and Products.
Jos. Dixon Crucible Co., Jersey City, N. J.
flire Brick and Refractory Materials.
Evens & Howard Fire Brick Co., St. Louis, Mo.
Harbison-Walker Refractories Co., Pittsburg, Pa.
Laclede-Christy Clay Products Co., St. Louis, Mo.
Soap,-a very complete exhibit showing raw materials, each
step in the process and finished products.
Globe Soap Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.
Thermit Welds on 'Steel Rails and Plates.
Goldscmidt Thermit Co., New York.
Graphite Products.
Acheson Graphite Co., Niagara Falls, N. Y.
Rock Plaster and Gypsum Products.
U. S. Gypsum Co., Chicago, Illinois.




172


JUNE MEETING, i9rr


Food Products.
Postum Cereal Co., Battle Creek, Mich.
Leather,-Spanish leather.
Mr. F. D. Shenk, Medford, Massachusetts.
Linseed Oil.
Spencer Kellogg Co., Buffalo, N. Y.
Petroleum Products.
Standard Oil Co., Cleveland, Ohio.
Chemical Acidproof Earthenware.
U. S. Stoneware Co., Akron, Ohio.
Borax Minerals and Products.
T;horkildeen-Mather Co., Chicago, Illinois.
Tiles for Walls, Floors and Mosaic.
American Encaustic Tiling Co., Zanesville, Ohio.
Pigments for paint manufacture.
Toch Brothers, New York.
Welssbach Mantles, and materials used in their manufacture.
Welsbach Light Co., Gloucester City, N. J.
Creosoted Wood 'Blocks.
U. S. Wood Preserving Co., New York.
Sulphuric Aci<d and By-products.
General Chemical Co., New York.
Sulphur, Crude and Refined.
Union Sulphur Co., New York.
Iron Ores for Analysis.;Oliver Iron Mining 'Co., Duluth, Miinnesota.
Rustless Iron.
The American Rolling 'Mill Company, Middletown,
Ohio, donated sufficient to cover the tables in the
ore grinding room.
On motion of Regent Leland, Treasurer Baker was
authorized to sign (I) receipts for two mortgages turned
over to the University by Mr. F. E. Tuttle, Executor of the
Estate of Emma J. Cole, deceased; (2) receipt to Mr. Tuttle
for $I20o in part settlement of claims against Miss Cole's
estate; and (3) a receipt for three notes for $Ioo each,
turned over as part settlement of the estate.
The Board took a recess for lunch.




JUNLE MEETING, I 19 'I


I73


AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock, all the members being present.
Dean Schlotterbeck, of the School of Pharmacyi appeared before the Board.
After the withdrawal of Dean Schlotterbeck, on motion
of Regent Leland, the Board voted that beginning with the
University year 1911-1912, Dean Schlotterbeck's salary
should he $300oo,-$5oo     for services as Dean, $2500 for
services in his Professorship.
Regent Hubbard presented a communication from Dean
Cooley, of the Department of Engineerng, transmitting the
following letter from  Professor A. H. White:
AM. E. Cooley, Dean,              November 15, I91O.
Department of Engineering,
University of Mlichigan.
My dear Sir: —I have received your letter of November 12 regarding list of donations to the University, and
beg to make the following report.
The Michigan Gas Association has for ten years maintained a research fellowship in gas engineering at the University. Four years ago, realizing that the work demanded
better facilities than were then at hand, they erected and
equipped an experiment station on the grounds of-the Ann
Arbor Gas Company to be used exclusively for our work.
A year after the completion of this plant the Association
doubled its floor arena, and last year again doubled the floor
space occupied, so that now we are occupying the whole
of a two story wing a:t the plant of the Ann Arbor Gas
Company containing about 1,500 square feet of floor space.
This building is equipped with a complete plant for condensing and purifying the gas taken;from one of the regular retorts of the Ann Arbor Gas Company, and for studying the effect of changes in method of operation. Its iaboratory is well equipped for the determination o'f the heat
value and candle power of the gas, and also for chemical
analyses. The Treasurer 'of the University reports that the
toal receipts from the Michigan Gas Association for the
-work have been $7,360, since the foundation of the fellowship; but since, in the earlier years of the work a coiisiderable number of bills were 'paid directly by the Association, the total amount of their contribution is larger than
this and I have estimated that the total amiount is' over




I74


JUNE MEETING, 191I


eight thousand dollars. The Association has contributed
about $800 a year for the last ten years, and last year contributed $I825, of which $I,ooo was for the addition to the
building and for new equipment. For the present year their
budget calls for an expenditure of $300 for the equipment
fund, and an amount between seven and eight hundred
dollars on current account, of which the holder of the fellowship will receive, as usual, $500.
During the earlier stages of the work part of the laboratory equipment at this experimental plant was loaned
by the University, but each year has seen part of the Universityequipment returned and new equipment 'purchased for
this work, so that the equipment at the present time has been
almost entirely purchased from  funds given by the Michigan Gas Association except in so far as it has been donated by outside parties. It is hard to estimate the reproduction cost of this plant since very much o'f the equipment
has been especially designed and donated for the purpose
by the manufacturers.  I should roughly place the reproduction cost of the plant in its present form as three thousand dollars.
It has been the intention of the 'Michigan Gas Association to place this equipment unreservedly at the disposal
of the University authorities, and they woulld have vested
the title to the equipment absolutely in the hands of the
University had it not been for the question, as to whether
the formalities surrounding  the disposal of. University
property might hamper the' freedom of work if it seemed
desirable to dispose of any of the property. This plant is
in every respect an experimental plant. It is strictly original, there being no similar plant in this country from
whose experience we could profit. It has, therefore, been
necessary to remodel it frequently and extensively. 'As an
instance of this I may cite the fact that we are now installing an electrically driven high speed centrifugal fan
to suck the gases through the system after having discarded
three 4different types of mechanical exhaustors which, after
thorough experiment have proven 'unsuitable for the purpose. It was feared that this procedure of scrapping apparatus might be complicated if it belonged to the State,
so that it was decided that it would be wiser 'for the title
to technically rest with the Michigan Gas Association.  I
do not think that any report of the activities of the fellowship has been formally rendered to the Board of Regents
in the last eight years.  During this time the Michigan




JUNE MEETING, I911


175


Gas Association has contributed to the work about eight
thousand dollars in cash, and an amount of expert service
on the part of its Committee which cannot be estimated in
money.
During the past year the Lloyd Construction Company
has donated a "Control" for keeping constant pressure on
the gas mains, whose value is, I presume, $200. Mr. James
T. Lynn of Detroit has also donated a 2-horse power
motor for the work. I have before alluded to the item of
one thousand dollars contributed by the Michigan Gas
Association for the extension of the plant and equipment
last year, and to the $300 which they have deposited with
the Treasurer of the University for new equipment this
year.
It is proper, also, to mention in this connection the cooperation of the U. S. Bureau of Mines, formerly the
Technologic Branch of the U. S. Geological Survey, which
has for three years co-operated with us in tests of gas coal
in so far as the wording of their appropriations permitted.
They have sampled at the mine all coals which we have
tested during the past three years, and have up to this year
paid the freight charges. They have also carried out in the
laboratories at Pittsburg chemical analyses of all coals, and
the coke made therefrom. They are continuing *this policy
during the presen.t year. We have just received -two cars
of coal, one of Pittsburg gas coal donated by the Pittsburg and Westmoreland iCoal Company, and one of 'Fairmount coal' donated by the Consolidation Coal Company.
These cars are being divided into a series of bins exposed
to the weather, and one bin of each will 'be tested every
year to determine the effect of weathering upon the properties of coal. This is considered quite an important test in view
of the fact that small scale tests have uniformly shown
very slight changes due to weathering, although the belief
is prevalent among practical users of coal that exposure
to the weather causes a very material change. It is hoped
that with our unique facilities we may be able to throw
some light upon this problem.
I would suggest that the thanks of the Board be returned to Mr. Henry W. Douglas, Manager of the' Ann
Arbor Gas Company, and to the Company itself, for allowng our plant to be erected' on their property and for freely
placing at our disposal all the facilities of their works.
Yours very truly,
(Signed)  ALFRED H. WI-IITE.
(Signed) M. E. COOLY.




I76


JUNE MEETING, I191r


On motion of Regent Hubbard, the thanks of the Board
were voted to the various persons and organizations mentioned for their co-operation in this work of the University.
On motion of Regent Beal, $ioo was added to the budget
of the Botanical Garden for the purchase of frames and
sashes in which to raise and develop the seedlings started in
the hot house during the spring for the use of the department of Landscape Design.
On motion of Regent Beal, Dr. Herbert D. Austin was
appointed Instructor in Romance Languages in the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, at the salary of
$1400, this salary being already provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. J. H. Ehlers was appointed to the Whittier Fellowship in Botany for the academic year 191i-1912.
On motion of Regent Beal, George LaRue, Ph.D., was
appointed Instructor in Zoology for the University year
I91I-1912 at the salary of $1200 as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Benjamin B. Wallace
was appointed Instructor in Political Science for the University year I911-1912 at the salary of $iooo as provided in
the budget.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following, who have
completed their course in the Training School for Nurses in
the University Hospital, were granted the usual certificates:
Edith Murray 'Wallace
Edith Emily Cole
Georgin.ia Dean Agens.
Elizabeth Irene Dougherty
Amy Brandt Hudson
On motion of Regent IIanchett, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the IIomoeopathic Medical
College, the degree of Doctor of. Medicine was conferred
upon Leo Frank Secrist, and he was excused from attendance at the Commencement exercises.
On motion of Regent Ianchett, the following appointments for the Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital
were made to positions already provided in the budget, for
the University year 191-I1912, except as stated:
William D. Rowland, Hospital Interne, salary.....$2oo.oo
William W. Schairer, Ho:spital Interne, salary...... 200.00




JUNE LMEETING, 19"1


I77


Arthur R. Ernst, Assistant to- Professor of Theory
and Practice, salary........................... 200.00
Howard B. Kinyon, Assistant to Professor of Gynaecology, to Jan. I, I912, salary at rate of...... 200.00
Corwin S. Clark, Assistant to Professor of Surgery, term  expires Oct. I, I9II, salary........ none
Wiliam R. Rhonehouse, Assistant to Professor of
Otolaryngology, etc., term  expires Oct. I, I91I,
salary........................................  none
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following recommendations by the Faculty, of the Department of Medicine and
Surgery were considered and appointments were made accordingly, the salaries having' been provided in the budget:
That Martin Judy be appointed assistant demonstrator
of Anatomy in place of Harry S. Tash, at the same salary,
$350.o0.
That Leonard Waterman, B.S., be appointed demonstrator of Anatomy in place of Carey P. McCord, at the
same salary, $350.00.
That Howard Russell Hartman be appointed assistant
demonstrator of Anatomy in place of Frederick M. Loomis,
at the same salary, $300.00.
That Lynn Arthur Hoag be appointed assistant. demonstrator of Anatomy in place of John H. Stokes, at the same
salary, $300.00.
That James Fleming Breakey, M.D., be reappointed
assistant in Dermatology, at the same salary, $300.00.
That Gordon Fay Willey, A.B., M.ID., be appointed Interne in Dermatology, at a salary of $125,00.
That George Morris 'Curtis, AM.A, be appointed assistant in Histology in place of Dr. Foden, resigned, at the
same salary, $700.00.
That Phil Lewis Marsh, A.B., be appointed assistant in
Histology in place of Dr. Ettinger, at the same salary,
$600.00.
That Roy Webster Pryer, B.S., be appointed assistant
in Hygiene in place of J. H. Wright, resigned, at the same
salary, $750.00.
That Chester Albert Struby, B.S., be appointed assistant in Water Analysis in place of R. W. Pryer, resigned,
at the same salary, $350.00.
That James Gordon Cumming, M.D., be reappointed assistant in Hygiene, in charge of the Pasteur Institute, at




178


JUNE MEETING., 9I


a salary of $I200.00. This increase of $2oo is provided for
'in the budget.
That Charles George Sinclair, B.S., be appointed assistant in the Pasteur Institute in place of Q. O. Gilbert, at,the same salary, $500.00.
That Harry Hrand Migerdich Malejan, A.B., be reappointed assistant in Bacteriology, at the same salary,
$500.00.
That William Alder Perkins be appointed assistant in
Bacteriology, at a salary of $300.00, provided for in the
budget.
That 'Chester Arthur Doty, B.S., be appointed assistant
in Physiological Chemistry, in place of W. E. Forsythe,
at the same salary, $600.00.
That Reed Chambers, B.S., be apponted assistant ill
Bacteriology and Holder of Scholarship in Rockefeller
Institute, without salary.
That George Lutz, Jr., be reappointed accountant and
laboratory assistant, at the same salary, $650.oo.
That Carl Vernon Weller, A.B., be appointed instructor in Pathology in place of Dr. R. L. Dixon, at the same
salary, $9oo.oo.
That Henry Lee Wenner, Jr., A.B., be appointed assistant in Physiology, at a salary of $300.00.
That Conrad Georg, Jr., A.B., M.D., be reappointed
demonstrator of Surgery, at the same salary, $500.00.
That Charles Lee Washburne, M.D., be appointed demonstrator of Orthopedics, at a salary of $500.00.
That John Hibbard Pettis, A.B., M.D., be appointed
chief of Surgical Clinic, at a salary of $Soo.oo.
That Frederick Rice Waldron, Ph.B., M.D., be reappointed first assistant in Surgery, at the same salary, $I5o.oo.
That Robert Gordon MacKenzie, A.B., M.D., be appointed second assistant in Surgery, at a salary of $200.00.
That Dana Cecil Post, M.D., be appointed third assistant in Surgery in place of Dr. Braley, resigned, without
salary.
That Floyd Earl Tefft, M.D., be appointed Interne in
Surgery, at a salary of $125.00.
That Edward Hayes Kelly be appointed Interne in
Pediatrics and Surgery in the Palmer Ward, at a salary
of $125.00.
That Almus A. Hale, be appointed Photographer and
X-Ray operator, at a salary of $1500.00.
That James Howard Agnew, A.M., M.D., be reappoint



JUNE MEETING, Ir9I


I79


ed first assistant in Internal Medicine, at the same salary,
$500.00.
That Carleton Ira Wood, A.B., be reappointed laboratorv assistant in Clinical Medicine, at the same salary,
$200.00.
That William Lyons, M.D., be reappointed assistant in
Pediatrics, without salary.
That Harry Burke Schmidt, M.D., be appointed Interne
in Internal Medicine, in place of Earl LeGrand W\ard, at the
same salary, $I25.00.
That Theophil Klingmann, Ph.C., M.D., be reappointed
demonstrator of Diseases of the Nervous System, at the
same salary, $500.o0.
That George M. Kline, M.D., be reappointed first assistant physician in the Psychopathic Hospital and assistant
in Psychiatry, without salary.
That Charles R. Lowe, M.D., be appointed Resident
Physician in the Psychopathic Hospital and assistant in
Psychiatry, in place of W. H. Gambill, M.D., without
salary.
That Sobei Ide, M.D., be appointed laboratory assistant
in the Psychopathic Hospital, without salary.
That Ward F. Seeley, A.B., M.D., be appointed Interne
in Obstetrics and Gynaecology, in place of Dr. Leslie L.
DeWitt, at the same salary, $I25.00.
That George Slocum, M.D., be reappointed demonstrator of Ophthalmology, at the same salary, $500.0o.
That Wayne Alexander Cochrane, M.D., be appointed
assistant in Ophthalmology, in place of Dr. Albert Alder,
at the same salary, $300.00.
That William L. Benedict, be reappointed Interne in
Ophthalmology, without salary.
That Claude Thomas Uren, M.D., be appointed instructor in Otollaryngology, in place of Reginald Plummer, M.D.,
at the same salary, $oo0.oo.
That Ferris Nicholas Smith, A.IB., M.D., be appointed
assistant in Otolaryngology, in place of Claude T. Uren,
M.D., at the same salary, $500.o0.
That Alvin Lorie, M.D., be appointed Interne in Otolaryngology, in place of Ferris N. Smith, M.D., at the same
salary, $125.00.
Regent Sawyer presented a communication from the Secretary of the Department of Medicine and Surgery, and on




i8o


JUNE MIEETINGTG, I9


Regent Sawyer's motion, the Board approved the courses
recommended, as follows:
Course I. A one-year course leading to the degree of
Master'of Science in Public Health. Candidates must possess the degrees of B.S. or A.B., and MI.D. The course of
instruction *covers one academic year, beginning with the
opening of the University in the fall, and continuing until
the following June. Work in the Summer School following the granting of the degree of Mi.D. can be credited on
this course. At the close of the course an examination, both
theoretical and practical, will be held, and a diploma of
M.S. in PublicHealth will be given to all who successfully
pass the examinations and 'show fitness for work in public
health. In addition to the taking of the prescribed courses
and the successful passing'of these courses the candidate
shall carry out a piece of original investigation of sufficient
value, and shall present a thesis on the same, and successfully defend this thesis. The moral character o'f applicants
for the degree must be shown to be above question.
All candidates for the above degrees are subject to the
rules and regulations of the University governing regular
students.
The yearly fee is the same as for matriculated students
in the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
SCHEDULE.
IIRST SEMESTER.
Advanced Bacteriology and Parasitology, Io hours weekly
Practical.Hygiene (meat, milk and water), 5 hours weekly
Physical Education,                     5 hours weekly
Sanitary Engineering (plumbing, draining), 2 hours weekly
Building, Sanitation,                   I hour weekly
Hydraulic Work (water supplies),        2 hours weekly
Autopsy Technique,                      2 hours weekly
Special Pathology of Infectious Diseases, 5 hours weekly
Sociail and Vital Statistics,           I hour weekly
Sanitary Legislation,                   2 hours weekly
SECOND SEIMEISTER.
Practical Hygiene (foods, clothing, personal 'hygiene, prophylaxis, quarantine,
*isolation, disinfection, disposal of dead,
etc.),                               io hours weekly
Physical Education (theory and application of physical training, practical anthropometry),                         5 hours weekly




f - N     -1
(, 27, T AfEET/Al"G.1911


Sanitary  in-gincering (garlbage tand(1  aste
dlisposal ),                            L() lO()trs  weklvly
Sewage.
Pathology o(f) Occ1)upationlal Diseases,   I lour \eekly
Serunl and Vaccine Therapy,, hours xweckly
The followiiln departments are represented in1 the above
schedule':  l-edical: HI giene, Bacteriolo(gy andl P:atholcgy;
1;ng -ineering:  yldrauilics and Sanitary IEligineerilg; Architecture: Law: Sanitary Legislation'; Literary: Vital Statistics and 'lhysical Training.
Coulrse 1I. Course leading to the (legree of )Doctor of
L'Public I lealth. Candidates mltust lpossess the d(legre of A.1.
and }.S. ill ladditioni to that ()f tI. )., atld must p1trsuie a
course of tw(o years after the decgre of M.1). lias bleei received.  The first year's course is identical w-ith that i)rescriledl for the degree otf liaster of Science ill Puiblic
I lealth. The second vear's work must be spent int researchl
'work iii one or mlrt e of these subljects, with the  rcesetitatiO)n of a tlhesis coltainiitig original work of sutfficiett lmerit,
whiclh lust bIe I)ass(e utl)(pon byl anii defended before all thle
memlilers of   e he faculty concerlled il the giving,of the
co)urses. 'The inall examinationl which w\ill coverr thle ilrancll
or b)ranchs o f the first vear's worlk can l)e hleld at tlhe end of
the irst year. Fees the samei for each year as for Cotirs(
1. \ Iportion of the prescribed( work -may be takc   e lsiewhere, but the rig-lt to (1o this must be left with the factilty
givingl these c(ourses.
liegent l tulklev Iresented( tle following c(mmllllunicati(ol
trom  the Librarian. and on Regent ltiulkley s lmotion       [-rofessor 1 —ludson's gift was acceptet( and the tllanks of the
t:oard were voted to himi
TrI the l   lot(orable Boarde of Regents:
Yotr attentiol is is ited to the follk:)wiiig. for conlidcraitiolI if lpossible at yotur lmecting called foi r Juntie  7, 19:
I tiake great pleasure in setnding this official notitication
of a.tn exceptiolially valuable gift recently made to the Uniiversitv I irary. Professor Richard I-itdson (  tle eve oti
his becomling Emleritus Professor of History lias l)reselnted
to the CUniversity the major portion of his private library.
Tihe gift consists of about  200o volumes land severtal hunlred pamlphlets and periodical publicatiotns. The co llectiot
is particuliarly strong ill books on the Far East, atndl  odern
IEuropean htistory. There is alsb a good rep)resenltatibo  of
books on governTmental questions of the day, and so)e llis



182


JUNE MEETING, 19l1


cellaneous literature. The books will be marked by a special book-plate and classed with the cognate literature of the
subjects treated.
The hearty thanks of all interested in the growth of the
Library and the increase of our resources are due Professor Hudson for his generosity in placing his books where
they will be most useful. Apart from their usefulness they,will serve to remind his colleagues, his students and their
successors of the life-time service which Professor lHudson
has rendered the University.
June 27, 19II.
(Signed) THEODORIE W. KOCH.
The President gave notice of the following appointments
of Senate members of the Committee on Graduate Work:
(See pages 95 and o09.)
Dean Vaughan, Dean Reed, Professor Scott, Professor
Wenley and Professor Ziwet.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the placing of insurance on the University's boiler plants
with the 'Travelers' Indemnity Company, the lowest bidder.
Regent Clements recommended certain changes and repairs in the Law Library, involving the use of certain stacks
no longer used in the General Library and the transferring
of the Practice Court Room to other quarters, and recommended also certain changes desired in the office of Dean
Bates. On Regent Celments's motion, the Board authorized
these repairs at an estimated expense of $300 for the library
and $225 for the changes in the office.
Regent Clements reported that bids had been received
for the University's fuel supply for I911-I912 from eight
different concerns and that the Committee recommended
the acceptance of the bid of the Maynard Coal Co. and the
Big Vein Coal Co. jointly at the base price of $2.78 per ton
f. o. b. Ann Arbor for Pocahontas run of mine coal subject
to a specified scale increase or decrease on the basis of analysis, as the most advantageous bid received. Accordingly
the Board authorized a contract with the Maynard Coal Co.
and the Big Vein Coal Co. jointly for approximately I5,000
tons, in accordance with the specifications and bid.
The President presented a communication from    Professor Bradley M. Thompson relative to the date at which
his retiring allowance from the Carnegie Foundation should




JUNE MEETING, 91 1 -

I83


become effective. After discussion the matter was passed
without action.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, leave of absence without salary was voted to Assistant Professor H. H. Higbie
in order that he might tentatively accept a position in the
Wentworth Institute of Boston.
On motion of Regent Beal, one year's leave of absence
without salary was granted to Mr.' K. W. Zimmerschied,
Instructor in Chemical Engineering, in order that he might
accept a position as metallurgist for a large automobile manufactory.
On motion of Regent IHubbard, Professor Clarence T.
Johnston was formally appointed as Director of the Bogardus Engineering Camp, and the Committee on the Department of Engineering was authorized within their discretion
to provide for the safety of University property at the
Camp.
Regent Beal presented a request from the Professor of
Latin for an appropriation of $400 to provide an assistant
in Classical Archaeology for the year I9II-I9I2. On motion this request was denied.
On motion of Regent Beal, Henry Foster Adams, Ph.
D., was appointed Instructor in Psychology at the salary
of $Iooo, as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, Harry Wolven Crane was
appointed as George S. Morris Memorial Fellow in Philosophy for the academic year I9II-1912.
A communication was received from Professor Kelsey
requesting that the total salary of 'Mr. F. F. Potter, as Instructor in Latin for the present second semester, should
be $600 instead of $450. On motion of Regent Beal, this
request was laid on the table.
Regent Bulkley presented a communication from the
Curator of the Museum stating that he was in receipt of a
check for $350 from Mr. Bryant Walker. This check covered the $250, already recorded (see page 77), as given by
Mr. Walker for an expedition to the fossil beds of Texas
and New Mexico and $50 for a summer scholarship at
Woods Hole, Massachusetts, and $50 for certain museum
work in connection with a previous expedition to Cherry
Island in Saginaw Bay. The thanks of the Board were voted




18.4


8JU4E (.IE1 J7'IjG;, 19 [-.


to Mr. 'Walker for this additional proof of his generosity
to the University.
On motion of Regent Leland, Junior Professor I-enry
A. Sanders was promoted to a Professorship in the Department <f Latin at the salary of $2500 a year, the promotion
to take effect with the University year 1911-1:912.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Bert E. Quiick was appointed as ~Whittier Pellow beginning April 15, 191Ir, for
the remainder of the University year 1910o-rI91, vice Kenneth Duncan, resigned.
On motion of Regent I eal, the following resolution vwas
a(lopte(:l
Resolved, That the work of the Students' Christial.
Association at the University of Mlichigan is such as to cotimend itself to the favorable consideration of those interested
in the moral and religious welfare of the students.
R1egent Bleal presented notice that Ir. Richard C. Tlollman
did not accept appointment as Instructor in Chemiistry in
the Chemical Laboratory for the year 191 1-191 2 as he iha 
accepted a position as Assistant IProfessor at the Univerit:v
of Cincinnati.
On motion of Regent Bi:eal, cJames lllmer IIarris, \1.S.,
was appointed Instuctor iin General and l-hysical Chemistry
for the year 19l -1912 at the salary of $9oo, in    in d i the
budget, in place of Dr. Tolinan.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, $o100 was aldded to thl(
salary o(f Jolin I onin, instrument man in the lepartment of
surveying, with the  ndilerstanding' that as part of his duties
lih should be in attendance at tie sumnmer camp  hlloll ai;
liis own expense.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, leave of alsence of Assistant Professor W. T. Fishleigh without salary was con(itinued for the year  911-1 912.
On motion of Regent I-ilubbard, Assistant Professor JI
1E. Btursley wsas made Juinior Professobr of Mechanical Lnigineering to take effect with tle University year 19 11-1912.
-Professor lutrsley's salary for 1911i-1912 is, however, to
tle paid by Professor Allen, absent on leave, P'rofessor  ur slev acting as his substitute.
Regeit Hiubbard presented a request fromn Dean C oiley
that as Conrad Lucas, mechanic in thle Electrical Engineer



JUN;E I EE TIN G., 9 - 


18 S


ing Laboratory, was to be absent in order to take part in the
national contest of state militia marksmen between 1the (dates
of June 25 and July Ju     d ly i a1i 5 and September i:. the
matter of providing a substitute together with the amnount
of such substitute's compensation should be referredl to tie
Executve Committee, with power.      The matter was so referred with the understanding that the compensation (: o   a
substitute should not exceed that provided for Mr. iiLcas,
who would be without salary (luring his absence.
On motion of Regent Hlubbard, Alfred Diell Schoch
was appointed as Instructor in French and Spanishl in the
Department of Engineering for the University year t9 1:1
1912 at the salary of $rooo, as provided in the budIgt, in
place of Assistant Professor Bird, absent on leave.
Regent lHubbard presented the following resigllnations,
which were accepted with regret:
Baguio, \!ayl 1r,:i911.
To the Ilonorable -Board of Regents:
Gewnlemenc:-I have the honor to tender mi resignatio:;l
effective at the end of the current college year, from tmy
position as Junior Professor of Civil Engineering in thle
University of Michigan.
In thus separating from the Faculty of the University,
after a period of service dating from October, 1892, I desire
to express my appreciation of the many courtesies andl fayors whiclh have been extended to Im 1]y -our  onlorallel
Board.
Respectfully,
C. G. W.RIl.-NTlYMORI.,
Chief Irrigation Engineer. 
Baguio, AMay ni, I1 T.
The Honorable, T he Board of Regents,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, MAichigan.
Gentlemeln: In Jiun1e, 1909, I was given a leave of al)sence of one year to engage in outside engineering work.
This leave was extended a year ago so as to allow me toI,
continue in practical work. Since lmy present positionI as
designing engineer for the Irrigation Division of the
Bureau of Public \orks of the Phliiippine Government is




1[ 86;;  I
J (";, I \1 7T,'VEETTXG, IP7.1 -

much more retmunerative than my work at Ani   Arbor
would be, and is being of much practical benefit to me, I
am constrained to remain here instead of returning to Anni
Arbor next October; and therefore tender you myr resigntation as Instructor in Civil Engineerilng.
Respectfully,
GtO. G. STi()Omi.
Regent H-Iubbard transmitted a communication showing
that the prize of $ioo offered by the Nelson Valve Co. of
Philadelphia, for competitive design of a bronze valve wheel
was won I)y Mr. J. 1-H. Walker, a student in the Department
of Engineeri ng. Forty-one designs were sul)mitted )y all
contestants.  'his communication was received for Iiling.
On motion of Regent Beal, Junior Professor fames \W.
(lover was p1romoted to a I'rofessorship to take effect witl
the University year i91r —1912, with salary at $2500.
Oin motion of Regent Leland, $ ooo was added to the
budget for the purpose of securing lectures by distinguished
scholars, expenditures from this fund to be at the discretion
of the Presdent, upon recommendation of a committee of
three members of the Faculty. This sum is to be availal)le
for lectures in any department of learning.
On motion of IRegent Leland, the BPoard adopted the following resolution:
Resolve!d, That the Auditor General be requested to set
aside from the General Building 1Fund into the -'Fund for.jquipmenlt of the Observatory the sum of $184.79.
Regent Sawyer presented the following communication
from the Secretary, and on motion the Board voted that free
analyses should be so made within the dliscretion o:f D)r.
NTaughan and the Secretary:To the lonorablle B:oard of Regents:
Your attention is invited to the following', for consideration if possible at your meeting called for June 27, 1911:
There has been a ruling of the Regents to the effect
that the only l1Ann Arbor water subject to free analysis is
so-:called "city water." It is Doctor Vaughan's view, in
vwhict I Iheartily agree xvith him, that any Ann Arbor water
wrhich is at all likely to be used Ib students should -be ccamnl.ied gratis oil request. Several. e(am'ina.iltiOs have ': e



JUNE MVIEETING, 1911


I87


cently been made by Doctor Vaughan for which he thinks
no charge should be made, and this office has refrained from,presenting bills until we could learn whether the Regents
would rescind the old ruling and would allow analyses to
be made gratis within the discretion of Doctor Vaughan
and the Secretary.
June 17, I9Ir.
(Signed) SHIRmTY W.\ SMITH.
On motion of Regent Leland, the sum not to exceed
$I50 was allowed within the discretion of the Secretary
for additions to the compensation of operators at the campus telephone exchange.
On motion of Regent Leland, Professor Ioff, of the
College of Dental Surgery, was made Dean instead of Acting Dean, and his salary as Dean and Professor was fixed
at $3,000 per year, to take effect with the University year
19II-I912, with the understanding that Dr. Ioff should
give up practically all his private practice and give full
time to 'the work of the College of Dental Surgery.
Regent Leland was excused.
Communications from   the Secretary and from   Professor A. T-. Vhite, Dean Mt. E. Cooley and Director E. D.
Campbell relative to analyses desired by the Purchasing
Department of the University and by citizens of the State,
were referred to a committee consisting of Regent Clements
and Regent Beal for consideration and report to the Board.
The Secretary   of the Athletic   Association  having
submitted the names of Messrs. Harold I. Haskins, John
B. Lyman and W. J. Learmonth as student members of the
Board in Control of Athletics for the year beginning June
I, 1911I the recommendation of these students, on motion of
Regent Beal, was approved and the appointments were
confirmed.
Regent Beal presented the resignation of Miss Cora A.
Hardinghaus as Secretary of the Appointment Committee,
which was accepted with regret, to take effect July I.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resoluton was adopted:Resolved, That in case of resignations after July i,
19I1, there shall be no period of vacation allowed after the
period of service actually ceases.




188


JUNE MEETING, r9_I


In adopting this resolution, it was the informal understanding of the Board that in the case of the following
three resignations already received, Treasurer Baker and
Miss Hardinghaus, Secretary of the Appointment Committee, should be paid for June, and Mr. Parsons, Assistant Purchasing Agent, should be paid for July.
Regent Sawyer was excused.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Walter F. Colby, Instructor in Physics, was granted leave of absence for the
University year I91I-I912, without salary, for study abroad.
On motion of Regent Beal, Jesse T. Littleton was appointed Instructor in Physics for the University year I91I1912, at the salary of $900, to fill the vacancy occasioned by
Dr. Colby's absence.
On motion of Regent Beal, the title of Assistant Professor Herbert Richard Cross, appointed in the budget of
191I-I912, was changed to read "Assistant Professor of
Fine Arts and Curator of the Art Collection."
By the same motion, the sum of $500 was appropriated
as a current expense budget of the department of Fine Arts
for I9II-I912 to provide lantern slides, photographs and
other materials.
Regent Grant presented a communication from Dean
Bates stating that Professor Brewster, absent on leave during I91O-1911, would return for work in the fall of I912,
thus relieving the Department from tlie necessity of appointing an additional professor as provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Grant, following the recommendation of Dean Bates, 'Mr. Edgar N. Durfee was appointed as Assistant Professor of Law beginning with the University year I9II-I912 at the salary of $I,800, $I,6oo having
been provided in the budget.
On motion of Regent Grant, the salaries of Assistant
Professors Stoner, Aigler and McLucas, in the Department
of Law, were each raised from $1,600 to $I,800, to take
effect with the University year 191I-I912.
In view of the fact that the Professorship at $2,500,
provided for in the budget, will not be filled, the addition
of $2oQ each for Messrs. Durfee, Stoner, Aigler and McLucas will not involve any increase in the budget total.
Regent Hubbard presented the following communi



JUNE JIMEETING, Ig91


I89


cation from the Department of Engineering, and on motion
the changes in the courses in Architecture were authorized
as requested:To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your attention is linvited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for June 27, I9II.
At a meeting of the Engineering Faculty, held May I7,
I9gI, the following changes in the requirements for students
of architecture were approved.
It was moved and carried that the following changes
in the courses in Architecture be presented to the Board of
Regents for their authorization:
ARCHI'TECTURE I.
Arch. changes.
Add one hour of freehand drawing; add three 'hours of
electives; Substitute Drawing 40 (four hours) and Drawing,a (two hours), for Drawing 4 (four hours) and Drawing 5 (four hours); drop summer course in The History of
Fine Arts (two hours).
ARCHIlTECTURE II.
Drop three hours of freehand drawing; drop four
hours of Architectural design; add English Literature,
three hours; add electives, four hours.
ARCHITEICTURAL ENGINEERING.
Substitute Drawing 4a (four hours) and Drawing 5a
(two hours), for Drawing 4 (four hours) and Drawing
5 (four,hours); drop summer course in 'The History of
Fine Arts (two hours); drop Mathematics 5 (three hours);
drop one hour of Architectural design; add Civil Engineering 4a (one hour); add Surveying 4 (two hours); add one
hour of freehand drawing; add electives, four hours.
The Faculty also recommended that students of Architecture be allowed to offer an additional 'half-unit in Drawing for entrance, as follows:
Engineering Announcement p. 25 (Admission).
Drawing.
Students who intend to study architecture may offer
an additional half unit in drawing.  This dirawing may
consist of work in freehand drawing, design, or mechanical drawing or a combination of two of these.
Freehanld Drawing. The student should show that he




Igo


JUNE     lMl EETING, 9IrI


can represent correctly in outline and in lighlt and shade,
geometric and simple natural or decorative form. Accuracy of proportion and perspective are essential. The pencil,
charcoal or brush may be used.
Mechanical Drawing.  See page 25 Engineering Announcement.
Design.  In this work a student should demonstrate
some knowledge of the principles of design and the ability
to apply them. The exercises should consist of compositions of straight and free curved lines and simple shapes
and their use in the design of simple objects, such as a
book cover, etc. The exercises may be in black and white,
various values, or in color, and may consist in part of objects executed in wood or metal, and the like.
On motion of Regent Grant, the following was adopted:Resolved, That the subject of the employment of the
teaching force of the University be referred to thle Executive Committee with the request that they formulate and
recommend to the Board some more systematic plan for the
selection and retention of the teaching force in the various
departments of the University.
On motion of Regent Beal, leave of absence for the
University year 1911-1912 was granted to Professor Arthur
W. Smith with salary, on condition that by teaching in the
Summer Session of 19II, he completes four years' summer
session teaching without withdrawing his salary.
A  commuication from    Honorable John Barrett, Secretary of the Pan American Committee of the United States,
relative to interchange of students between the universities
of the American continent, by means of scholarships, etc.,
was referred to the President.
After   discussion,  inaugurated   by   Superintendent
Wright, relative to the duplication of work in various educational institutions of this state, the matter was informally
laid over with the understanding that it should be brought
up at the next meeting.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the purchase of one or two teams of horses as might be
found necessary in the judgment of the Buildings and
Grounds Committe-e.




JUNE MJEETING, 'I9"z 


I9r


On motion of Regent Clements, the Board approved
the action of the Buildings and Grounds Committee in approving the erection of a club house on the Athletic Field
without expense to the University.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board requested
that the Homoeopathic College Committee investigate Dean
Hinsdale's request for repairs and upon recommendation of
the Homceopathic Committee to the Buildings and Grounds
Committee, the required repairs shall be made under the
direction of the Buildings nand Grounds Committee.
On motion of Regent Beal, Regent Bulkley was appointed in the place of Ex-Regent Codd as a Regent member of the Trustees of the State Psychopathic Hospital.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board directed
that free sanitary analyses should be extended, within the
discretion of Dean Vaughan and Secretary Smith, they to
be governed by the interests of public health and to avoid
so far as possible interference with commercial analysts.
The President reported a gift to the University of a
portrait of Ex-Regent George Willard by his children, and
on motion of Regent Grant, the thanks of the Regents were
voted to the donors.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote.
On motion the Board adjourned to Io o'clock A. M.,
Thursday, July 20.
SHIRLrY W. SAI'ITI,
Secretary.




192               JUNE MEETING, I9pi
APPENDIX A.
HONORARY DEGREES AS CONFERRED AT
COMMENCEMENT, I9II.
BACHELORS OF ARTS.
AS OF TIHE CLASSES NAMED.
SAMUEL CULVER PARKI, of Salt Lake City, Utah, for
three years a member of the class of I89I in the Department
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, distinguished for his
services as legislator and for his disinterested efforts in
behalf of the public school system of his state.
GFEORGE LEwIs CANFIILD, of Detroit, Michigan, for over
three years a member of the class of I888 in the Department of Literature, IScience, and the Arts, a prominent
member of the Detroit Bar, distinguished particularly for
his learning and work in the field of Admiralty Law.
JOHN ROBINSON WVIBSTErR, of Omaha, Nebraska, for a
time a member of the Class of 1876 in the Department of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, distinguished for his
oconstructive work in connection with the management of
large railway interests, a public-spirited and progressive
citizen, the founder of scholarships in the University of
Nebraska and in 'the University of Michigan for the assistance of poor students.
DOCTORS OI0 PUBLIC HEIALTH.
DR. WILLIAI AUGUSTUS EVANS. The University recognizing the inestimable value of preventive medicine to
the people has recently provided for a course of 'instruction
leading ito the degree of Doctoir of Public Health. It is certainly fitting that the first recipient of this degree should
be Dr. William Augustus Evans, of Chicago, Illinois, a
man who for a number of years has controlled the sanitationf te      tro  is o f;the tropolis of  e Northwest, and w'hose service
iitnl that regard has ibeen conspicuous for iits efficiency.
DR. GUY LINCOLN KIITErR. As the second recipient of
the degree of Doctor of Public Health the University has
chosen Dr. Guy Lincoln Kiefer, of the Class of 1887 in the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts and of the
Class of I9Sg in the Department of Medicine and Surgery,
in recognition of his efficient services as Health Officer of
the City of Detroit.




JUNE MEETING, 1911                     I193
MASTERS OF ARTS.
M.. ALLEN BARTLIT POND, of Chicago, Illinois, a graduate o:f' this Univerlsity in the Class of I88o in the Department
of. Literature, Science, and the Arts, distinguished as an
architect, and for years prominent as a worker for the betterment of the civic conditions in the city of his' residence,
a man not infrequently characterized as " Chicago's most
useful citizen."
MR. IRVING KANI POND, of Chicago, Illinois, a graduate
of this Universiiity in Ithe ClIass of I879 in the Department
of Engineering, distinguished as an architect and now serving his second term as President of the American Institute
of Architects, whose work is marked by great individuality
and originality both in idea and treatment.
MR. EARL D. BABST, of New York City, a graduate of
this University both in the. Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and in the Department of Law, a
man who has achieved marked success in the practice of his
profession, whose untiring labor and resourcefulness iin
every movement that has in view the advancement of the
interests of his Alma Mater, are recognized and appreciated
by all friends of the University.
MASTERES OF ENGINEERING.
MR. ALEX Dow, of Detroit,:Michigan, a born engineer,
trained in the severe 'school of experience, who 'has risen
by his own efforts to a commanding position in:his profession, a man combining marked business ability with high
professional attainments, the University honors herself in
adopting him as one of her sons.
MR. JOSEPH RIPLEY, Of Albany, New York, a graduate
of this University in Civil Engineering in the Class of I876,
a man whose long.experience in connection with government canals has made him. a master workman in waterway engineering. His life has been spent in the service of
the public and he has never been found lacking either in
judgment or courage.
MR. LOUIS CLARENCE HILL, a graduate of the University
of Michigan in the Class of I886 and in Electrical Engineering in the Class of 1890, an engineer of great versatility who
has rendered distinguished service in connection with government work in the West and whose latest achievement is
the construction of the great Roosevelt dam.




194


JUNE MEETING, I:'-:r


DOCTOR 01 SCIENCE.
MR. JOSEPHI FRANIK GEISLR, of New York City, who
received from  the University of Michigan the degree of
Pharmaceutical Chemist in I88o, a man distinguished for
his original work in connection with food and drug analysis
and for his contributions to the literature of the subject.
DOCTORS OF LAWS.
MIt. HE-NRY GOSLEE PROUT, of New York City, a graduate of the Universiity of Miichigan in Civil Engineering in
the Class of 187I, at one time Major of Engineers and
Colonel of Staff in the Egyptian Army, Governor of the
Equatorial Provinces from  1874 to I878, for years chief
editor of the Railroad Gazette and more recently the director of extensive business interests, a man of courage and
Of determination, yet a man who is always actuated by the
highest 'humanitarian motives.
HONORABIE Ruvus HILDRETH TH-AYER, of the Cklass of
187o, University of Michigain, for many. years a reside.nt of
'thie National Capital wlhere he atitained disgtin-ction as,a
practitioner of the law and rendered valuable public service
in movements 'for civic advan'ceimeinit.  Appointed by the
President to *the responlsiblle and ddifficult post of Judge of
'the Uniited States Court for 'Chi;na., he has by ihis ability,
his learn;ing, his untiring!industry and 4his.eminent judicial
qualities given to ithe 'tribunal over.'whicdh hle presides, a
sstanding of which Americans may well be proud. Anly uncertainty a!s to 'wnhether tthe Presidelnt could find and as'sign,to China a man who could instiltute and 'mainltain there the
highest judicial standards lhas 'been 'removed.
PRESIDIENT HARRY PRATT JUDSON, of the University of
Ohicago, a man disstinguitshed not only for his qua;litie!s as,teacher 'and 'productive;sOhola!r, but also for his force and
effectivern'ess as an adminisistrator. It is a pleasure,to the
authoriities of;the University of Michigafn to seize upon this
opportunity as ithe favorable one for enrolling President
Judson in our list of alumni.
HIS EXCILLENCY, GOVERNOR 'CHASE, SALMON OSBORN, in
a large 'way a man of affairs, a man of action and purpose,
a man of power, a man of ideas and ideals, a journalist, a
traveller, an author, a man -who as Regent of this University
rendered to the Institution distinguished service, now the
vigilant 'and patriotic dhief magistrate of this Commonwealth.




JULY MEETING
UNIVERSITY OIr MICHIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, July 20, 1911. 
The Board met in the Regents' room at 10 A. M.
President Hutchins informed the Board that Secretary Smith had been called to Oklahoma on account of
the severe sickness of his brother and would be unable to
attend the meeting; that in his absence he had asked
Miss Davis (the President's stenographer) to keep the
minutes, if it met the approval of the Board that she
should do so.
On motion of Regent Leland, Miss Davis was
appointed to act as Secretary of the meeting.
Present, Regent Grant, Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal,
Regent Leland, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hanchett, and Regent Hubbard. Absent, Superintendent of Public Instruction Wright.
On motion of Regent Grant, the minutes of June 27
were approved as submitted to the members in proof and
ordered to be printed.
It was informally agreed that the matter of extension
work with the United Steam Engineers of Detroit and
the matter of lectures by members of the Architectural
department under the auspices of the Architectural
Society of Detroit should be referred to the Executive
Committee to be considered in connection with their plan
for University extension work.
The question of providing further accommodation for
household help at the University Hospital was considered and on motion of Regent Sawyer the Superintendent of the University Hospital was authorized to provide
for such help temporarily by securing for them rooms
outside the hospital whenever necessary.
On motion of Regent Clements, it was voted that the




I96


JULY M/EETING, n19I.


matter of exchange of lands with the Michigan Union be
laid upon the table until such time as the Regents can
furnish a substitute for the accommodations in Wiest
Hall.
The President reported for the Executive Committee
that a plan for University extension work had not been
perfected, and asked that this matter be continued in the
hands of, the Committee.
Regent Bulkley, in reporting upon the matter of the
will of Octavia W. Bates, deceased, said that the petition
for the removal of the executor had been denied; that
there was another proceeding pending in the contest oi
the will, which would come up prol)ably in the fall, but
that there had not as yet been any reason for retaining
special counsel.
The Executive Committee of the Board having- reported upon the question of the desirability of the Board
of Regents exercising some control over the soliciting
by University organizations of funds from the alumni,
the following resolution was, on motion of Regent Grant,
adopted:Resolved, That no University organization of a general
nature shall hlereafter solicit funds for any purpose from the
alumni of the University without first having obtained the
approval of this Board, and that as a basis for such approval
each application must be accompanied by a full showing as
to the plan of campaign proposed and as to its purposes.
The President reported adversely on the matter of
establishing a free scholarship for Latin American
students.
Regent Beal asked for further time in regard to the
making of a long term lease of the Woodward Ave. lot,
in Detroit, belonging to the University.
Regent Clements reported that the counsel of the
University had reported favorably upon the tax history
of the property known as the Camp land back of the
Psychopathic Ward, and on his motion, the Secretary
and President were authorized to purchase this property
at a price of $225.




JULY AI/EETING, 1911.


I97


Regent Hubbard reported as follows for the Committee on the Department of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, upon the Biological Station:Your Committee begs leave to make a brief, preliminary report. Regent Real and I recently visited the camp,
spending a day and a half there. We went ovrer the ground
and discussed matters with the instructors in charge.
The matter of a physician has been taken care of for the
present. Any further recommnlendation should be m1ade by
us in a final report which should come after the ground has
been thoroughly gone over by the gentlemlen in charge of
the Engineering Camp and the Biological Camp.
There is an important question as to the advisability of
changing the location of the camp, but this cannot be determined upon at,the present time. It mlay be mnade a part of
our permantent r-epor:t.
We found a forty-acre piece of land on Burt Lake which,
in our opinion, should be purchased by th:e University. It
can be had, I think, for $500. It contains a large amount of
virgin forest andc would be valuable as an investment if not
for purpos;es of ins'tructoin.
The water supply and the matter of a tank should await
final determination as to the permanent site of the camp.
The Biological Camp has a motor boat which was provided by voluntary contributions last year and which serves
a very good purpose. Whether or not a larger boat must
be provided, must depend upon thle final location -of the camp.
Thle recommendation of Assistant Professor MTierrick as
to utilizing the logs at the camp is a good one and should be
carried out.
Thle matters of storehouse and care-taker should await
final action as to the site of thle camp.
With this short, preliminary report, we reqluest further
time until next fall, when we hope tot have full reports from
the professor in charge and' whlen we can probably make
recommnendations that will appeal to the Board.
On motionl of Regent Clements, the Committee on
the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts was
authorized to secure an option on the forty-acre piece of
land on Burt Lake, referred to above in Regent Hubbard's report, and to report to the Board at some future
meeting.




198


JULY MEETING, I9II.


On motion of Regent Leland, the recommendation of
the Executive Committee that Ernest Allmendinger be
engaged at $2.25 per day, as a supply in place of Conrad
Lucas from July 15 to September 1, was accepted and
adopted.
The Board at its last meeting having referred to the
Executive Committee the consideration of the subject
of the employment and continuance in service of members of the teaching force in the different departments
of the University, and having requested that it formulate
and report a plan whereby the Board may be better
informed as to the character of the work of the members
of said force, and said Executive Committee having
reported upon the subject, the following was, on motion
of Regent Grant, adopted:Resolved, I. That not later than February I of each
year 'each Department Committee of the Board of Regents,
with the President of the University and the Dean of the
Department concerned, shall examine carefully into the work
of the members of the teaching force of its Department with
'a view of ascertaining what each member of said force is.accomplishing in the field of his specialty and as to the
effectiveness of each as an instructor.
2. That upon the completion of such examination, and
not later than March I, a report of results shall be made by
the Departmenit Committee to the full Board, such report
being solely for the guidance and information of the Board
and not for publication.
3. Thlat the several reports so, made shall be taken into
consideration by the Board and the Budget Committee in
passing upon questions, connected with the promotion or
iretention, of members of the teaching force in the different
Departments of the University.
After some discussion of the subject, on motion of
Regent Bulkley, the matter of duplication of work in
various educational institutions of the State was stricken
from the order of business.
Regent Leland presented the annual report of
Ex-Treasurer Baker for the year 1911-1912, and on his
motion, the report was accepted and ordered printed in
the minutes.




JULY MEETING, 19II.


I99


On motion of Regent Leland, the expense bill of
Regent Grant for $138.94 was approved.
Regent Clements spoke at some length concerning
the importance of better fire protection.
On motion of Regent'Grant, the Buildings and
Grounds Committee was instructed to procureplans and
estimates of the cost for a system of fire protection for
the University and to report at the September meeting
of the Board.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Buildings and
Grounds Committee was authorized to make the necessary changes and improvements in, the toilet rooms of
the Homceopathic Hospital, at a cost not to exceed
$4,800., to be paid out of the General Fund.
Regent Sawyer reported upon the necessity of a
bakery and elevator at the University Hospital, and on
his motion, the following resolution was passed:Resolved, That the Auditor General be requested to set
aside from the Building Fund $4,300. for the construction of
a bake oven and elevator at the University Hospital.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Buildings and
Grounds Committee was instructed to proceed with plans
and the construction of the bakery as reported.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Buildings and
Grounds Committee was authorized to expend not to
exceed $2,000. in the construction and equipment of new
toilet rooms in the General Library.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal was
authorized to negotiate with the owners of the Lowry
property as to the price at which the property can be
purchased and to ascertain what the probable income
from the property would be.
On motion the Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled, Regent Hanchett, Regent
Grant, Regent Bulkley, Regent Hubbard, Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal, and Regent Leland being present.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board authorized




200


JULY MEETING, 1911.


the release of the bond of Mr. George S. Baker, former
Treasurer of the University, as of July          1, 1911, his
accounts having     been reported by the Auditor to be
correct.
On motion of Regent Leland, Treasurer Robert A.
Campbell's bond     in the Massachusetts       Bonding    and
Insurance Co., for the sum of $100,000., was accepted.
The President presented the resignation of Professor
Gardner S. A/illiams as follows:ANN ARBOR, July 19, I9 1.
To the President:Sir: 'T-he undersignled begs leave, hereby, to tender his
resignation as Professor of Civil, Hydraulic, and Sanitary
Engineering, to which chair he was appointed by action of
the Honorable Board of Regents, June 2I, I904, said resignation to take effect September 27, next; which is, Sir,
Very respectfully submitted,
GARDNER S. WII,LIAMS.
HARRY B. HUTCHINS, LL.D., President,
University of Michigan.
The President presented the following communicatoin from Dean M. I. Cooley:'To the Hbnorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for July 20, 911I.
Under date of July I9, I9I1, Professor Gardner S. Williams tenders his resignation.as Professor of Civil, Hydraulic
and Sanitary Eng'ineering, to take effect September 27 next.
I understand this action by Professor Williams at this
time is primarily due to his dissatisfaction with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Engineering
relative to taking certain courses in applied mechanics from
civil engineering and placing them in charge of a separate
department of engineering mechanics (the subject of a separate communication,).
In accepting Professor Williams's resignation, the University will suffer a distinct loss. He is a most loyal alumnus, and the welfare and success of the department over
which he has presided with so much efficiency and zeal for
the past seven years lies, very close to his heart. He has




JULY MEETING, 1911.


201


achieved eminence in his profession, and commands the highest respect of his many friends and associates in the profession, and of his co-workers and students in the University.
It is wmith the keenest regret that I recommend the acceptance of Professor Williams's resignation; and I do so
only because I realize that he is firmly of the opinion that
the proposed changes would be detrimental to the best interests of the civil engineering students, and that he would not
be willing or content to work under them.
M. E. CoolEY,
July I9, 1911.                           Dean.
Regent Clements took his seat.
Dean Cooley appeared before the Board and explained
at some length proposed changes in certain courses in
the Department of Engineering, which are embodied in
the following communication to the Board:To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your attention is invited *to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for July 20, I9II.
I. The Faculty of the Department of Engineering on
July II, 1911, voted to. recommend to the Regents that a
Chair of Engineering TMechanics be created in the Department of Engineering, to have charge of applied mechanics
as the same shall be prescribed and directed to be taught
by the faculty.
This step has beene under consideration for nlearly two
years, and during the second semester of I9IO was actively
discussed by the Standing Com1mittee of the Department. It
had been intended to take up the subject again next fall, but
circumstances have arisen, as will appear later, making it
desirable to decide the matter at this time. In the early
days the subjects of applied mechanics were naturally taught
by the professor of civil engineering, as that was the only
engineering course in the University; but with the advent
of other branches of engineering there, arose the necessity
of modifying the instruction so as better to meet the needs
of the new engineering courses.
At the present time the Department of Engineering
embraces courses of instruction leading to thirty-three different degrees, these being embraced under the following
heads, arranged in chronological order:




202


JULY    MEETING, 191r.
I. Civil Engineering
2. Mechanical Engineering
3. Electrical Engineering
4. Chemical Engineering
5. Marine Engineering
6. Naval Architecture
7. Architecture
8. Architectural Engineering
9. Geological Engineering
Io. Cons!ervation Engineering
While the instruction in applied mechanics, by the staff
in civil engineering has been of a very high order and has
been given with most conmmendable ideals in mind, there has
grown up the belief, now general in the Department, that it
is too much to expect of aa. group of men, all specialists in
one branch of engineering, to, preselit the several subjects, in
applied mechanics in a manner best suited to the varied
needs of the Department, made up, as it is, of a large numbher of branches in engineering.
Applied mechanics is' fundamental to all branches of
*engineering, but some branchesi require a more extended
treatment of portions of the subject than others. For example, civil engineers require more of statics, and: mechanical
engineers more of dynamics, while chemical engineers.and
architects have no need to pursue these subjects beyond the
elementary or first presentation of them. It is, therefore,
proposed to embrace in engineering mechanics the courses
required by all students alike, leaving each department to
supplement the general courses' along a d'esired line; or, if
preferred by any department, there will be offered under
engineering mechanics, additional courses to meet the special
needs of that department.
In this way two important. objects will be accomplished:-First, the keeping together of:all the students of
the different branches for a longer period, and in consequence, a greater homogeniety in the Department; that is to
say, a better understanding and appreciation of the work
being done by others. There is unques'tioned advantage in
the civil engineer, the mechanical engineer, and the electrical
engineer being able to understand the view-point of 'the
architect, for instance, and there should be mutual sympathy
and respect for each other's work if the best results are to
be attained in the world's lwork. Second, the student pur



JULY MlJEETING, 1911.


203


suing a branch of engineering which makes but limited use
of applied mechanics is niot burdened with instruction of no
apparent use to him,;and in consequence has more time for
the coursies in, which he is particularly interested.
Thlere is still a third object which to me seems very
important, nameely, the opportunity which will be afforded,the civil engineering department.to, introduce, or to, make
m-ore important, new lines of work, such as sanitary, municipal, and railway engineering, waterways    and highways.
While courses, of instruction are offered along somle olf these
lines, they have not, in1 my opinion, been given the prominence they deslerve in a modern scho.ol of engineering.
T'he most, prominent feature of the civil engineering
course, as taught in thisl University today, is structural engineering. The success of our graduates in this line of work
is a maftter to be proiud of, anc Inothing should be done to
lower its standard, as is feared by some may be.the result
in case the proposed separation,of applied mechanics from
civil engin;eering be brotught:about.  This fear I consider
groundless, however, as practically the sam e men will teach
the subjects as inow; that is, the corps of teachers, in engineering mechanics will comprise the men in civil engineering who are now teaching applied mechanics, together with.
a portion o.f the teachinig staff inll miathematics, particularly
those wlho have been teaching theoretical mechanics,, which
is to be replaced by engineering mecharnics.
It is anticipated that by the interminglinlg of the work
of those engaged in teaching pure mathematics and engineering mechanics, both the teacher and the student will
profit, in that the Itwo subjects' will be brought 'into, closer
harmony, andt there will be a better understanding of principles anld of the applications of pure mathematics to engineering problems.
The one most impoirtant thing to guard against is the.tendency of the different departments, of engineering to
grow apart or separate. It should be our constant effort in
the future to cement or weld 'together the d:ifferent interests so that our output of engineering and' architectural
graduates will be, first of all, engineers and architects having enough interests in common to bring      about mutual
acquaintance and with it some knowledge of the problems
of particular interest to each in' his own line of work. This,
it is believed, will be one of the conspicuous results follolwing
the creation of the chair in engineering mechanics, which




204


JULY MEETING, I9II.


the faculty of thle Diepartment of En,gineering has recommended.
Should this recommendation meet with your approval,
then it is further recommended:
2. That the necessary rearrangemlnent of studies be
authorized, this work to be done by a committee of *the
faculty of the Department of Engineering, subject to the
approval of the President.
Sufficient work has already been done by a committee
appointed' by the Dean, to; demonstrate that it will be perfectly feasible to begin w:ork under the niew plan with, the
opening of college in October next.
3. That the proposed changes go into effect with
the beginning of the college year I9II-I912.
4. That the necessary rearrangemnent of the teaching staff be authorized, this work to be done by a committee to be appointed by the Dean of the Depaantment
of Enginleering, such changes! as are reconmmended! to be
subject to the approval of the President.
As already explained, it is proposed mlerely to assign
certain of the teachers in. civil engineering and mathematics
ito give a part olr the whole of their tiple to the wiork of the
new department of Engineering M-lechanics, without change
of title for tthe present and without changei of salary. When
so engaged these teachers will be under the direction of the
head of the departmen:t o'f engineering' mechanics.
5. That the Physical Testing Labor;atory be under
the direction of the chair in engineering mechanics, and
that free access toi and use of the Hydraulic Laboratory
be also granted to this department.
These laboratories are prinmarily for research and demonstration, work in connection  withl subjects in applied
mechanics, and this action is recommelnded to avoid any
possible mistunderstanding in the future.
6. While the Standing Committee has not formally
considered any candidates for the new   chair, I am
info.rmed, from conversation with the members of the
committee, that Professor Charles Joseph Tilden, Junior
Professor olf Civil Engineering, would be most acceptable for this position. It is, therefore, recommended
that he be appointed Professor of Engineering Mechanics at a salary of $2,500. per annum.




JULY MEETING, I91r.


205


Professor Tilden has been asked by the Bureau of
Standards, Washington, D. C., if he would accept a position on the staff of that Bureau at $3,000. per year. In
answer to my inquiry he has said he would remain on our
staff were he offered a professorship. Professor Tilden
and his work in the Departmlent are too well known to
require more from me than a staterment that he is held in the
highest,esteem by his colleagues and students, and is eminently qualifiec for the promotion recommnended.
7. It is further recoommenided that Professor Albert
Emerson Greene be promoted to Professor of Civil
Enlgineering at $2,500. per annum.
Professor Greene is senior to Professor Tilden, and is
regarded by his colleagues as probably the best equipped
man in the Department in. his specialty of structural engineering. In connection with his duties as a teacher he has
at different timnes revised the text-books of his father, the
late Professor Charles E. Greenle, which have for maany
years been standard text-books in structural mechanics and
strength and resistance of materials.
Thle resignation of Mr. John H. Griffith, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering (the subject of a separate communication to, the Regents) makes available $I,8oo. It is
proposed to employ an instructor in Mr. Griffith's place at
a salary of $I,200. This would leave $6oo., which would
enable the.proposed promotion of both Professors Greene
and Tilden without adding to the budget for next year.
Both thlese gentltemen, under the rule, were due for promotion 'to $2,200. last year, and would have been recommended then except for the financial condition of the University. The University, therefore, saved last year $400. on
'these -two men; during the next two years there will be
saved at least $I,200. owing 'to the resignation of Mr. Griffith, making a total saving in the three years during which
Professors Greene and Tilden were due to receive $2,200. of
$I,6oo.
There would now be added for the next two years (by
making them full professors at $2,500.) $60o. each or a total
of $1,200., leaving a balance of $400. in favor of the University.
It should be explained further that these promotions
were not recommnlended in the budget for 19II-I9I2, as at
that time the situation as concerns Professor Tilden had not!arisen. Thle promotions were, however,.contemplated for




20o6


JULY MEETING, 1911.


the next budget, as it was expected to take up the matter of
a separate department of applied mechanicsi after the opening of college next October. There is not the slightest
doubt that the result of the discussion at that time would
be precisely what it is now, and -as set forth in this communication.            Very respectfully,
M. E. CooLiY,
Dean.
July  12, I9II.
On motion of Regent Grant, the resignation of Professor Gardner S. Williams was accepted with regret.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the chair of Engineering Mechanics was instituted in the Department of
Engineering.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the necessary rearrangement of studies, caused by the separation of Applied
Mechanics from Civil Engineering and placing it in a
separate department of Engineering    Mechanics, was
approved.
By the same motion, it was agreed that the proposed
changes go into effect with the beginning of the college
year 1911-1912 and that the necessary rearrangement of
the teaching staff be authorized.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, it was voted that the
Physical Testing Laboratory be under the direction of
the chair of Engineering Mechanics, and that free access
to and use of the Hydraulic Laboratory be also granted
to this department.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Junior Professor
Charles Joseph Tilden was made Professor of Engineering Mechanics at a salary of $2,500. per annum.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Professor Albert Emerson Greene was made Professor of Civil Engineering
at a salary of $2,500. per annum.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, Regent Bulkley was
appointed to sign the University vouchers for the next
three months, July, August, and September.
After a statement from Regent Bulkley in regard to
the property that the University needs for auditorium




JULY MEBETING, I9I.


207


purposes it was, on motion of Regent Clements, voted
that the matter as to condemnation or purchase of the
York and Monroe properties be referred, with power, to
Regent Bulkley and Regent Beal.
Reent vLeland presented the bond of Treasurer Campbell dated back to July 1, filed it with the President, and
suggested that the form of this bond be referred to the
Counsel of the Board for approval.
Regent Leland presented      a letter from    Professor
Cooley as follows:ANN ARBOR, July II, 19II.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH, Secretary,
University of Michigan.
Dear Mr. Smith:-When you sent me the copies of the
budget of the Department of Engineering, you 'asked me to
let you know if I found anything that needed correction.
Professor Williams has called my a;ttention to one item
of his budget (Engineering sheet No. 9) which needs correction, namely, M:r. A. J. Decker, who is put down at
$1,300., as you will see in the footnote, was to receive $I,400.
in case Professor Wrentmore resigned. Professor Wrentmore's resignation and also that of Mr. Strolebe have come
in since the budget was passed.  I wish, therefore, you
would bring the matter olf Mr. Decker's salary to the attention of the Regents and have it changed from $I,300. to
$1,40o.
Mr. Decker was graduated in Civil Engineering in 19o5,
and the $I,4oo. would fit in, under the rule, with his, experience since graduation, both practical and teaching. Moreover, he is an excellent teacher.
Very respectfully,
M. E. CooLuY,
Dean.
On motion of Regent Leland, Mr. A. J. Decker's
salary was increased to $1,400., as requested, to take
effect at the beginning of the next University year.
The President presented the resignation of Assistant
Professor J. H. Griffith, in order that he might accept




208


JULY MEETING, 1911.


appointment as Engineer-Physicist in the U. S. Bureau
of Standards.   On motion of Regent Hubbard, Professor
Griffith's resignation was accepted with regret.
The President presented a letter from Superintendent
of Buildings and Grounds Marks, addressed to Secretary
Smith, relative to an increase in wages in the steamfitting
and plumbing     department, and, on motion of Regent
Clements, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the repair budget be increased by the
amnount of $546. to allow for an increase in the wages of the
plumbers and s;teamfitters.
Regent Sawyer presented to the Board the following
communication from Dr. Reuben Peterson, of the Depart —
ment of Medicine and Surgery:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consider-.ation if possible at your meeting called for July 20, I9II.
The President has received the following communication from Dr. Peterson, which he submits to the Board:ANN ARBOR, July IS, 1911.
President H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan.
Dear 1Mr. Hutchins:-In compliance with the request of
the Executive Committee I herewith submit a report of the
money expenlded for thie Transactions of the Clinical Society
of th!e University of Michigan, and submit estimates for
volumes two and three of these Transactions.
Volume I of Transactions for year Ig99-Io; Year Ending
October, IgIoPrinting 9 issues, each 750 copies...$151.0o
Binding 200 volumes Transactions.. 44.o0
Postage..........................82
$I95.82
Special Fund for Transactions..... 250.00
$ 54.18




JULY MEETING, I9rI.


209


The above figures do not accurately represent the cost
and,expense' of issuing transactions and reprints, for the
following reasons:
I. Through somle error, no separate:account was kept,of the postage for issuing reprints, and it was charged to
general University account.
2. Also, through an error, the sum of $6.50 for printing was charged to Bates Fund account.
Therefore, in reality, if these items had been taken
care of out of the special fund there would have been no
balance.
Besides 200 bound vollumes of the Transactions distributed to libraries and prominent medical alumni, 550 reprints
of each issue, or practically 5,00o reprints, were distributed
to physicians in the State and to alumni outside of the State.
Estimate for Volume 2 of Transactions for Year I9IO-II;
Year Ending October, I9II.
Printing ii issues, each I,ooo copies.$313.00
Binding 200 volumes Transactions.. 50.00
Postage, Reprints and Transactions   37.00
Total.......................$400.00
Estimate for Volume 3 of Transactions for 1911-12; Year
E'nding October, 1912.
Printing Io issues, each 1,ooo copies.$285.o0
Binding 200 volumes Transactions.. 50.00
Postage of Reprints and Transactions  65.o0
T otal.........................$400.00
These two estimates may be explained as follows:
I. The special fund last year was to pay for the year
before. It isi desirable to catch up with the issue of the
Transactions so that for the year I9II-I2 the reprints can
be issued monthly as soon as printed. This is a better plan
than waiting until the completion of the year.
2. The appropriation of $800., $40o. for each year, will
provide for the printing and issuing of a total of i6,8oo
reprints and 400 volumes, of the Transactions.
3. The discrepancy in thie two lestimlates for postage is
because of the difficulty of estimating exactly, where the
postage is third class, and by the pound. It has been. thought
that if the estimate be too; l;ow f;or Volume 2 the deficit will
be covered in the sum asked for Volume 3.




210


JULY MlEETING, 19II.


4. The regular number of issues will be ten. Thlere was
an extra issue in Volume 2 devoted to the subject of
infantile paralysis.
In conclusion allow me to, say that the MIedical Departnent appreciates the interest you and the Board of Regents
have shown in the project to familiarize the medical profession with the work being performed at the University Hospital.                    Respectfully,
RELUBEN Pr'IrRSON.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the appropriation asked
for in said communication, namely, $800., was granted.
Regent Clements and Regent Hanchett were out of
the room on this vote.
A  communication from      Professor H. C. Adams was
presented by the President, as follows:ANN ARBOR, July I9, I9II.
Dr. H. B. HUTCHINS,
President, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
MIy 'Dear President Hutchi'ns:-Permi:t me to transmit
through you to, the Honorable Board of Regents a check for
$i,ooo. drawn! by Mr. Joseph Boyer of Detr.oit. This gift is
made to assist the University inl making an,experiment with
a technical course in Railway Transportation. Mr. Boyer
expressed the wish that it should be used in. the manner
which seemls to me most advantageous for attaining the end
held in view; and I would suggest that it be used for two
fellowships of either $40o. o;r $450. each, for the academic
year 1911-12, and that the remainder be used in the same
way as the "Adam s Flund" has been used during the past
two years.             Respectfully submitted,
HENRY C. ADAMS.
The President reported that he       had deposited    the
check with the Treasurer of the University to the credit
of the Transportation Course Fund.
On motion of Regent Beal, the thanks of the Regents
were tendered to Mr. Joseph Boyer for the gift of $1,000.,
and by the same motion, the Board directed that the
money be used for two fellowships of $450. each, the
incumbents to be nominated        by Professor Henry       C.
Adams, the remainder of the fund to be expended under




JULY MEETING, 191.                  211
his direction. Regent Clements and Regent Hanchett
were out of the room.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of Professor Isaac N. Demmon, Dr. S. F. Gingerich
was appointed Instructor in English at the salary of
$1,000. for the coming year. (This involves an increase
of $100. in the budget.) Regent Hanchett was out of
the room.
Regent Bulkley presented the annual report of Dr.
A. G. Ruthven, Curator of the Museum. On motion of
Regent Bulkley, the report was accepted and ordered
printed, as providet in the Museum budget.
On motion oi Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty cf the Department f Literature, Science, and tht Arts, degrees were granted as
follows:Bachelor of Science
Charles Junius Conover
Edward Hutchison Coulson
Chester Arthur Doty
Herman John August Grossmann
Edwin Alonzo Hollister
Arthur Koehler
Edward F. M\cCarthy
George Irving Naylor
Norman William Scherer
William Alexander Van Winkle
Bachelor of Arts
Hubhert Edwin Bell
Grace Cameron
Fay Goodcell Clark
George Combs
Walter Irvin Deffenbaugh
Winsliow Lamont Gooch
Clark Webster Gould
John Hemenway
Henry Milton Hundertmark
Adelaide MacDonald
Mlelvin Verne Oggel
William Ira Searles
Emory Walter Sink
Benjamin Franklin n Harrison Thorward




212


JULY MIEJEETING, 1911.


Master of Science in Forestry
Whiting Alden, A.B.
Richiard Hans Doouai Boerker, A.B., Dartmouth College
Richard Henry Good;e, A.B., Daartmlouth College
H;oward Albro Green, B.S.
Edwlard Isaac Kotok, B.S., College City of New York
George Washington Lyons, B.S., University of California
Harry Boyd M\aris, A.B.
George Randolph Molrrison, A.B.
Quincy Randles, B.S., University of Wooster
Edwinl Clytus Shepard, B.S., Colgate University
Earl Jarvis Young, A.B.
Master of Science
Earl William Osgerby, B.Ch.E.
Master of Arts
Charlies Beman Franklin, A.B.
Eliza Lucinda Gilpin, A.B., Albion College
Joseph Ralston Hayden, B.S., Kamox College
Herbert David Laube, B.S., University of Wisconsin
Lyle Dee McMillan, A.B.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, teachers' diplomas were
granted as follows:
Hubert Edwin B4ell
George Combs
Walter Irving Deffenbaugh
Adelaide MacDonald
On motion of Regent Beal, following        the  recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the degree of Bachelor of
Science, granted   by the   Regents to    Carl Benjamin
DeForest on June 27, 1911, was changed to that of
Bachelor of Arts.
On motion of Regent Beal, the following resolution
was adopted, in accordance with a communication from
Director E. D. Campbell presented by Regent Beal:



JULY MEETING, i9ii.                        213
Resolved, That all assistants in Chlemistry and Pharmacy
hereafter be riequired 'to make a deposit with the Treasurer
of the University of ione dollar for each key issued to them,
the money so deposited to lbe returned to them by the Treasurer of the University on, receipt of a statement from the
Accountant of the Chemical Laboiratory that the keys had
been turned in, and that any money dieposited' for) keys not
called for within one year of the time when the depositor
severed his.connection with the University should revert to
the General Fuund.
On motion of Regent Leland, action recommended in
the communication from      the Secretary of the University,
given below, was authorized:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for July 20, 1911.
One of the recommlendationss of Mr. Springer adopted at
the meeting of June 27 provided that 'the Summner Session
salaries 'left with' the University in 'order to earn leave of
absence should be actually paid over to the person by whom
such salaries were 'earned, and deposited by the same person
with the Treasurer to be kept by him in ia separate accolunt,
as the trust funds are kept. There are now subject to, payment the following salaries which under, the resolution
of the Board should be added to the budget, paid to the person's in, question, and by them deposlited with the Treasurer
and set aside in a separate fund. These amounts are actually
subject to withdrawal at any timle.
H. P. Breitenbach...................... $576.oo
Joseph Bursley..........................  288.00
R. B. Canfield............................  9o.oo
C. L. Meader............................  742.50
A. W. Smith.......................  970.50
Total...............................$3,567.o00
This year's budget already makes provision for the withdrawal oif 'the salaries of three other personis to a total
amount of $2,349.
SiHIRIvY W. SMITH.
July 20, I9II.




214


JULY MHEETING, I9 r.


On motion of Regent Leland, the following          resolution was adopted:WHEREAS, The Alumni Association of thie University of
M'ichigan has requested the Board of Regents of said University to indicate to, what University activity or movement
said Association shoiuld primarily devote itself, in the immlediate future,
Resolved, That, in the opinion of the said Board, the
raising of funds for the building and equipping of anl adequate home for the University of Michigan Union,.and for
the endowmlent iof the same, is an activity to, which. the General Alumni Association should devote itself for the niext
five years, unless the purpose be sooner accomplished.
Regent Bulkley      presented   a  communication     from
Secretary Smith as follows:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for July 20, I9II.
Mr. E. M. Ledyard, a former resident of Washtenaw
County and now Assistant Professor of Entomolgy in the
University of the Philippines, has a year's leave of absence
which he proposes to spend in part at least as a studlent in
the University Summer Session and in the regular session.
Mrs. Ledyard also, wishes to study.  Professor Ledyard
brought home with him, at considerable expense, a collection
of Philippine entomologioal specimens: which he was willing
to present to the University on condition that the University would refund the fees which would ordinarily be charged
himself and his wife. Doctor Ruthven, Curator of the Museum, after examining the collection, advised the President
and myself that it wias easily wrorth $3,000., and after consulting with the Executive Committee, we gave Professor
Lecdyard assurance that his fees would be returned to him in
the form of a purchase price equal to the amount of the fees,
for this collection, which was agreeable to him. As, a mlatter
of fact, the collections have cost him a large portion of the
sum which the University would pay himn, namely, about
$175, for transportation charges alone, and it is believed the
University owes Mr. Leddyard a vote of thanks for his generosity, in addition to such refund as may be made.
SHIRLY W. SMITH.
July o1, 1911.




JULY MEETING, 9". II.


215


On motion of Regent Bulkley, it was voted by the
Board that Mr. and Mrs. Ledyard be granted refund of
tuition for the time specified in the above communication, and a vote of thanks was tendered to him         for the
collection.
Regent Leland, Regent Clements, and Regent Bulkley were excused.
The following communication from        the Secretary of
the University was presented by the President, and on
motion   of Regent Sawyer, the        appointments     named
therein were approved:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting calledl for July 2,0, 1911.
The following appointments have been made to assistantships and are hereby submitted to the Board for approval
and.record.  All these positions are provided for in the
bud-get.
James D. Burby, A.B., as Teaching Assistant in General
and Physioal Chemistry at $500. for I9II-I912.
George Stanley Rutherford, B.S.,,as Teaching Assistant
in General and Physical Chemistry at $450. for 191I-I912.
Alfred Lynn, Ferguson, A.B., A.M., as Teachling Assistant in General and Physical Chemistry at $450. for 19rI-1912.
Lawrence C. Johnslon, A.B., as Teaching Assistant in
General and Physical Chemistry at $40o. for 191I-I912.
S. H. Regester, A.M., as, Teaching Assistant in General
and Physical Chemistry for the first term only, at the rate
of $400. per year, $200.
John White Livingston as Assistant.in General and
Physical Chemistry at $200. for I9II-1912.
Richard Franklin Keeler as Assistant in General and
Physical Chemistry at $I1o. for 19II-1912.
Frank Devil'low Hiaskins as Assistant in General and
Physical Chemistry at $I50. for I9II-I,912.
Philip T. Schnitzspahni as Assistant in General and
Physical Chemistry at $Io0. for 19II-I912.
Leonard H. Cretcher as Assistant in General and Physical Chemistry at $0oo. for I91I-I912.
Edward Adrian DeWindt as Assistant in General and
Physical Ch.emistry at $0o. for 1911-1912.




216


JULY MEETING, 191r.


George A. Stumpmleyer as Assistant in    General and
Physical Chemistry at $Io0. for 1911-1912.
Lambert Thorp, M.S., as Assistant in General land Physical Chemistry without salary.
John C. Brier as Assistant in General and Physical
Chemistry without salary.
Ray Herbert Bryant as Assistant in General and Physical Chemistry without sa!lary.
Joseph Daniel Yoder as Assistant in Quantitative Analysis at $200. for 1911-1912.
Mark Edson1 Putnam as Teaching Assistant in Organic
Chemnistry at $400. for I9II-I912.
Robert Lee Jickling- as, Assistant in Organic Chemistry
at $200. for I9II-I912.
Clarence Jay West as Assistant in Organic Chenistry
at $I50. for 1911-1912.
Florence Mi\. Bancroft as Second Stenographer in the
offices,of the Dean of the Diepartment of Engineering at $30.
per month, appointment to date from July I, 19II.
Bert Edwin Quick as Assistant in! Botany from April 17
to the close of the second semester, 1910-1911, withl co1mpensation at the rate of $5o. for the semester, to succeed
Kenn,eth W. Duncan, resigned.
Charles Stuart Johnson, Assistant in Chemical Engineering, from April 3 for the remaining 12 weeks of the last
semester of I9I0-I9II, succeeding H. C. Wierick, resigned,
with compensation at the rate of $5o. for the slemester.
(Th.ese two appointmients of Messrs. Quick and Johnson
have never been placed on record.)
Miss Allura Rudd, Secretary of the Tleachers' Appointment Committee, to succeed Miss Cora A. Hardinghaus,
resigned, with salary at thbe rate of $8oo. per year, services
and colmpenlsation to begin at such time as may be desired
by Professor A. S. Whitney.
Burton G. Grim, A.B., Reader i1n English for the year
I9II-I912 at $200.
G. N. Fuller, M.A., Assistant in History for the yeal
I9II-I912 at $300.
Margaret A. Stone, A.B., Assistant in History for th{
year 19II-I912 at $300.
H. E. Williams, A.B., Assistant in History for the yea:
I9II-I912 at $350.
John Warren Richardson, Student Assistant in the Engi
neering Shops, to succeed George B. Emerson, at $200. fo
the year I911-19I2.




JULY MEETING, I9II.


217


Miark ]Edson Putnam, Assistant in Chemistry for the
Summier Session of I9II at $40.
George Willard Maxwell, Assistant inc Chemistry for the
Summer Session o-f I911 at $40.
Percy James Hubbard, Assistlant in Chemistry for the
Summer Sesision of I9II at $40.
Edigar A. DeWin!dt, Assistant in Chemistry    for the
Summer Sessionl of I911 at $40.
G. Stanley Rutherford, Assistant in Chemistry for the
Summer Sles;sioln,of I911I at $40.
Leonard H. Cretcher, Assistant in Chemistry for the
Summner Sessiioin,of I1911 at $40.
Albert George Dersch, Assistant in Chemistry for the
Summer Seesisioln of 191I at $40.
Henry S. Rawdon, Assistant in      Chemistry for the
Summer Session of I9II at $40.
Edward Willson Upham, Assistant in Chemistry for the
Summer Session of I911 at $40.
Richard Franklin Keeler, Assistant in Chlemistry for the
Summer Session of I9II at $40.
Dr. Miatthew Kollig as Physician, Post Master, and Telephone Attendant, at the Bogardus Engineering Camp, at
$I60. for thie Sunimler Session of I9II.
Ellwo'od Griest, Assisistant in, Zoology for the year I911 -I912, vice Carl Oberlin, withdrawn, at the same salary,
namely, $00o.
C. G. Glover, continued as holder of the Frederick
Stearns & Company Scholarship in Pharmacognosy at $.20
per hour for the time actually spent, within the discretion of
Dean Schlotterbeck, in accordance with  the arrangemlent
originally recorded on page 98. Mr. C. G. Glover is also to
be continued as Assistant in Pharmacognosy without pay.
'Selma Schlessinger, Half Timle Stenographer in the Department of Law   at $300. per year, appointment dating
July I, I9II.
Frank C..Cole, D.D.S., Demonstrator of Clinical Dentistry for the year I9II-I912 at $250.
Archibold J. MIcLeod, D.D.S., Demonstrator of Clinical
Dentistry for the year 19II-191I2 at $250.
Roy H. Purdy, D.D.S., Demnonstrator of Clinical Dentistry for the year I9II-I912 at $250.
Earl F. Randolph, D.D.S., Demlonstrator of Clinical Dentistry for the year 1911-1912 at $250.
Albert E. Wilson, D.D.S.., Dlemonstrator of Operative
Technics in the Department of Dentistry fo'r the year 1911 -1912 at $300.




218


JULY MEETING, I9r I.


Paul E. Born, Assistant in Dental Physics and Chemistry
at $50o. for the year I91I-1912.
Rufus Leigh, Stenographer (half timle) for July, August
and September, in the Deent'al Departmelt, at $25. per month.
Win. Hintz, Dispensing Assistant in the Chemiical Laboratory for the year 1911-I912, to succeed Hulgo Volz, resigned, at $50c. per year, appointment to date from July I,
I9II.
Gerda Okerlund, Stenographer to the Dean of the Homceopathic Medical College, for thee year I9II-I912, at $25. per
month, appointment to date from July I, I9II.
Dr. Glenn T. Soule, Ho!use Physician for the year I911 -1912 at University Hl-ospital, at $4co., appointment to date
from July I, IgrI. This is in accordance with the following
action of the Hospital Committee at a meeting held June 310,
when the Superintendlent placed; in nominatioll the name of
Dr. G. T. Soule for House Physician. 'Ihe nomination was
unanimotusly confirmed by the Hospital Committee.
J. S. Brown, Laboratory Assistant inl Chemistry for the
Summer Session, without salary.
F. W. Graupner, Laboratory Assistant in Chemistry for
the Summlner Session, without salary.
Cecil H. Williams, A.M.., Assistant in German for 191r1912 at $300.
Frederick B. Wahr, A.B., Assistant in Gernan for I91I1912 at $300.
Alfred E. Lussky, A.M., Assistant in German for I911 -I9I2 at $300.
SHIRULY W. SaMITH.
July II, 1911.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was passed:Resolvecd, That in case any employee of the University
on monthly or yearly salary (membhers of the teaching force
excepted) is absent from his or her regular duties for any
cause whatever for more than two consecutive days, it shall
be the duty of the head' of the department in which such
person is regularly employed to file written notice with the
Secretary of the University stating cause, etc.
On   motion of     Regent Beal, following       the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the degree of Bachelor of
Science was granted to Harold Blair.




JULY MlLEETING, 19.I.


219


On motion of Regent Grant, the unexpended balance
of the appropriation for current expenditures for the
Department of Law for the year 1910-1911 was allowed
to be carried over to cover the printing of the 1911-1912
announcement and other regular disbursements for current expenses properly chargeable for the year 1910-1911.
This balance is reported at the present time to be $251.62.
On the same motion, the $60. appropriated last year
for furniture for Dean Bates's office, which sum has not
been expended, was allowed to be carried over for the
same purpose into the present academic year.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Clinical Faculty of the University Hospital, the Board authorized the appointment of a
skilled anaesthetist in said hospital, whose residence shall
be in the hospital and whose compensation shall be fixed
by the Board of Regents at the time of his appointment.
Regent Beal presented the following communication
from Acting Dean Kraus, and on motion of Regent Beal,
the changes and appointments were authorized, provided
they do not involve any increase in the budget:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for July 20, 19I1. 
The President hras received the following communrication from Professor E. H. Kraus, Acting Dean of the Summer Session, which he submits to the Board of.Regents:Dr. H. B. HUTCHINS,
President oif the University of Michigan.
Dear Sir:-I respectfully recommend the following appointmlents and changes in the teaching staff of the Summer
Session of 9II:English.
Assistant Professor F. S. Gingerich, one additional
course.....................$I28.00
Instructor W. R. Humphreys, one additional course.. 96.oo
Instructor H. S. Mallory, cnie course................  96.oo
(Vice Junior Professor J. S. Tatlock, withdrawn,
salary $320.)
$320.o0




220               JULY    MEETING, I9II.
Political Economy.
Professor F. M. Taylor, one additional course.......$200.00
Instructor W. H. Hamilton, (one additional course...  96.00
(Vice Instructor D. Friday, withdrawn, salary
$192.)
$296.oo
Chemistry.
Assistant E. Whitney..............................$ 40.00
(Vice A. G. Dersch, withdrawn, salary $40.)
Library Methods.
Instructor F. L. D. Goodrich...................... $ioo.oo
(Provided for in the budget.)
Civil Engineering.
Instructor A. J. Decker, three courses............ $288.00oo
Otolaryngology.
Instructor R. C. Plummer, two courses.............$135.oo
(Vice Professor R. D. Canfield, withdrawn, salary
$240.)
Pathology.
Instructor C. V. Wielller, three courses.............$202.50
(Vice Instructor R. L. Dixon, withdrawn, salary
$2012.50.)
The abolve appointments and changes are well within
the budget, inasmuch as the withdrawal of Assistant Professor H. H. Higbie from the Department of Electrical
Engineering' allows his, salary of $384. to be drawn upon.
Special Lecturer.
Professor J. J. Findlay, University  of Manchester,
England....................................  $ 50.00
(To be charged to the general expense account.)
Very respectfully,
EDWARD H. KRAUS,
Acting Dean of the Summer Session.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Acting Dean of the Summer Session, the following appointments were made in the Summer Session as provided in the budget:



JULY    MEETING,       9ii.               221
Library Assistants.
Miiss F. B. Gillette, Assistant in General Library.... $75
Herbert Patterson, Assistant in Law Library............  25
Chemical Engineering.
Junior Professor A. H. White, two courses............$320
(Vice K. W. Zimmlerschied, withdrawn.)
Dean Bates appeared and made a statement concerning the Michigan Law Review, whereupon, on motion
of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $1,000. was appropriated
for the purpose of aiding the Review       in carrying on its
work.
Regent Sawyer presented the following communication from  Professor Kelsey:To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if poossible at your meeting called for July 20, 19II.
The President has received the following communication
from Professor Francis W. Kelsey, approved by Professor
Herbert Richard Cross, which he submits to the Board:ANN ARBOR, July 12, I91I.
President H. B. HUTCHINS,
University of Michigan.
Dear Mr. President:-As you are aware, in the basement of the Mem'orial Building is at present stored the largest
and most valuable colllection of Latin inscriptions in the possession of any university in Amierica. These have all been
presented as gifts to the University'of Michigan. We now
find that it will be possible to install them permanently before
October I. They can be grouped upon the walls of the stairways,, as in some foreign museums, where they can be seen
land studied, and will be safe from damage.
In I9IO the Board of Regents made 'an appropr' tion of
$5oo. for the "Removal of Art Collections." This iand was
drawn upon not only to cover the cost of removal from the
Art Gallery in the Library Building, but also, the expense of
installation of the paintings and of the two groups of the,Casts of the Arch of Trajanr (oln the second floor), besides
sundry small items and the cost of the case for small objects
($I28.30), o'n the second floor. Thlere remains to the credit
of this fund -a balance of about $8o. This sum is not suffi



222


JULY MliEETING, _9Ir.


ci.ent tot provide for the restoration of the color of the inscriptions and their permanent installation. Precisely how mnuch
money will be needed in order to complete the work we cannot tell, but the amoiunt slhould not exceed $Ico. in addition
to the balance upon the previous appropriation. Will you
therefore kindly ask the Board of Regents to appropriat-e an
amotunt not exceeding $1o0., to be used for the purpose indicated in addition to the sum available on the previous appropriation, it being understlood that only so much of the appropriation will be used for the purpose as may be needied. All
the work can be done by Campus workmen except the coloring (restoration, of the original color of the letters), which
is paid for at thie rate of tw-enty cents per hour.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANCIS W. KELSIEY:
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum           of $100. was
appropriated for the purposes indicated above.
Regent Sawyer presented the following communication from   Professor M. L. D'Ooge and others:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for July.20, 1911.
The Commnittee of the 'University Senate on the Publication of University Studies makkes report as follows:
Within the past year Volume III, edited by Professor
C. L. MTeader, and Volume IV, edited'by Professor H. A.
Sandiers, have been publishecd and distributed; also the first
part of Volume VIII, treating of his Manuscript of Deuteronomy and Joshua in tfhe Freer Collection, which was freely
distributted at the same time that the fac-simile of this manuscript was sent to, the principal university libraries of the
world. (Proceedings of the Board of Regents, 1910, pp. 822 -824.)
Hon. J. M. Longyear has sent $I,0oo. as the first payment
of his subscription toward the cost o-f Volume VII, by Director Arthur Fairbanks of thle Museum of Fine Arts, Boston;
this volume is in press. Professor Sanders is at work upon
the first part of Volume IX which will treat of the MNanuscript of the Gospels in the Freer Collection. The Coptic
text of Volumne X is nearly ready for the printer, and.Dr.
W. I-. W;orrell, the editor, is now in Europe gathering
matcrial for the introduction and commentary. It seemed




JULY IMIEETING, 191I.


223


to be desirable to have a new fon-t of Coptic type specially
designed for this volume, and /Mr. Charles L. Freer authorized a contract with the American Type Founders Company
of Boston for this work, which is' being executed from
designs of tihe type made by Dr. Worrell.
Dr. Edward L. Adams has finally made ready for the
printer the manuscript of Volume II on "Word Formation
in Prov.encal," toward the publication of which the Board of
Regen'ts made an appropriation of $350. (Decen'mbler meeting,
I906, p. 56). When Dr. Adams proceeded with the final
revision of his material he found it necessary to incorporate
so mluch new matter that the bulk of the volume was inr.eased one-half. As the original appropriation contemplated
a volume of four hunldred pages, while the manuscript, the
value of whichl as a contribution -to, knowledge is beyond
question, will make a v'olume of six hundred pages, the value
of the book to the University as an "exchange" being correspondingly.enhanced, we respectfully request that the
appropriation of $350. be raisled to $50o. for this volume, it
being understood that the remainder of the cost, $I,Ioo., the
total cost of thle volumle being estimated at $I,6oo, be defrayed from other sources.
The whotle expenditure osf the University thus far for
these publications amounts to $1,050.; the funds already
expended or on deposit awaiting 'expenditure 'or pledged for
the publication of the vollumes arranged for amount to more
than $3;0,000., including in their 'total the cost of tlle two facsimiles of the Freer manuscripts published' by the University
in connectioin with the Humanistic Series, although not listed
in it.             Respectfully submitted,
M1\ARTIN L. D'OoG:,
V. C. VAUGHAN,
R. M. WyNLvY,
A. G. CANVIELD,
ISAAC N. DlsAMMON.
July 12, I9II.
It was moved by Regent Sawyer that, provided the
appropriation of $350., which was made at the December
meetingo in 1906 has lapsed, an appropriation of $500. be
made for the completion of the Volume II, and that in
case it has not lapsed, an appropriation of $150. be made.
This motion was adopted by the Board.




224           JULY MEETING, I19I.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the certificate of graduation from the University Hospital Training School for
Nurses was granted to the following:
Lulu June Heintz
Louise M. Bach
The request for an adding machine at the University
Hospital was not allowed.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the salary of Leslie di.
Harris, storekeeper at the University Hospital, was
increased to $50. per month, it being understood that he
was to be maintained at the hospital no longer.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the certificate of
graduation from the Homceopathic Hospital Training
School for Nurses was granted to the following:Martha E. Winkler
Jessie Myra Thomas
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the request of Henry
T. Purfield, Dispensing Accountant in the College of
Dental Surgery, that his vacation be extended from two
weeks to one month, was granted.
On motion of Regent Grant, the sum of $500. was
appropriated to apply on the publication of the University Catalogue of Alumni.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise specified.
On motion the Board adjourned to September 28.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.
Per Beulah B. Davis, Acting.




APPENDIX
BUDGET OF I9II-I912
As APPROVED MAY 25, I9II
Following there is presented (I) the estimatedc income of the
University for the year I9II-I912; (2) the;annual budget and o.ther:appropriations (,exclusive of special building  fund,s) in detail by
Departments and sub-departments, together with a summary, and
(3) a statement o-f new appointments and reappointments and changes
in titles and salaries made in the Budget.
(i) INCOME
The estimated income for I9II-1912, based on previous experience, is as follows:3/ Mill Tax (subject to change by new equalization)....$ 65o,287.50
Students' Fees (basis of I9IO-I19II) net, exclusive   of.
Summer Session............................3....       302,523.5I
Summer Session (as in I9I).......................      25,848.50
Interest on Endowment (as in I9O-I9II)..............  38,481.25
Homceopathic Account..............................     6,ooo.oo
Summer Hospitals.....................................  3,000.00
University Hospital (as in I9I0-I9II)..................    89,173.76
Homoeopathic Hospital (as in I9-I9II)...............  35,872.32
Dental Operatinig Room (as in I9I0-I19II)..............       11,295.04
Pasteur Institute (as in I1910-I9I11)...................   1,200.00
Diplomas (as in I9I-I9)...........................         I1,170.00
Interest on Deposits (;as in I9I0-I9II).................  2,641.44
Rent of Houses (as in I910-I9II).....................       I,420.OI
Miscellaneous (as in 19IO-I9II)........................     11,146.78
$I,I90,060.II
Net balance on hand June 30, I9 1.................      I4,261.7I
Estimated Income, including balance at beginning o,f
year.............$................ $I0,34,32I.82




(2) ANNUAL DEPARTMENTAL BUDGET FOR I911-I912
API'ROVED MAY.25, 19, I
Current
No. Persons    Pay Roll      Expense       Equipment         Total
General Administration.............................          7-  $30,260................       $30,260.00
Buildings and Grounds.............................       12       II,620.00      $ 796.00       $o.oo0         12,516.00
Janitor Roll...................32                                 i6,85,.00,,8oo.oo.......         8,650.00
Chief Engineer.....................................       4        4,400.00.............                   4,400.
Superintendent Printing and Binding Plants..........          I     1,300.00..............,300.00
Custodian M Iemorial Hall..........................       I         6.00...............          6co.oo
General Pay Roll....                                  67     $65,030.00      $2,596.00       $roo.oo      $67,726.oo
Departmlent of Literature, Science, anld the Arts
Currlent
SrU-DExrPARTMrl'NTrs                         No. Persons    Pay Roll       Expense      Equipment         Total
Administration.........                 8     $  7,400.00      $I,2oo.00    $ 150.00       $  8,750.00
Astronomy.....................................         4        8,300.00        765.00        500.00         9,565.co
Astronomy (Special for publishing results of work)...............         500.00........           500.00
Botanical Garden...................................        3        2, 16o.00       575.0o       3305.00l        3,040.oo
Land:scape Design.........................      I,600.00........        64.00          2,240.C
Botany.............................................        I4   I2,900.00        792.00        8o8.co        I4,500.00
English.............................................       8      12,650.00         25.00        1 50.00       12,825.00
Education..........................................       6       10,400.00........        I O.OO        10,500.00
Education Appointment Committee................           3        1,500.00        oo.oo........         2,400.00
Fine Arts..........................................       I,600.................,6oo.oo




Forestry..........................................
Romlance Languages
Geology.....
German............................................
Greek
History.
L atin...............................................
Latin..Mathematics................................
Mineralogy.........................................
Music..............................................
Oratory..
Philosophy.........................................
Physics.........
Political  Econom y..................................
Political  Science....................................
Rhetoric 
Semi-tics 
Zoology 
Graduate School (including 10 Fellows).............
Add Balances from    I9I-I9...................
Less Overdrafts of    910-9...................
Net for Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts...............................
*Net, less duplicates.


8       8,300.00       850.00
o       18, roo.o00      5.00
9       8,750o.oo       5o.00
13      I8,6oo.o        60.ooo
3       6,5100o.0       30.00
13      19,5510.00      6o.oo
6      I0,400.00        40.00
8      15,200.00       100.00
8       6,6oo.oo       575.00
I       3,500.00       2010.00
6       4,100I.00      125.00
8      15,500.00       5oo.00
15      20,850.00      625.00
12      20,6010.00      I50.00
2       3,7o0.0        I 100.00
13      15,850.0        5'0.010
I       3,500.00.
I4       2,732.oo      835.00
12       3,500.0;O     705.00
209    $274-342.00    $9,827.00
209    $274,342.00    $9,827.00
I.00
209   $274,342.o0     $9,826.o;


750.00       9,9go.oo
130.00      I8,245.00
7'50.00      9,550.0o
165.00      I8,8215.00
30.00       6,560.0oo
100.00      I9,710.00
210.00      IO,650.o0........   I5,300.00
425.00       7,6oo.co........   3,700.co...........4,225.00........   6,000.010 
2,700.000     24,175.00  u
IOo.oo  2,0,850.00     >
25.00       3,825o00........   15,900.00 0.............. 3,500.00 
750.o0      I4,317.00........   4,205.0'0
$8,788.00    $292,957.0-0
331.78         331.78
$9,119-78    $293,288.78
1.00
$9,119.78    $293,287.78  -o




Department of Engineering


SUB-DEPARTMENTS                              No. Persons
Administration....................................      8
English.....................................   6
Modern Languages...............................  10
Mathemaltics...................................... 13
Drawing............................................       6
Shops..............................................      25
Surveying................................  I9
Est. Camp Fee Fund...........................
Civil Engineering...........................  14
Mechanical Engineeringg...........................7
Electrical Engineering............................       13
Chemical Engineering.............................     7
Marine Engineering.................................  3
Architecture........................................      5
Equipment Remainder of Department................


Pay Roll
$4,250.00
5,900.00
13,119.00
21,500.00
i8,ooo.oo
23,800.00
12,800.00
17,400.00
22,000.00
15,400.00
6,g0oo.lo
5,000.00
8,200.00
$I74,269.oo


Current
Expense
$ 1,81o.oo
50.00
30.00
30.00
300.00
2,610.00
1,690.oo
520.00
I,145.00
2,600.00
I, 120.00
750o.00
450.00
280.00
$I3,385.00oo
I6.32
$13,401.32
65.38


Equipment
$ 2,500.00
12,500,00
$5,oo00o.o00
5,621.89
$20,621.89..............
$2o,6 21I.89


Total     o
$ 6,060.00
5,950.00
13,149.00
21,530,00
18,3o0.00
26,4Io0.oo
14,49o.00
520.00
18,545.o0 o
24,600o. oo
16,520.00 
7,650o0oo
5,450.00 
10, 980.o00 
12,500.00
$202,654.00oo
5,638.21
$208,292.21I
65.38.,


Additional balances from  1910-1911..


'153............


Less Overdrafts in 1910-1911....................


Net for Department of Engineering.............. 53
*-Net, less duplicates.


$I 74,269.00


$13,335-94  $20,621.8g    $208,226.83




SUB-DEPARTMENTS
Administration.........


Department of 2M1edicine and Surgery
No. Persons  Pay Roll.............  3   $I,400.00


Anatomy...................................
Dermatology.......................................
Histology.
Hygiene and Bacteriology...........................
Internal Medicine....
Materia M        aedica and Therapeutics 
Neurology..........................................
Obstetrics and Gynecology..........................
O phthalm ology.....................................
Otolaryngology..............................
Pathology......
Physiology.........................................
Surgery............................................
Add balances from    I9IO-I9II...................


8
2
4
12
7
4
4
5
4
4
4
6
IO0
*70


6,l900.0o
1,300.00
6,20o0.o
13,650.00
7,480.00
4,9100.00
2,980.00
Provided for
3,040.00
3,640.00
5,3010.00
4,800.oo
Io,130.00
$7I,720.00


Current
Expense     Equipment
$  8oo00.00........
2,400.00    $ I00.00
200.00...
90o.00o      200.00
6, 00.00o     770.0 0
595. o       360.oo0
500.00       I00oo.oo
I00.00       100.00
in Bates Professorship Fund.
337.00       425.00
400.00       250.00
1,501.00      375 00o
55o00o       250.00
577.80       I65.oo
$I4,959.8o    $3,o95.00
45.I2       326.74
$I5,004.92    $3,421.74
261.57       187.9I
$14,743-35    $3,233.83


Total
$ 2,200.00
9,400.00
I,500.00
7,300.o0
20,520.00
8,435.00
5,500o00
3,I8o.oo
3,180.00
3,802.00
4,290.00
7,175.00
5,600.0io
10,872.80
$89,774.80
371.86
$90,I 46.66
449- 8
$89.697. 18


Less Overdrafts of I9Io-I911.....................
Net for Department of Medicine and Surgery..... 70
"Net, less duplicates and Bates Fund.


$71,720.00




Chemical Laboratory


to
0






SUB-DEPARTMENTS                             No. Perse
Administration.....8..............................    8
rChpnliirl  -neorinP.rio-l.


Current
Mns    Pay Roll    Expense
$ 4,000.00    $I4,152.00


Equipment
$2,495.00


Total
$20,647.00


General and Physical Chemistry......................    19       14,500.00................        I4,500.00
Analytical Chemistry............................  17       I2,000.00.................        12,000.00
Organic  Chemistry..................................    5        5,850.00.............          5,85o.00
*46     $36,350.00     $I4, 52.00     $2,495.00      $52,997.00
The remaining Departments of the University are not divided into sub-departments.      Therefore see summary of
Budget below.


a
^3
h

SUMMARY OF BUDGET FOR I9II-I9I2, AS APPROVED MAY 25, 1911. THIS DOES NoT INCLUDE SPECIAL BUILDING FUNDS  21
OR GIFT FUNDS.


No. Persons
General  Pay  Roll................................  67
Depar.tment of Literature, Science and the Arts...... 209
Department of Engineering......................... I53
Department of Mledicine and Surgery................     70
Chem ical Laboratory................................   46
Department of Law................................   33
School  of  Pharmacy...............................     6
*Net, less duplicat-s.


Pay Roll
$65,030.00
274,3412.00
174,269.00
71,720.00
36,350.00
65,750.00
6,6oo.oo


Current
Expense
$ 2,596.00
9,826.00
I3,335.94
I4,743.35
14,152.00
1,400.00
255.00


Equipment
$  I00.00
9, I9.78
20,621.89
3,233.83
2,495.oo
6o.oo
0. 0 0... 


Total
$ 67,726.oo
293,287.78
208,226.83
89,697. IS
52,997.00
67,2I0.00
6,855.00




Homceopathic Medical College.......................    13
HIomoeopathic Laboratory Student Fee Fund (Est.)..
College of Dental Surgery..........................   20
Dental College Clinic Expense 
Department of Women............................        4
Watermran Gymnasium..............................  5
University Museum.................................     4
Libraries (includiing Bindery, excluding salaries Law
Library)...................................  64
B ook s............................................
Law Library Fee Fund (Estimated)..................
Medical Library Fee Fund (Estimated)..............
Summer Session...................................
Summer Session Salary Deposits left with Treasurer,
to be paid in I911-1912.........................
University Ho!spital........................       58
Homceopathic Hospital...........................      55
Total for Departments..........................*9o6
*Net.


15,350.00
17,300.00
4,400.00
4,800.o0
3,6o0.00
25,970.o0
45,384.50
2,349.00
34,468.0o
13,512.00
$86, 194.50


850.o0       I,000.00
I88.oo....
1,200.00       800.00
8,00.........
435. 00        6o.oo
150.00        1500.00
6co. oo       135.00
2,500.00...................  26,000.00..........  1,584.00..........    530.00
2,470.00
52,847.6.........
24,9I6.CO      2,00.00
$150,464.90    $67,989.50


17,200.00
i88.oo
19,300.00
8,o0o.oo
4,995.00
5,00o.00
4,335.00
56,584.00  Z
47,854.50 t5
2,349. 00 
87,315.61 i
40,428.00
$1,079,648.90




232                        APPENDIX.
Forwarded, Total for Departments...................$1,o79,648.90
Contingent...........................................    10,000.00
Fuel.............................62,500.00
Store Room...........00.00
R epairs..............................................    28,69I.oo
Miscellaneous Printing-...............................       3,500oo.co
Gas.................................................         2,500.00
Postage................................,500.00
Commencement Expense...........,500.00
Diplomas............................................,70o.oo
Carpenter Shop....................00..................00oo
Carpenter Shop Equipment..........................1oo.oo
Masons' Supplies..................................,ooo.oo
Painter's supplies...................................        1,700.00
Water........4,000.00
Care of Teams......................00.............          i,ooo.oo
Electrical  Supplies...................................     3,15.00
Heating Supplies...................................          2,500.00
Phone    Rental........................................,800.0oo
Printing Plant Expense..............................         2,000.00
Printing Schoolmnasters' Club Reports................          70.00
Alumni Association..................................         1,400.00
M aintenance  of  Grounds.............................      2.000.00
Publicity and Organization among Alumni............          7,000.00
University Hall Toilet Room Repairs.............              2,240o.oo00
University Extension...............................       0,000.00
Observation Facilities in High School................,65o.oo
Museum Expedition to Mexico..............250.00
Dresden Exhibit.........................             200.00
Chemical Laboratory Apparatus and Furniture.........          2,850.00
(Including certain Balances and Overdrafts, as above
stated, $1,171,305.76.)
Add the following balances to be carried over from
1910-1911:General Catalogue Revision..........................             25.50
Removal of Art Gallery..............................          232.27
Photographs of Buildings........................               92.25
General Library, Seminary Roomss....................           589.75
Furniture, Dean's Office, Law Department.............           60.00
Homocopathic Hospital Shacks........................           69.80
Furniture North Wing...............................            39-72
Plans for Repairs, Old M. edical Building..............       200.00
Preliminary Plans for Power Plant..................            00.00
Shelving for Arch of Trajan....................150.00




APPENDIX.                            233
Auditing.............................................      200.00
Clinical Society Reprints, Volume I...................       98.48
Furniture N. W. Room, Memorial Building............        289.85
Fire Proof Room for Plans and Specifications..........      78.34
Rewiring Stack Room General Library................        300.00
Apparatus and Furnishings Eye and Ear Ward........         271.00
T-omceopathic Laboratory Student Fee Fund...........        I48.50
Homceopathic Hospital..............................         49.56
General Library Book Account.......................        I43.27
Medical Library......................................       36.28
Medical Library Student Fee Fund..................         155.82
Law Library Student Fee Fund.....................         1,055.09
Homceopathic Library................................      82.56
Dental Library.....................................         70.18
Musieum Equipment..................................          7.09
Repairs General Library.............................        98.26
Furniture Administrative Offices.....................       55.54
Physiology and Materia M'edica (Lantern)............       260.00
Law Department (Curren;t Expense)............       47-41
Special Assistance for Dean Butts....................      I50.0o
$1,248,4o6.42
Deduct the following:Dental College Clinic Expense Overdraft......$1,42747
Summer Session 1911 Portion Anticipated..... 1,676.30
Engineering Library Overdraft...............     4.85
Law Library Overdraft......................        3.55
Pharmacy Overdraft.........................     I33.33
Summer Session Salaries Deposits Anticipated..   768.00
Commencement Expense Anticipated..........      492.21
4,542.71
Total Budget 1911-1912.........................$1,243,863.7I
Additional Appropriated May 25......................      2,556.26
Additional Appropriated June 27......................     5,842.10
Additional Appropriated July 20.......................     4,478.00
Total Net Current Appropriations 1911-1912 to July
20, inclusive.................................... $1,266,740.07




234


APPENDIX.


(3) -' NEw   APPOINTMEN'TS, RvEAPPO1N'1ME1N\TS, CHANGES IN TITLE,
AND INCREASES IN SALARY INCLUDED IN THE BUDGET OF I9II1912, AND NOT ELSEWHERE RECORDED IN THE REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS.
Departinent of Literature, Science, and the Arts
tJohn 0. Reed, salary as Dean fixed at $I,50o.
ITM.arian Goodrich, Assistant Registrar, salary fixed at $I,0oo.
[Charles H. Otis, Curator Botanical Garden, salary fixed at $700.
tAubrey Tealdi, Assistant Professor of Landscape Design, $1,600.
$Frederick C. Newcombe, Professor of Botany, salary fixed at $3,000.
$tJames B. Pollock, Junior Professor of Botany, $2,000.
tCalvin H. Kauffman, Assistant Professor of Botany, $1,600.
tHenri Th. DeL. Hius, Instructor in Botany, $1,400.
~Charles E. Temple, Instructor in Botany, $,o000.
~Harry N. Goddard, Assistant in Botany, $400.
~Adrian J. Pieters, Assistant in Botany, $400.
~Elizabeth D. Wuist, Assistant in Botany, $300.
~Frank C. Gates, Assistant in Botany, $400.
~Kenneth W. Duncan, Assistant in Botany, $200.
~Richard Gantz, Assistant in Botany, $200.
~George Keenan, Assistant in Botany, $200.
~Arthur Koehler, Assistant in Botany, $200.:Louis A. Strauss, Professor of English, $2,500.
tCharles S. Berry, Assistant Professor of Education, $I,8oo.
tGeorge L. Jackson, Assistant Professor of Education, $1,600.
~Calvin O. Davis, Vice-Chairm'1an Appointment Committee, $200.
tFilibert Roth, Professor of Forestry, salary fixed at $3,500.
tHerbert D. Austin, Instructor in French, $1,400.
tRene Talamon, Instructor in French, $1,400.
~Robert H. Plaisance, Instructor in French, $1,300.
~Albert E. Lyon, Instructor in French, $1,1oo.
~Charles W. Cook, Instructor in Geology, $1,200.
*The scale of salaries adopted in 1907 provides that Instructors shall ordi
narily begin at $900, and that increases shall be at the rate of $100 per yeai
until the salary of $1,400 is attained. Appointments of Instructors at $1,30(
or less are for one year; at $1,400 for three years. Assistant Professors
receive $1,600 for the first three years; thereafter, if advanced, $1,800
Junior Professors receive $2,000 for the first three years; thereafter, il
advanced, $2,200. Professors ordinarily receive from $2,500 to $3,500. Pro
fessorships and Junior Professorships are permanent appointments; Assistan
Professors are appointed for three years.
tThis list is not intended to include appointments elsewhere recorded in th<
Proceedings, and it is not intended to include (except in cases of change osalary) reappointments to quasi-permanent positions the incumbents of whicl
would ordinarily continue from year to year, unless superseded.
tFrom October 1, 1911.
l[For one year, from July 1, 1911.
-For three years, from October 1, 1911.
~For one year, from October 1, 1911.




APPENDIX.


235


~Roland C. Allen, Lecturer on Geology, $300.
~Frank Leverett, Lecturer on Glacial Geology, $250.:Max Winkler, Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures,
salary fixed at $3,000.
tEwald A. Boucke, Junior Professor of German, $2,000oo.
tCarl E. Eggert, Assistant Professor of German, $I,800.
tJohn W. Scholl, Instructor in German, $I,400.
~Richard Fey, Instructor in German, $9go.:Campbell Bonner, Junior Professor of Greek, $2,200.
tArthur L. Cross, Professor of History, $2,500.
~William A. Frayer, Instructor in History, $I,300.
~Harry A. McGill, Instructor in History, $I,ooo.
~J. Ralston Hayden, Assistant in History, $500.
~Arthur F. Strome, Assistant in History, $400.
~Frank F. Potter, Assistant in Latin, $300.:Joseph L. Markley, Professor of Math.ematics, salary fixed at $3,0oo.
~Carl J. Coe, Instructor in iMathematilcs, $I,0oo.
tEdward H. Kraus, Professor of Mineralogy and Petrography, and
Director of the Mineralogical Laboratory, salary fixed at $3,000.
~Robert W. Clark, Instructor in Petrography, $1,200.::Thomas C. Trueblood, Professor of Oratory, salary fixed at $3,500.
(Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, $I,9oo.;
Department of Law, $I,600.).
~George Eves, Assistant in Oratory, $300.
~Jos. G. Black, Assistant in Oratory, $I50.
~Thomas E. H. Black, Assistant in Oratory, $I50.
'::Alfred H. Lloyd, Professor of Philosophy, salary fixed at $2,700.
tCharles B. Vibbert, Instructor in Philosophy, $I,400.
tDeWitt H. Parker, Instructor in Philosophy, $I,400.
tKarl E. Guthe, Professor of Physics, salary fixed at $3,500.
tNeil H. Williams, Instructor in Physics, $1,400.
~Frank J. Mellencamp, Instructor in Physics, $I,Ioo.
~Jesse T. Littleton, Instructor in Physics, $9oo.
~Daniel L. Rich, Instructor in Physics, $I,Ioo.
~William W. Sleator, Instructor in Physics, $I,Ioo.
~J. O. Perrine, Assistant in Physics, $600.
tCharles H. Cooley, Professor of Sociology, salary fixed at $3,000.
~Carl E. Parry, Instructor in Political Economy and Sociology, $I,200.
~David Friday, Instructor in Economics,, $I,200.
~W.. Stewart, Instructor in Economics, $900.
~Walter H. Hamilton, Instructor in Economics, $I,ooo.
~Stuart M. Hamilton, Instructor in Commerce and Industry, $900.
~For one year, from October 1, 1911.
$From October 1, 1911.
iFor three years, from October 1, 1911.




236


APPENDIX.


~H. J. Drill, Reader in Economics, $500.
~Harry W. Crane, Reader in Economics, $200.
tJohn R. Brumm, Assistant Professor of Rhetoric, $I,6oo.
~Ernest P. Kuhl, Instructor in Rhetoric, $1,200.
~Frank G. Tompkins, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,200.
tCarey HI. Conley, Instructor in Rhetoric, $1,400.
~Roy W. Cowden, Instructor il Rhetoric, $I,Ioo.
~Marion C. Wier, Instructor in Rhetoric, $I,ooo.
~Clara B. Dunn, Assistanit in Rhetoric, $5'50.
~Edith A. Taylor, Assistant in Rhetoric, $300.
~Fannie B. Biggs, Assistant in Rhetoric, $300.
~Peter Okkelberg, Instructor in Zoology, $1,ooo.
~Frances J. Dunbar, Ass!istant in Zoology, $500.
~Horace B. Baker, Assistant in Zoology, $400.
~Emory Sink, Assistanit in Zoology, $400.
~Rudo'lph Glaser, Assistant in Zoology, $300.
~Orrin J. Wenzel, Assistant in Geology, $250.
~Eth.el M. Staley, Assistant in Geology, $I50.
~Ellwood Griest, Assistant in Zoology, $Ioo.
Department of Engineering.
tWilliam H. Butts, salary as Assistant Dean fixed at $500.
~Camilla B. Green, Clerk, salary fixed at $Soo.
~Frank C. Gibbs, Assistant to Secretary, $200.
tOtto C. MTarckwardt, Instructorl in English, $r,400.
~William D. Mioriarty, Instructor in English, $I,300.:William H. Wait, Junior Professor of MAlodern Languages, salary
fix-ed at $2,200.
tFrederick W. W'eck, Instructor in German, $I,400.
~Edmund Wild, Instructor in German, $1,200.
~Albert F. -Iurlburt, Instructor il French and Spanish, $1,200.
~Alfred O. Lee, Instructor in German, $1,300.
$Alexander Ziwet, Professor of Mathematics, salary fixed at $3,500.
-tWilliam V. N. Garretson, Instructor in Mathematics, $1,400.
tLouis A. Hopkins, Instructor in MIathematics, $I,400.
tVincent C. Poor, Instructor in Mathematics, $1,400.
-Theophil H. Hildebrandt, Instructor in Mathematics, $I,400.
tFrank R. Finch, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing,
$1,400.
~Daniel C. Miller, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing,
$I,30o.:tFiom October 1, 1911.
~-For three years, from October 1, 1911.
~For one year, from October 1, 1911.
~For one year, from July 1, 1911.




APPENDIX.


237


~Herbert L. Abbott, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, $I,200.
~Frank A. Kristal, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing,
$I,IOO.
~Raymond Everett, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing,
$I,200.
~Franklin ThSomas, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing,
$ I 200.
~Ferdinand N. Menefee, Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and
Drawing, $1,200.
~Harry A. Augenblick, listructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing, $i,ooo.
[[Harry C. Turner, Clerk in Engineering Shlops, $Soo.
IWilliam Roberts'on McDonald, Instructor in Forge Shop, $I,200.
[Henry Mann Cobb, Instructor in Machine Shop, $1,200.
TGeorge Garfield Bull, Instructor in Foundry, $I,I1O.
~TWilliam Henry Yeatman, Instructor in Wood Shop, $1,200.
f[John Huber Stevenson, Instrument Maker, $I,200.
~[Alonzo Siimmolns Berry, Instructor in Wood Shop, $I,ooo.
fTEmlory Mlorris Sweet, Instructor in Machine Shop, $I,ooo.
TWillliam Telfer, Instructor in Forge Shop, $I,Ioo.
tJohn Schmutz, Instructor in Surveying, $I,400.
~Hugh Brodie, Instructor in Surveying, $1,200.
~Clifton 0. Carey, Instructor in Surveying, $1,200.
~Albert R. Bailey, Instructor in Surveying, $I,roo.
tE'dward D. Rich, Assistant Professor of Civil Enigineering, $I,6oo.:I. Woldenberg, Junior Professor of Mechanical Engineering, $2,000.
t James A. M\oyer, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
$1,8co.
tStanislaus Zowski, Junior Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
$2,000.
tJohn E. Emswiler, As!sistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
$I,60o.
~William F. Verner, Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, $I,300.
tEdgcle T. Cope, 3d, Instructor in lMechanical Engineering, $1,400.
~George E. WaIlis, Instructor in Mechanical Engineering, $1,200.
tGeorge W. Patterson, Professor of Electrical Engineering, salary
fixed at $3,000.
~Alffred H. Lovell, Instructor inl Ellectrical Engineering, $I,200.
~Harry L. Tanner, Instructor in Electrical Engineering, $I,200.
~Alva B. Clark, Assistant in Electrical Engineering, $200.
~For one ytar, irom October 1, 1911.
oFor one year, from July 1, 1911.
I-For three years, from October 1, 1911..From October 1, 1911.




238


APPENDIX.


$Alfred H. Whi.te, Professor of Chemical Engineering, $2,500.
tElmer E. Ware, Instructor in Chemical Engineering, $1,400.
tEdward M. Bragg, Assistant Professor of Marine Engineering,
$I,8oo.
~William C. Titcomb, Instructor in, Architecture, $1,300.
Department of Mledicilne and Surgery.
[iMaude Forhan, Clerk and Assistant Secretary, $700.
~Rollo E. MloCotter, Instructor in Anatomy, $I,ooo.
~ M.atthew Kollig, Instructor in Anatomy, $8oo.
~William F. Koch, Instructor in Histology, $900.
tVictor C. Vaughan, salary as Professor and Dean fixed at $4,000.
tFrederick G. Novy, Professor of Bacteriology and Director of the
Hygienic Laboratory, salary fixed at $4,000.
~James G. Van Zwaluwenberg, Instructor in Internal MTedicine and
Demonstrator of Clinical Medicine, $I,200.
~Luther F. Warren, Instructor in Internal Medicine, $9o0.
~Mark Marshall, Instructor in. Therapeutics and M\ateria Medica,
$900.
~George B. Roth, Instructor in Pharmacology (also in School of
Pharmacy, total salary $900.), $700.
~Otis M. Cope, Instructor in Physiology (also in College of Dental
Surgery, total salary $9oo.), $6oo.
tCharles B. G. de Nancrede, Professor of Surgery and Director of
the Surgical Clinics, salary fixed at $3,500.
tAldred S. Warthin, Professor of Pathology, and Director of the
Pathological Laboratory, salary fixed at $3,500.
tG. Carl Huber, Professor of His;tology and Embryology, and Director of the Histological Laboratory, salary fixed at $4,000ooo.
fLLuella Bristol, Superintendent Nurses University Hospital, salary
fixed at $I,ooo.
fAnna E. Burlingame, Head Clerk University Hospital, salary fixed
at $800.
fWilliam  Hanselman, Head Orderly University Hospital, salary
fixed at $6o0.
f[Jay B. Draper, Superintendent University Hospital, salary fixed at
$2,200.
Chemical Laboratory.
tS. Lawrence Bigelow, Professor olf General and Physical Chemistry, salary fixed at $3,000.
tDavid M. Lichty, Assistant Professor of General Chemistry, $I,8oo.
tWilliam J. Hale, Assistant Professor of General Chemistry, $I,600.
tFrom October 1, 1911.
TFor three years, from Octoler 1, 1911.
iFor one year, from October 1, 1911.
[For one year, from July 1, 1911.




APPENDIX.


239


~Floyd E. Bartell, Instructor in General and Physical Chemistry,
$1,000.
~Robert J. Carney, Instructor in. Analytical Chemistry, $1,300.
~Harry W. Cole, Instructor in Analytical Chemistry, $1,300.
$Moses Gomberg, Professor of Organic Chemistry, salary fixed at
$3,500.
Department of Laew.
~James H. Brewster, Professor of Conveyancing, on leave, salary
fixed at $2,400.
tEdson R. Sunderland, Professor of Law, salary fixed at $4,000.
$Joseph H. Drake, Professor of Law, salary fixed at $4,000.
TEvans Holbrook, Professor of Law, salary fixed at $3,000.
~Gertrude E. Woodard, Assistant Law Librarian, salary fixed at
$I,300.
~Katherine C. Murray, Clerk, salary fixed at $8oo.
~Ingeborg Fredlund, Part-time Assistant in Law Library, salary
fixed at $300.
~Lawrence Maxwell, Lecturer on Legal Ethics, $300.
~John B. Clayberg, Lecturer on Mining Law and on Irrigation Law,
$500.
~Albert H. Walker, Lecturer on Patent Law and the Law of Trademarks, $400.
~Dallas Boudeman, Lecturer on Statute Law, $600.
~Edward S. Rogers, Lecturer on Copyright Law, $200.
~Clarence A. Lightner, Lecturer on Medical Jurisprudence, $350.
~George L. Canfield, Lecturer on Admiralty Law, $350.
School of Pharmacy.
~Kennetl W. Tracy, Instructor in Pharmacy, $I,ooo.
~Arthur F. Schlicting, Assistant in Pharmacy, $200.
~Charles H. Rogers, Assistant in Pharmacy, $200.
Homaeopathic Medical College.
tClaude A. Burrett, Assistant Professor and Registrar, $I,8oO.
~Ralph R. Mellon, Instructor in Physical Dliagnosis, and Director
of the Pathogenetic Laboratory, $I,ooo.
[Russell E. Atchison, Superintendient Homceopathic Hospital, salary
fixed at $1,430.
]'Mayme Audette, Clerk in 'Homceopathic Hospital, salary fixed at
$800.
[Genevieve Reed, Superintlendent Nurses Homceopathic Hospital,
$840.
lFor one year, from October 1, 1911.
tFrom October 1, 1911.
tTFor one year, from July 1, 1911.
i-For three years, from October 1, 1911.




240                      APPENIDIX.
College of Dental Strger'y.
~Robert B. Howell, Instructor in Comparative Anatomy and Crown
and Bridge Work, $I,200.
~Elmer L. Whitman, Instructor in! Prosthetic Technics, $1,200.
~ Milton T. Watsoon, Lecturer on Orthodontia, $400oo.
~Chalmlers J. Lyons, Lecturer on. Clinical Dentistry, $500.
~Herbert H. Harper, Lecturer on Clinical Dentistry, $00oo.
Other Dcpartlmenlts.
[E.lla F. Tobias, Assistant in Engineering Library, $750.
T[Ethel M. W'ight, Secretary to the Librarian, $750.
~lFranc P. Pattison, Charging, Clerk in General Library, $650.
AlTAanlda Belser, Order Clerk in General Library, $6oo.
f[Rachel Rhoades, Assistan.t in General Library, $500.
IErnest P. Lutz, Stack Clerk in General Library, $700.
~Catherine L. Bigelow, Director of Barbour Gymnasium, $1,500.
~Evelyn T. Dlerry, Assistant in Barbour Gymnlasiulm, $750.
~lMinnie S. George, Teacher of Swimming" in Barlbor Gymnasium,
$350.
tAlex. G. Ruthven, Assistant Professor of Zoology and Head Curator
of the M.nuseuim, $I,6oo.
TBEtta Van H-orn, Assistant in the Museum, $600.
TCrystal Thompson, Assistant in the Mtusclmtll, $5co.
[Norman A. Wood, Taxidermist il the Museum, $900.
~Carl A. Hanson, Assistant inl Waterman Gymnasiutm, $80o.
~WEdlin 0. Secord, Assistalnt in, Wateerman Gymnasium, $io0.
~E. R. Colwhell, Assistant in Watermlan Gymnasium, $Ioo.
fBetulaha B. Davis, Stenographer to President, $8oo.
RTRobert Grieve, Bookkeeper, $9oo.
~f-Helen Wardwell, Clerk inl Purchasing Departmllent, $700.
[Georgia 1. Jackson, Stenograpler to Secretary, $700.
fIsabel Kline, Assistant to Treasurer, $1,200.
IWVilliam  C. Holltands, Stuperintendent of Prinit ng  and Bin.dillg
Plants, $1,300.
[James H. Marks, Acting Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds,
$2,400.
[Caspar Navarre, Clerk of Buildings and Grounds Department, $700.
~For one year, from October 1, 1911.
~fFor one year, from July 1, 1911.
-'-For three years, from October 1, 1911.




SEPTEMBER MEETING
UN.I\VERSII?  O.ItC  IG.k,  }
A-\NN, AaRo)\, September 28, 1911.  \
'I'lle -Board met in the Regenlts' l.oomn at 10 o'clock
A. il. I       resent, Rengent 1 anchett, Regoent Grant, Regent
l-Bulklley, IRegent Clements, Regent IIulbbard, legent
)Ieal, IRe ent 1leland, and i Regoent S awyer-..\bsent
Sul)erintendent of -Publ)lic Instruc tion \\Vrigt.
)n motion of Regent IBulkley, the minutes of the
meeting of J-uly 20 w\ere approved wec\ith slight corrections.
()n motion of Reo-ent.I- ubil)ard the B1oa-rd voted that
extra compensation should not be allo\wed to Instruct1(l
John Schlmutz for worlk done in malckingli up a lmap ot tlle
Campus.
Re gent I llklley reported informally f(or the com()lnitte:
on1 the matter of lease (of the \Woodwartd     \\venue lot,
lwhich matter \was continuedl with the committee.
On   imotion of lReenit I eal, tle follo\winl  reconmendation of t         he Fac1ultv of the I)epartment of I,iterature, Science, and the Arts was adoplted as a rule of tlhe
oard(l:'I\'C ol/r'cd, That lno  credit be givcll ft(or lal)orato(.ry   courses
until  all  lalorato0r  du(es  are  paid, and   that  ill  all  casI s
where such credit is withheld a fine of o(ne dollar ($1:.o)
l)e iimposed blefore credit is given.
Regent I:ulkle  r epo)rtec the purchase of the so-called
MIlonroe lrol)ertv on Nort-h Ilngalls Street (ot o-f thle:General 1 tund.
()n mcIltion of Regent  ullklev, the followinl  1 es(olIti(.O) was adoptedl:\V:r-lA.xs. TIhe Rectst of the Uiiiversity of  ichi ga
lesire to  construct, foi- thle iecessaryl pltposes of- the iUnirsity, al t auditorit1u  1  building  it  a  snitableC lc)cationi  adjacent to the Caimpis, and said Rcgents do niot hol(l title t(




242


S'EP1TEM 4BER /MEETING, 1911.


sufficient real estate sko located, but need to acquire real
estate for the site of said building, and the following (lescribed property in the City of Ann Arbor has been selected
as the most available site for such purpose:
Lots 6, 7, 8, 9, IO, and i  in Bl ock 2' South, Range tI
East, in the Eastern Addition;
the Regents now owning all of said property, except lot 0,
in Block 2 South, Rang I   East, in the Eastern Additionl;
and,
WI-IMR^As, The Regents have endeavcored to purchase
said lot from the own.ers thereof, but are unable to do so
at a price at all commensurate with its value;
Now, Therefore, it is Resolved, That the taking of the
above described property be, and it is hereby declared necessary for the public use of said University; that the Attorney General of the State of Mlichigan, be requested to institute the legal proceedings providedhby law to condemn sai(l
property; and that the Secretary of the Regents of the
University of Michigan be, and he is hereby authorized and
directed to sign, and verify, in behalf of the Regents of the
University of NMichigan, the petition for the condemlnation
of said property and all other papers necessary or proper in
the conduct of said condemnation proceedings.
Regent Sawyer presented the following resolutions
passed at a meeting of the Senate Council held Monday,
May 23, and on Regeent Sawyer's motion, these resolu 
tions.were adopted as expressingo the sense of the 'Board
of lRegents:Resolved, That it be declared the sense of this Council
that in the conferring of honorary degrees upon the g.raluates of this University, such degrees be preferably confined
to those graduates who belong to classes holding their fiveyear reunions at the Commencement at wich the degree is
to be conlferred.
Resolved, That it is the sense of this Council that holnorary degrees should not be conferred by the University
upon members of the University faculties.
On mltion o(f Riieent Grant, following' the reconm.
imendationf      e   aclt o   f t he lty of te lDepartment of law,l the
Bloard conferred tlhe degr-ee of LIL..I as of the class of
1894 uplon Jtudlge Albert Eug'ene McCabe.




SLPTEMB1ER JLMEETING, 191 1.


243


The President presented correspondence fron Carl i.
Schmidt, of I)etroit, and Professor Alfred H. \White, ill
which Mr. Schmidt tendered a fellowship to the University in accordance with the following memorandum:\:lr. Carl E. Schmidt proposes 'to establish at the University of Michigan a fellowship to be known as the Carl
Schmidt Fellowship under the following conditions.
I. AMr. Schmidt agrees to pay to the Treasurer of the
University of Michigan $I,ooo. to be used in the establishment of a fellowship in the science and art of tanning, $6oo.
of this sum *to go to, the holder of the fellowship and $400oo.
to go for such equipment and apparatus as necessary.
2. The holder of the fellowship shall be nominated by
the President of the University and the'Standing Committee
of the department of Chemistry after consultation with the
donor. He shall put at least two-thirds of his time on his
research work under the direction of 'a member of the
chemical faculty.
On motion of Reg-ent Sawy er, this fellowshipi        was
— ratefully accepted and the President was asked to express the thanks of the Board to the donor.
'The President presented a letter from       Mr. Josephl
abaadie, of Detroit, relative to the possibility of the
acquirement by the University of Mr. Labadie's collection of socialist literature.  On motion of Reogent Sawyer, the matter was placed in the hands of the President,
with power.
On motion of Regent i:lanchett, 1Mr. \\'Walter 13. MAcDougall wAas appointed to the Emma J. Cole Fellowship in
Botany for the University year 1911-1912.
The President presented the following letter from
Miss Fannie Fisher, and on motion of Regent Beal, these
pictures were accepted with -the thanks of the Bloard to
the donor:
ANN ARBOR, August II, 1911.
President -HuTCHINS:
Dear Sir:-It is with pleasure that I offer as a free gift
to the University of Michigan four oil paintings which were
loaned some years ago to the University by my mother, and
were at that time hung in the picture gallery of the Library.




244


I  A  A  i     I  A
S.1-,_PjE'AjBE;R           ]oil.


'Three of these pictures are copies, the stubjects beilng
"Peter Maityr" by Ti'tian, 'The Crucifixion" aud "Mliracle of
St. Alark" by Tinttot-tto, clone Irom tihe originals ill Italy lv
my uncle, John Kenrick Fisher, a native of \assaclhusetts,
)lut residing imany years in Nsew' York City, \where he died
ill I873. The fourth picture, "The Enltoiicbment (f Christ,"
is ai1 original coimposition by th e same artist.
I 1have the pertmission of the other imembers of the fallily to offer these pictures to the UIiversity, and have tle
hope that those in atthority will think best to accept the
offer.                Very respectfully yours,
(Miss) FANNIL,; FISmLi;.
'IThe P1resident transmitted a letter from   Professor
HIenry C. Adams recording the receipt of a check from
Col. Frank J. i —ecker, of 1Detroit, for $500., contributed
toward the expenses of the '   uransportation course dullril,
the year 1911-1912.   On motion of Regent Sawsyer, this
gift was accepted with the thanks of the 1Board.
On motion of Regoent G-rant, folloiwing the recommendation of Professor Adams, Mlr. -. Manutltel Fox alid
MAr. (George A. Clark w.ere appointed as Fellows in Transportation for the year 1911-1.91.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the recomllmendation of the Facullty of the lDepartment of MAedicine
and Surgery, tile degree of Doctor of Medicine -was conferred upon EIadward -II ayes Kelly as of the class of 1911.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Mr. Gerharld Ilnll-manuel Thruln wAas applointed Technical Assistant in Pathology in place of Mr. 11. N. Kerns, resig(ned, at the salary
of $600., as provided in the budget.
On motion of lRegent Sawyer, Dr..llen l ivin1sttn)
Richardson was appointed Demonstrator of Anaesthesia
at the University Hospital at the salary of $500., with
bloard and room in the hospital. 'lThis appointment w\as
authorized at the nmeeting of July 20 and adds the sum of
$500. to the btudget. Thie appointmenlt is for one year, cn 
the twelve months basis, from September 1, 1911.
A letter was presented froin Deall Cooley transmitting1  a letter from I r-ofessor A. tI. 'White, stating that tlhe
Mlichlioan Gas Association at its imeetingl leldl in Detroit
0on Septem:ber 20 hlad \oted to increase its support of




'SE};JP....  R M1 J   E  I'G, z19   2 4.


245


research work at the 'IJlniversity 1b authoriziing tle estallishment of an additional fellowship in Gas Eng'ineering
for the coming- year. 'The holder of this fellowship will
receive $300. for the colleg-iate year and will be allow-ed,
to pursue minor work toward a 'l aster's (lenree, with the
expectation that he will remain two years andi in his
secon(ld year -will hold the fellow ship at $500.
)n motion of Reg-ent Grant, Mr. John Wilson llacker
was appointed as the holder of the $500. Gas lng-ineeringl
Fellowship for the vear 1911-1912.
(n motion of lReoentt Grant, the followillg alppointnents -were made in the I)epartment of Engineering:Mr. Albert E. White, A.B., Instructor in Chemical Ilngineering for the year 191 I-192 at the salary of $1,400., vice
K. W. Zimmerschied on leave.
AM1r. Bertrandl Grunwald, ip. Ing., Instructor in Chemical Engineering for the year-: 91 1-g191 ahe he salary of $r,200.
Mr. George \L. -MlcConkey, Instructor in Architecture
for the year 1911-I912 at the salary of $i,ooo.
Mr. Harold F. French, C.1'., Instructor in lngineering
M:echanics for the year 1911-19I2 at the salary of $1,200., to
take the work left by Assistant Professor John I1. (riffith,
resigned.
Notice was also given that the resigtnation 4of Instructor Schoch in Modern,allnguages had been tendered; tlhat
Instructor Augtenblick in the Drawino dlepartmentt hal
requested permission to resion, and that Junior Professor
\Woldenberg for the present at least did not accept the
l)osition tendered him.
On motion of Regoent Sawyer, the resi-gnation (of Milr.
K1.enneth AV. T'lracyV as.Insti-luctor in Plharmacy  was
accepted, and on motion of Regent Grant, \Vinield S
l:uI l)bard, Ph.D., las appo'inted Instructor in 'Pharmacy
to succeed Mr. 'Tracv f)o the year 1911-1912 at the same
salary.
'lhe President lpresented the folloTwinll letter of resi( —
nation from  Professor Otis C(. Johnson, which \vas, o(l
motion of IRegenltt Savwyer, accepted with regret, andl
Professor Jchnson wvas applinted Professor 'Emeritist of
Qualitative \nalvsis:



246


SE2'4' lLPTEMBLER M EETI'lNG\, ii yi.


ANN ARBOR, September 26, 191 1.
I —. B. HUTCHINS,
President of the Board of Regents.
I hereby present my resignation as Professor of Qualitative Analysis. I thank the Board for the lmany favors
granted during my long period of service.
I now hope to complete the research work that I planned
for many years but was too busy to give my time to it.
This resignaltion is presented conditionally, tlhe condition
being that my application to the Carnegie Foundation for a
retiring allowance is granted by said Foundation.
Respectfully submitted,
OTIS C. JOHNSON.
'The President stated that the Graduate School requested that the so-called Palmer Field fee for women
should -be applicable only to undergraduate women. On
motion of Regent Grant, this request was referred, with
power, to the Committee on the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
The President presented a request for a loan of $150.
to Miss Isabella M. B:lack from the Scholarship Fund of
the Class of 1894. On motion of Regent Grant, this loan
was authorized, the Treasurer to take such obligati(ons as
may be deeemed proper, with interest at 55o.
On motion of Reoent Clements, Professor 1Herbert 1.
Coulding was appointed Secretary of the Department of
Engineering for the year 1911-1912 at the salary of $500.,
vice Assistant Professor Bird on leave.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following degree
was conferred, as recommended by the School of Pharmacy:
Hlans Gessell, Ph.G., Bachelor of Science (in Pharmacy).
Regent Leland reported the reason why certain bonds
earlier authorized to be purchased as an investment for
University trust funds (see page 149) had not been purchased. H-e recommended that to provide for the present
uninvested balance of University trust funds the Board
should purchase $15,000. of Marshall County, Minnesota.
5%  Ditch Bonds due in 1925 and $15,000. of the same
bonds due in 1926, at par and matured interest, and




-4 1                         19 -1-T.,S`EPTJ ' 11 B 11'R  -1 -bid"]'] IV G j


247


$10,000. City of Waco, Texas, 5% Thirty-year School and
Sewer Bonds maturing July 1, 1941, at 107 flat.
On motion, the purchase as above recommended was
authorized, the Treasurer aind Secretary to conclude the
details.
)On motion, the Board took a recess till 2 p.:in.
AFT'ERNOON SESSION
On reassembling, the same members being present as
at the morning session, Regent B1ulkley made an informal
report on the progress of the contest against the Octavia
I-ates wIill.
Regent Bulkley called attention to the fact that tht
year 1912 would mark the seventy-fifth anniversary of the
Univ\ersity's foundation, and on his motion, the lBoard
adopted the followiino resolution:VWIERI\S, The year 1912 is the seventy-fifth anniversary
of' the foundation of the University of Mlichigan, therefore
be it
Resolved, That the President of the University be requested to ask the University Senate, the Alumni Association, and the Michigan Union to co-operatte with the Regents
in developing plans for a proper celebration of the Diamond
Jubilee of the University.
The President presented the request of I-rofessor
[ —enry C. Adams for an appropriation of $400. to provide
for the salary of a reader in the department of Economics
for the year 1911-1912. On motion of Regent Leland, this
sulm wTas added to the budget, and Mr. F. C. Blernard was
appointed to the position for the year.
Regent Leland presented a report of MIr. D. \W.
Springer, Certified Public Accountant, stating that he lhadl
examlined the books and vouchers kept by former Treasurer George S. Baker relative to the gift funds for the
fiscal year ending- July 1, 1911, and found the same to be
correct and in accordance withl the annulal report filel
by Mr. Baker. I-Ie further reported that ch-anges had
been made in the books at the University hospitals in
accordance with the direction of the Regents at tle May
meeting.  (See page 149.) 'lhe accountant also recom



248


SEP 4E 1 I T   BEB  I   i  1, E I I A (1, I () I.


mended, as an improvement on the present practice at the
hospitals, that all bills for laundry and transportation for
latients whlose bills are a public charge should be votuchered through the office and these amounts should be added
to the hospitals' budgets. Tlhis change in the method o(
book-keepiing was approved and directed 1by the 1oard
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board autlorize(l
the purchase of the adding machine which had been in use
at the University H-lospital, the sum  of $238.87 being
added to the budget for that purpose.
IMr. Springer recommended also certain changes in the
accounting processes of the dental clinic and laboratories
Thle forms and plans, which had been submitted to thel
Dental Faculty and approved by them      before recoinmendation by Mr. Springer, include the follo\\wing:I. A duplicated order for each patient, indicating the
kind and amount of work to be done. This will le nmade
out by the instructor.
2. A duplicated combination requisition and bill for all
material needed. This will be made out by the student.
3. WVhien the work is completCed, a final 0.1. K  y the
instructor.
4. Both hill 'and dluplicatc reIceipted by a slip printing
cash register.
5. A smallel cash register for recording cash sales in
the basement laboratory.
On motion of:Regent Lelanld, nnot to exceed $425. was
added to the budclet of the College of IDental Surglery for
the purchase of two cash registers specified and $75. for
extra printing' involved in this chang e of the accountinlo
systelm.
On Imotion of Regent Lelanid, the Iluildings ani(l
(rounds Commllittee was asked to investigate andtireport
to the Board ton the matter of additional or improvedl
vault facilities for the offices of the 'Treasurer and Secretary.
On motion of ]Rege'lnt Sawyer, the salary of the storekeeper, Mr. Leslie WV. I-Harris, at the University 1]-ospital
was fixed at $55. per month instead of $50., as shown on
page 224 of the Proceedings.




SEPT'1E /1BER 11i1TAG 1M 9 i1,.


249


O)n motion of Regent (:rant, following the request of
the Dean of the Department of Law, a sum not to exceed
$300. for meeting the traveling expenses of special lecturers in the DFepartment of Law was appropriated. T'his
fund is to be admlinistered under the direction of the
Dean of the D)epartment and lRegents Colmmittee on the
I)epartment.
(0n motion of Regent lheal, the followinig appointmeints wvere authorized:Mr. Whiting  Alden, Instlruct-or in  Silviculllt11e  fo(- tlhe
yrear 1.911-1912  at $1,300.
Mr. Lteigh Jarvis Youtng, InstructorI in Silviculture ftor
the year 1911 —1912 at $1,300.
lOn motion of Reo-ent   eal, Dr.. M.. (arrett \vas
appointed Instructor in I-listory at $1,200.. to take the
work of 1\Mr. Francis il:acon, resigned.
On motion of Regent.Bullley, an addition of $100.
was made to the elquipment budgcet of the A5Muselum to
i)rovride cases and shelves for th'e new  accessions.of
insects.
On motion of R egent HI-lanchett, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the I [omcepathic Medical
College, the degree of Doctor of M\edicine was conflerred
upon Robert Craig Boowie.
On nllotion of Rlegent Sawyer, $240. \\as aclded to the
ludlget of the (lepartmnent of Otolarynvgology for the lprovision of steno-graphic services.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, certificates of gradulation from the University IlIospital Training School fo,
Nurses wAere granted to thle following:
Clara Anna lohn
1,illian  Sophia Arft
Clara A. Bender
(race Adelle Baten.an
llizahbethl \. Kearney
Mlary rMay Cooper
Ruth A. MIclntyre
Pansy Lee Homan
Matilda A. Wriglht




250


S1 1T,'! MBEl R i TNGl l I'N, i_ 1.


(On motion of iR.e'cent Sawyer, the 3luilding's and
(Groulnds Conmmittee \was recuested to lprovid(e a surgeon's
sink for the lar-e operating room at a cost not to exceed.i250., fully installedt, lhich sum was added to the budg-et.
()n motion of Recent Sawyer, the printilng of one
thousand copies of the annual hospital report was authorized, the same to be charged against the hospital l)udget.
(n )motion of Regent Clements, thle Plurlhasing
I)epartment was authorized to make contract for the University's electric lalmp supply for 1911-1912, in accord —
ance with a commulnication from the Secretary.
On motion of VRe-ent BLeal, the following were
app)ointed Assistants in Mineraloy, the positions hla il
oeen provided in the budget:George B. Corless, A.B., salary $200o.
J. P. Goldsberry, salary $200.
Lynn1 J. Yominge, salary $200oo.
()n motion of Regent Bleal, Mrl. Fred 1. \ahr- was
appointed as University Fellow for the year 1911-1912
with the stipend of $300., to succeed /Mr. R.. I{I. Dangerfield, resigned.
On. motion of liegent lBeal, Mr. Roy Kenneth Mic-.
Alpine was appointed Instructor in Analytical Chemistry
for the year 1911-1912 at the salary of $900., already )provided in the budget.
Regent Beal presented a communication from Directoi
Campbell suggesting changes in the Chemical Laboratory
l)ased on the withdrawal of Professor Johnson.   ()O1
motion of Regent Beal, Instructor Ilobart -I-. W\illard
was promoted to be Assistant Professor of Analytical
Chemistry at the salary of $1,600. per year, to take effect
October 1, 1911  Dr. AWillard is to hav\e general chargc-(
of the work in Qualitative Analysis. Lucien l1-. Gr-eathouse was appointed T'eaching- Assistant in (2uantitativc
Analysis at the salary of $400.
On lReoent )eal's motion, 'rofessor Camlpbell was
authorized to recommend'to the l'oard an instlructor ill
A nalytical. C h em ist ry.
A comlmunlication from the Secretary transmitting, the




S'EPT E1MBE i MEET i;ING, 91 5.


251


finding of the Budget Committee with regard to the
libraries of the University, was presented for formal
approval. The Library Budget for the present year is to
be as follows:General Library salaries..................$25,970.
General Library Contingent............... 2,500.
General Library Book Fund.............. I6,ooo.
Engineering Library Book Fund......... 3,000.
Medical Library Book Fund...............  3,500.
Law Library Book Fund..................  3,ooo.
I-omceopathic Library Book Fund..........  250.
Dental Library Book Fund................  250.
Th'le Secretary presented correspondence relative to
the University's fuel contract, between the Pocahontas
Fuel Co., of Cincinnati, Ohio, and the Secretary's office.
After consideration, the Regents declined to take further
action with reference to this coal contract.
On motion of Regent Leland, the sum of $207., representing the net proceeds of a fee charged students in the
department of Anatomy for the use of osteological collections, was added to the budget as "The Osteological
Fee Fund," to be expended for the benefit of the osteological collections.
On motion, the budget was reduced by the sum of $40..
an amount allowed the University engineering shops for
janitor supplies.  These supplies are now furnished out
of a general janitor supplies account.
Regent Beal called attention of the Board to the fact
that Mr. W\illiam Arnold, of this city, had presented an
office clock to the Biological Station, and on Regent Beal's
motion, the thanks of the Board wAere extended to Mr.
Arnold for his gift.
PRegoent Beal presented the following list of appointments by the Secretary to positions already provided for
in the budl-et, wrhicll appointments were, on 1motion, coniirrned by the TBoard: —
AMr. L. E. Butterfield, A.B., Assistant in Oratory for
tle year 1911-1912, at $200.:Mr. Chester HI-. Forsyth, Assistant in Mathematics in
the Literary Departmcnlt for the year T9rT-19g2, vice V. J.
Montgomery, at $30o.




252,S22TH['IbI  i I/EE?'/A l G, p  I..\Mr. Johni 1:-. ]hllers., as Assist at in Botallny (lu1rill the
summer session of 191 - 1912' vice Roy S. I:Ieadl at $30. for
the session.
MAr. Glenn F. Cullen, First Assistant in Qtlalitative
Chemistry in the Chemical alaboratory for the year 191 r1912, at $200.
Mlr. Newton Lam), First Assistant in Qualitative Chemnistry ill the Chemical Laboratory for the year 1911-1912,
at $1oo.
\Mr. George Aiillarld AMaxwell, First Assistant ii Qulalitative Chemistry in the' Chemical Labolratory for tlhe year
1911-T912, at $100.
1. H1. J. Cutler, First Assistant il Qualitativ  Chenistry in the ChelCical Laboratory for the year- 1911-1912, at
$100.
Mr. r. J. tHubbard, First Assistant in OQualitative
Chemistry in the Chemical Laboratory for the year 19:1 -1912, at $100o.
Mr. Vernon HI-alliday, First Assistant in   ualitati ve
Chemistry in the Chemiccal Labloratotryi for the year 191 1 -19r2, at $100.
Mr. F. WV. Granuptner, First Assistant in  Qualitative
Chemlistry in the Chemical Ihaboratory for the 'year -1911 -1912, at $1oo00..\Mr. J. S. Brown, Laboratory Assistant in tlhe Chemical
Iaboratory for the year 191- 1912, aIt $50.
(n motion of Regent,elianld, tle lloard( authorized
the return of the summler session fees of M\Iiss (Georgia V',
3 ackson.
O1n motion of Regent Ieland, the suml o(f $150\ was
added to the ludget to provide for stenogriaphic services
for tlhe School of 'harmlacy. 'hil-is custlllary approplriation was overlooked in makingt up tile budclet.
'Ihe.following colnlltunication fromi the 1-aculty otf tlhle
Department o(f AMedicine and Surt —erv was received, liut
n11 action \as t aken at tills time ---
'I'o tlie lonorable loard l   of Regents:Your atte tio; is invited to the follo wing, for consideration if possiile at your meetilng called for Septelmber
28, 1911.
Rcsohlcd. That the Faculty of the Department of \Medicine and Surgery ask that the Board of Regents co-operate




&P'TL'1 1I _  Pt L \7 11 NG,.I1.


2553


with the Medical Alumni for the preservation of the east
portion of the Old MIedical Building, and its restoration.in
such form that it can be used for a mIedical Ilmuseluml anll
library.
Further, That il the event of such rest)orationl blilng
considlered possible, it is respectfully requtested that the old
frame buildings now occupied by the department of Surveying- le removed, inasmuch as they constitute a serious
menace of fire not only to the old building, but to that
portion of the campus buildings.
Resol'ed. That the Faculty of the Departient cof Medicine and Sturgery ask the Board of Regents that the >grolund
occupied by the Old MAedical Building and the old anatomical laboratory '(now removed and its, place occupied by
the old frame hospitals used by thle department of Surveying) be kept for the MNedical Department, to be used to
meet- the n'eed whiichl must soon arise for a separate building for the medical library.
Respectfully sutbmit ted,
War. F. B:LArlIl,,:
Chairman, Commiittee o)n Old \Mledical B1uilding.1
C. G. D)Am\N:,
R JiUi,N Pj,'t'lRSo N,
A. S. N\V TixriiN
Commlittee.
Rlegent I'eal presented the following' communiilication
from the Secretary, and on motio)n tlhe app)oinltmients were
confirmed:
To the lHonorable Board of Regents:Your atteintion is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for Septelmber 2S,
1911.
The following appointmlents of assistants in the department of Botany are transmitted to the Board for approval
and record. Professor Newcombe requested the same number of assistants at the same total salary, though the salaries
are slightly rearranged. -All the appointments are for the
University year 1:91-191, tllhe title being Assistant in Botany.
Elizabeth D. WVuist, M.S., salary $400.
Frank C. Gates, \A.l., salary $400o.
George L. Keenilan   II,., salary $300.
Arthur Kochler, VA.B., salary $300.




254


2S'PT  MBLER MEE 12TIN;G, II9 r.


Bert E. Quick, A.B., salary $3co.
Richard A. Gantz, salary $200.
Charles J. Kraebel, salary $200.
Alfred 'H. Povah, salary $0co..
Respectfully submitted,
S. W. SMINn,
Secretary.
September 19, I9II.
On motion of Regent LeIland, the payment of the following paving' tax was authorized, in accordance with tihe
action of the Regents at the 1 une meetino, 1910, pagce 7/8.
September 18, I911.
University. of Michigan
To the City of Ann Arbor, Dr.
To paving tax on Twelfth St. on the following property:
B.einning alt the N. W. corner of N. University
Ave. and Twelfth St., W. 112 ft., N. to S. line of
lot Ii, B. 2 S. R. 12 E., B. to Twelfth St., S'ly
to beginning, part of B. 2, S. R. I2 E., Eastern
Addition....................................$3.62
Treasurer's commission......................,.56
$312.I8
I hereby certify that the above bill is correct to tihe best
of my knowledge.                 S.. BaA IES,
City Assessor.
On motion of eRegent Leland, an increase of $50. in the
salary of the clerk of the Department of Buildings and
Grounds was authorized, at the discretion of the Superintendent, to make no increase in the budget.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Medical
College, the degree of D octor of MVedicine was conferred
lponl John    Harold   Alexander and      Frank   Benjamin
M-acMullen.
Regent Bullkley presented the followini     conmininication from Mr. Theodore AW. Koclh, President of the Ann
Arbor Art Association:1'o t the Ionorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for September 28,
I9II.




S'EP'TEJI+1BE.R 1MTEEiN G, - I.1-9J.


255


On behalf of the Ann Arbor Art Association 1 h.eg
leave to ask permission to hold two loan exhibitions of
modern art in the large gallery inl Memorial 'lall during
the coming academic year, the exact time and length of
such exhibitions to be determined by conference writh the
Curator of the Art Gallery.
As the Art Association is dependent upon inembershlip
fees of fifty cents per year and the income is insufficient to
meet our needs, we should like to have the privilege of
charging non-members a small entrance fee, perhaps as low
as ten cents, to h.elp defray the expenses of packing, insurance and transportation. Precedent for such au arrangement could be found in the privileges accorded the local
University Musical Society, and, to take an illustration
from a sister state institution, in the privileges allowed the
Art Association of Columbia, Mo., bhi the University of Missouri, both of which organizations are maintained by entrance fees. As dates are now being- arrangted for by the
art associations throughout the country it will be necessary
for us to- get our applications in without delay.
Respectfully submitted,
T1r-HODORI; W. KOCH,
President, Ann Arbor Art Associatioi.
01n motion this request was granted, but without all
responsibility  on the part of the      Board for property
brought into the building'.
Regent Beal presented the following commliunication
fromi Professor Whitney, and on motion, the request \vas
granted:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your'meeting called for September 28,
19TI.
In the annual budget the departmlent of Elducation was
grautted $1oo. for- no-resident lecturers. 1 would recolnmend that not to exceed $o5. of this amount be utilized to
plurchase a cabinet for use of this department. We have
been presented with consideLrable apparatus for teslting backwardl childlC ren and hlave no suitable place to preserve it.
A. S. ~VH1TTNIFtV.
September 20, 9i.




256


5'56  8I7'7$MBLR' ilEIA,'i:1G, 1911.


On motion of Regent Beal, the salary of Miss Evelyn
II ardinghaus as Clerk of the Appointment Committee was
increased to $600., to take effect (ctoler 1.
Regent Sawvyert presented tle following comllllnication:''To the Honorablte Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for SeptelCmber 2S
J9   I.
The Michigan Association for the Prevention and Relief
of Tuberculosis will hold its regular annual convention in
Aun1 Arbor, November 3, 191. In 9i1o the Board of Regents'of the University of Michigan appropriated $25. for a
tea to be served in the afternoon to the delegates )present
at the 1910 convention. This year the Association wishes
to hold all all-day session, serving luncheon at the noon
hour to all the delegates, and respectfully requests that $25.
be appropriated this year by the Regents to decfray the
expense of this luincheon.
A. S. VARTH'l'N, President.
(Per V.)
CAROt, F. W\I\,I'ON, Secretary.
September 20, 191 i.
On motion of Reg'ent Sawyer, the request for this
appropriation of $25. was,ranted with authority from
the Board to purchase, out of the $25. appropriated, no'
to exceed $4. worth of cut flowers.
Regent Leland took the floor and made a brief statement of conditions at the University, and moved that the
salary of the President should be fixed at $8,500. per year,
begoinnin, October 1, 1911.     This motion was put by
Regent Grant and unanimously'carried on a call vote.
All the above actions were )b unanimous vote 1unless
otherwise stated.
()n motion, the Bloard adjolurned to October 26.
SH   RLll Y \V. SMITH,
Secretary.




OCTOBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF IMICHIGAN, 
ANN ARBOR, October 26, 1911. 1
The Board met in the Regents' Room at 10 o'clock
A. M. Present, Regent Hanchett, Regent Grant, Regent
Clements, Regent Hubbard, Regent Sawyer, Regent
Beal, and Regent Leland.      Absent, Regent Bulkley and
Superintendent Wright.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the
last meeting were approved with slight changes on pages
244 and 246.
The President presented the report of the committee
to which the subject of a plan for University extension
work had been referred, the committee's report being as
follows:The Committee begs to make the     following recommendations with respect to the use to which the appropriation of $Io,ooo. for the purpose of University Extension
shall be put.
(I) That the President and the Deans of the Departments shall constitute a committee to choose the various
lecturers and to approve the subjects upon which they shall
lecture.
(2) That the administrative work necessary for arranging the program shall be carried on under the general
direction of this committee and under the direct authority
of the President.
(3) That the expenditure of $I,ooo. from the $Io,ooo.
set aside be allowed for clerk hire and incidental expense.
(4) That the fee allowed the lecturer shall be $20. per
lecture, with actual traveling expenses from Ann Arbor and
return. The society or organization under whose auspices
the lecture is given should be asked to bear only the local
expenses.




258


OCTOBER MEETING, I9rn.


(5) That in arranging the program the committee
should endeavor to reach as many of the people of the state
as possible with the facilities at command.
It is believed that under the above arrangement the
average expense per lecture, aside from administrative expense, such as clerk hire and postage, wil not exceed $30.,
and that approximately thrce hund(red lectures can be furnished to the people of the state during the year.
Respectfully submitted,
JUNIUS E. B]EAL,
WA'TER I-I. S.AWVYtR,
H. B. HUTCHINS.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the above report was
accepted and adopted. The action therein recommended
was authorized and the expenditures were allowed.
Superintendent Wright took his seat.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board expressed its
thanks to the M\ichigan State Gas Association for its provision of a second fellowship in Gas Analysis.
Regent Beal reported in the matter of the Palmer
Field fee and recommended that the fee for the use of the
Field should not be exacted of women enrolled in the
Graduate School.
On motion of Regent Leland, the above report was
adopted as the rule of the Board.
The President presented the following communication from the Secretary of the University Senate: ---
ANN ARBOR, October 26, I9II.
President HARRY B. HUTCHINS, LL.D.,
University of Michigan.
Dear Sir:-I beg to submit herewith an extract from
the minutes of the meeting of the University Senate held
October 23, I91I:"The President then presented the following resolution
of the Board of Regents regarding the celebration of the
Diamond Jubilee, and the subject was considered as a
special order:"'WHEREIAS, The year 1912 is the seventy-fifth anniversary of the foundation of the University of MNichigan,
therefore be it




OCTOBER MEETING, 1911.                     259
"'Resolved, That the President of the University be requested to ask the University Senate, the Alumni Association, and the Michigan Union, to co-operate with the Regents
in developing plans for a proper celebration of the Diamond
Jubilee of the University.'
"A motion was made and carried that the Senate accept
the invitation of the Board of Regents to co-operate in the
celebration.  On motion the President was authorized to
appoint a committee of seven to consider the matter and
confer with the Board.
"It was moved and carried that it is the suggestion of
the Senate that the celebration be held not prior to Commencement 1913 and in connection with the opening of the
Hill Memorial Auditorium if it be ready at that timle."
Very respectfully yours,
ARTHUR G. HALL,
Secretary of the Senate.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board autholrized
a committee of two Regents to confer with the other
bodies interested in the matter of the Diamond Jubilee
of the University.
The President thereupon appointed Regent Bulkley
and Regent Beal as such committee of confer-ence.
The President presented the following communlcation from  Treasurer R. A. Campbell:ANN ARBOR, October 26, I9II.
Honorable H. B. HUTCHINS, President:
I herewith submit report of loss by burglary of University vault on the morning of October II:
Currency.................... $420.CO
Gold coin................        40.00
Nickels and pennies..............  IO.o
Checks......................  309.53
Total........................$779.53
We have been able to trace the makers of checks
amounting to about $oo0., for which we will receive duplicates in course of time, and expect to reduce the loss this




260


OCTOBER JIiEETING, I91I.


amount. A systematic search is now being made by the
hospital authorities from whom the checks were received to
endeavor to locate the makers of other checks, but owing:to the system of keeping record of checks received at the
hospital, there is little chance of being successful.
The safe is an entire loss and we will not be able to
use it for the keeping of funds in the future. I trust that
some action wil be taken whereby a new safe will be provided for 'the use of the Treasurer as soon as convenient.
Very truly yours,
R. A. CAMNPBELL,
Treasurer.
Regent Leland presented       the following    resolution,
which was adopted on a call vote:Inasmuch as Treasurer Campbell exercised every precaution to protect the University's funds against robbery,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That he be reimbursed in the amount of the
cash lost in the robbery of October I, and also that he
be reimbursed' in the amount of the loss in checks, as finally
determined, to a total for both items not in excess of $779.53.
Regent Clements moved the following resolution:Resolved, That the Purchasing Agent be instructed to
purchase for the Treasurer's office a burglar-proof money
chest, with a time lock, at not to exceed coslt of $50oo.
Regent Grant moved to amend by including the chairman of the Buildings and Grounds Committee to act with
the Purchasing Agent.       The amendment was accepted
and the motion as amended then passed.
Regent Clements reported informally at some length
in the matter of the proposed Hill Memorial Auditorium
and presented the various bids received in response to
the advertisements.
Regent Clements also reported informally with regard
to the plans prepared for the power plant.
After discussion, on his motion, the following resolution was adopted:



OCTOBER MEETING, 1911.


26I


Resolved, That the Finance Committee, with the Building ICommittee, be authorized to consider bids on the Power
Plant job and to determine upon the successful bidders; and,
after the award by such committee, the University officers
are instructed to make proper contracts.
Regent Sawyer reported the request of the city health
officer to place a patient suffering with cerebro-spinal
meningitis in the University Hospital detention ward.
Regent Sawyer called attention to the fact that other
contagious diseases were in the city and likely to appear
at the University Hospital, and thus to create a necessity
for the use of the pest house by hospital patients. In
view of these considerations, the Board regarded itself as
unable to grant the request of the city health officer.
Regent Sawyer moved the re-adoption of the following resolution as originally passed at the meeting of
November 18, 1910. (See page 12.)
Resolved, On condition that the city of Ann Arbor will
furnish $25,000. for the purpose of building a contagious disease hoispital, the University of Michigan will furnish a site
for the same and agrees to equip and maintain it after completion. Such hospital shall be for the sole use of patients
taken sick of contagious diseases in the city of Ann Arbor,
and such hospital shall be conducted under such condition's
as shall be arranged between the city of Ann Arbor and the
Board of Regents.
The resolution was again adopted.
Regent Beal reported progress made by his committee in the matter of the lease of the Woodward Ave. lot.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board approved
the traveling expense voucher of Regent Hubbard for
$43.75 and $50.35, for the months of January and March,
1911, respectively.
Regent Hanchett reported that in accordance with
the authority given him at the meeting of the Regents
held June 27, he had authorized certain repairs at the
Homceopathic Hospital, and had also authorized the purchase of the following items of furniture and equipment
to a total of $425.75:



262


OCTOBER MEETING, I911.


One dozen common chairs........................$ 12.00
Repairing one surgical table.......................  o.o00
Four new surgical tables at $34. each.............. I36.00
One modern food carrier.........................  50.00
Eighteen bedside rugs for Nurses' Home at $2.75... 49.50
Two bedside stands at $3..........................  6.oo
Two invalid's chairs-wheel chairs-at $25. each.... 50.00
Twelve rocking chairs at $3. each.................. 36.00
Supplementary list:
Seven bedside rugs at $2.75 each................ 19.25
One extra food carrier.......................... 45.00
Four bedside stands at $3. each...................  I2.00
On motion of Regent Hanchett, these expenditures
were approved and the amount added to the budget.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, $300. was added to
the budget of the Homceopathic Medical College and the
salary of Professor Willis A. Dewey was increased by
that amount, to take effect at the beginning of the present
University year, and Professor Dewey's title was made
"Professor of Materia Medica and Therapeutics and Acting Professor of Mental and Nervous Diseases in the
Homceopathic Medical College."
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $6,731.29
was added to the repairs budget covering various items
requested after the making up of the repairs budget and
authorized by the Buildings and Grounds Committee at
various times during the summer.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board allowed
the use of $300., originally provided for a skylight in the
quarters of the Anatomical Laboratory, to be used, at the
request of the Anatomical department, for other repairs
believed to be more desirable.
On motion the Board adjourned for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION
The Board reassembled at 2 o'clock, the same members being present as at the morning session.
On motion of Regoent Leland, Regent Grant was
appointed to initial the University vouchers for October,
November, and December.




OCTOBER MEETING, I911.


263


The President presented a letter from Professor
Alfred H-. White transmitting the letter of the Acme
White Lead and Color Works in which this Company
offered to pay the Treasurer of the University $500. to
be used, during the present University year, for the establishment of a fellowship for the study of the protection of
concrete and stucco from    disintegration.   On motion of
Regent Sawyer, the gift of the Acme White Lead and
Color Works was accepted with grateful appreciation of
the Regents.
Mr. Albert Kahn, architect of the Hill Memorial
Auditorium, appeared and addressed the Board relative
to building plans.
On motion of Regent Grant, the following resolution
was adopted:Resolved, That the entire Hill Meemorial Auditorium,
including the roof, shall be of fire-proof construction.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board adopted this
further resolution:
Resolved, That the Finance Committee, with the Building Commitltee, be authorized to consider bids on the Hill
Memorial Auditorium work, and to determine on the successful bidder or bidders, and, after the award by such committee, the University officers are instructed to make proper
oontracts,-all subject to such delays as may be entailed by
delay in the transfer to the Regents of real estate required
for the site.
The President presented the following resolutions of
the Wisconsin Alumni Association of the University of
Michigan relative to the death of the late Joseph Very
Quarles, '66, transmitted by Mr. John S. Stover, the Secretary of the Association:Joseph Very Quarles, the Judge of the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, died
at his home in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on Saturday, October
7, I9II.
Judge Quarles, as a youth, responded to the call of his
country and served in the War of the Rebellion. He then
completed his course in the Department of Letters in the




264


OCTOBER MEETING, ip9i.


University of Mlichigan with the class of I866. He studied
law and began the practice of it in Kenosha; Wisconsin. He
served as District Attorney of Kenosha County, member of
the City Council, and as a member of the School Board. He
served in the State Legislature and later was elected to the
United States Senate. After his retirement from the Senate
he was appointed United States Judge, which position he
held at the time of his death.
'In all the stations of trust and honor which he held,
serving the municipality, state and nation, he discharged the
duties with conscientious fidelity to the trust reposed in
him. He exemplified conspicuously the maxim "Suaviter in
modo, fortiter in re."
He was loyal to Alma Mtater, and no one of her graduates took greater pride in her history and development
than did our friend and fellow alumnus. No one upon
whom the University bestowed its honors prized them more,
and upon him, in I903, the Board of Regents conferred the
degree of Doctor of Laws.
Gifted beyond most men in personal attraction of mien
and manner, he drew to himself friends from all circles of
life. He was a genial companion, a loyal friend.
Because of his life of public service and of his marked
personal virtues, we lament the loss which cur city, the state,
the nation, his Alma MIater and his family sustains.
As members of the Wisconsin Alumni Association of
the University of Michigan, of which he was one of the first
members and of which body he was President at the time
of his death, we desire to express our appreciation of the
life and character of our departed friend as well as our sympathy to his bereaved family. Though the persuasive voice
is silent, our memories retain pleasant recollections of the
man, the life he lived, the work he wrought.
We hereby instruct the Secretary of the Alumni Asscciation of the University of Michigan to spread these lines
upon the records of the Association, and to communicate a
copy thereof to Mrs. Joseph V. Quarles, and, in further
memory of our deceased friend, to communicate them to the
Board of Regents of the University and to the General
Alumni Association for publication in the Michigan Alumnus.
Regent Grant reported that Mrs. Theodore D. Buhl
had sent $500. to the Treasurer of the University for the
renewal of the Buhl Classical Fellowship for the current
year. On motion, this gift was accepted with the thanks




OCTOBER MEETING, 191I.


265


of the Board to Mrs. Buhl for her continued generosity.
The President reported the following gifts.to the project of residential halls for women, and on motion of
Regent Beal, the thanks of the Regents were extended to
the donors for their generous co-operation:Mr. J. L. Hudsonl, of Detroit, $I,ooo.
Mr. D. M. Ferry, Jr., of Detroit, $500.
Mr. Lem Bowen, of Detroit, $500.
On motion of Regent Grant, degrees were granted as
follows, as recommended by the Faculty of the Department of Law:Juris Doctor
John Fletcher Lewis
Bachelor of Laws
Benjamin F. Anderson
Philip Sheridan Dickinson
John P. Faucher
Danliel M. McLaughlin
Alfred F. Mlyer
Fritz Loba Radford
Clarence William Roberts
Meredith P. Sawyer
Lee J. Scroggie
Joseph H. Taylor
Austin H. Trier
Harry F. Wittenbrink
Pierre Archibold Vogel
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board voted that
items in the expense vouchers of instructors at the Summer Camp, covering an estimated difference between the
cost of board at the camp and at home, could not be
allowed.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the sum of $150. was
added to the budget as the salary of an Assistant in Organic Chemistry for the first semester, this Assistant to
give the course required by the students of the I-omceopathic Medical College.
On motion of Regent Beal, the sum of $100. was
allowed for the purchase of duplicate books for the
courses in Fine Arts.




266


OCTOBER MEETING, I9/i.


Regent Clements and Regent Sawyer reported on the
progress of the repairs to the kitchens at the University
Hospital, and stated that new screens were being put in
and that new floors and such painting as was required
would be provided as rapidly as possible and at the next
meeting a report would be presented on a more complete
plan.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the degree of Doctor of
Dental Surgery was conferred on the following, as recommended by the Dental Faculty:Ray Omar Lamb
Don Cellon Nichols
John Loomis Olsaver
Earl Whitney Ward
A request for the appointment of an Assistant in
Zoology for the first semester was referred to the President, with power.
On motion of Regent Beal, Mr. Anton A. Schlichte
was appointed as the holder of the Carl Schmidt Fellowship in Tanning for the present University year, with a
stipend of $600.
On motion of Regent Beal, the title of Junior Professor Case was changed to read as follows:-"Junior Professor of Historical Geology and Paleontology and
Curator of the Paleontological Collection." This change
is to involve no increase in salary.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board added $120. to
the budget of the Botanical Garden to provide for the
salary of the gardener at the rate of $70. per month during
the present University year, in accordance with the action
of the Regents on page 138 of the Proceedings.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the Purchasing Department of the University of Michigan be authorized to purchase for the President's office an office desk at a cost not to exceed $70.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the degree of Doctor
of Medicine was conferred upon BPodo E. Miller, as of
the class of 1911, in accordance with the recommendation




OCTOBER MEETING, I9ir.


267


of the Faculty of the Department of Medicine and Surgery.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the degree of Doctor
of Dental Surgery was conferred upon Harry Bruce
Webb, in accordance with the recommendation of the
Faculty of the College of Dental Surgery.
On motion of Regent Leland, $500. was added to the
budget as compensation to the University Y. M. C. A.
for the work of that organization in co-operating with
the University officials, this work taking the form of an
employment agency, a rooming and boarding house
bureau, information bureau, publication of the University
Hand-book, etc. It was the sense of the Board that this
sum should be hereafter allowed in the budget from year
to year unless the Board should, at its pleasure, direct
otherwise.
On motion of Regent Leland, an expenditure not to
exceed $840.75 from the "Fund for Increasing the Usefulness of the University" was authorized toward the
expense of conducting the University News-Letter. This
action of the Board continues during the year 1911-1912,
the course originally provided for 1910-1911 under the
resolution appearing on page 827 of the minutes.
Regent Grant presented the following communication
from the Secretary, and on motion, the various appointments were confirmed and approved, with authority to
add such other appointments as had been made by the
Secretary after October 17:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for October 26, I9II.
The following routine appointments have been made by
the Secretary and they are here submitted for approval
and for record. The budget makes proper provision in every
ease. All the appointments are for the University year I9II1912 unless otherwise stated.
Otto H. J.. Ruettinger, Assistant in Qualitative Analysis,
salary $Ioo., to, succeed George Willard Maxwell, recently
appointed, but who has resigned to accept an assistantship
in the department of Physics.
George Warfield Armstrong, Assistant to the Director




268            OCTOBER MEETING, i9II.
of the Chemical Laboratory, without salary, to succeed
C. N. Dawe.
Walter Calhoun   Wheeler, Assistant in  Quantitative
Analysis, salary $Ioo., to succeed J. D. Yoder.
Henry S. Rawdon, Assistant to the Dlirector of the
Chemical Laboratory, at a salary of $300., to succeed W. B.
Hurley.
Bruce J. Miles, Part Time Messenger to Dean Reed,
salary $250.
Ben G. Holtom, Part Time Messenger to Dean Reed,
salary $250.
Russell C. Hussey, Assistant in Geology, at a salary of
$200.
Wilbur I. Robinson, Assistant in Geology, at a salary of
$200.
Wayne G. Smith, Assistant in Geology, at a salary of
$200.
Miss Elizabeth Thompson, Assistant in Zoology, at a
salary of $3oo., vice Rudolph Glas!er, resigned.
Harry F. Gardner, Assistant in Mineralogy, at a salary
of $200.
Nason C. Johnson, Assistant in Mineralogy, at a salary
of $200.
Frederick B. Wahr, previously appointed Assistant in
German at $300., was later appointed Fellow in German and
declined the assistantship. On request of Professor Winkler,
the duties of Mr. Wahr were added to the duties of Assistants C. H. Williams and Alfred E. Lussky and the salary
appropriated for Mr. Wahr was divided between them, making the salaries of Messrs. Williams and Lussky $450. each
instead of $300. each.
Miss,Anna Young, Clerk and Stenographer in the College of Dental Surgery, at the rate of $6oo. per year, the
appointment to date from October I6.
Miss Olive Lindsay, Stenographer for the department of
Pathology, Pharmacy, and for the Director of the Chemical
Laboratory, at a total salary of $600., as provided in fraction'al amounts in the budgets of the various departments
specified. Miss. Lindsay's appointment is to date from July I,
George Waddell Snedecor, B.S., Assistant in Physics.
at a salary of. $6oo.
Louis Kossuth Oppitz, M.A., Assistant in Physics, at a
salary of $650.




OCTOBER MEETING, 191i.                       269
George Willard Maxwell, Assistant in Physics, at a
salary of $300.
Jerome G. Kuderna, Assistant in Physics, at a salary
of $300.
George Stanley Rutherford, B.S., Teaching Assistant in
'General and Physical Chemistry, at a salary of $500., vice
J. D. Burby, resigned.
Alfred Lyon Ferguson, A.B., A.M., Teaching Assistant
in General and Physical Chemistry, at a salary of $450., vice
G. S. Rutherford, resigned.
Lawrence C. Johnson, A.B., Teaching Assistant in General and Physical Chemistry, at a salary of $450., vice A. L.
Ferguson, resigned.
S. E. Regester, A.M., Teaching Assistant in General
and Physical Chemistry, at a salary of $400., vice L. C.
Johnson, resigned.
Leonard H. Cretcher, Teaching Assistant in General
and Physical Chemistry for the first semester, at a salary
of $200., vice S. H. Regester, resigned.
Emil Munch, Assistant in General and Physical Ch:mistry, without salary, vice R. H. Bryant, resigned.
Mark Finley, Assistant in General and Physical Chemistry, without salary.
B. C. Getty, Assistant in General and Physical Chemistry, without salary.
W. R. Edie, Student Assistant in Waterman Gymnasium,
in place of E. R. Colwell, resigned, at the same salary, $ro.
Dean Cooley further reports the following division of
the teaching force in Civil Engineering into the two departments of Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics.
CIVIL ENGINEERING         ENGINEERING MECHANICS
A. E. Green..........$2,5co  C. J. Tilden..........$2,500
C. A. Ellis...........,800 A. B. Pierce.......... I,6oo
E. D. Rich........... I,600 A. J. Decker.......... 1,400
H. F. French........,200
Assistants                   Assistan ts
W. O. Crossman.....$ 2cc    0. W. Bauer........$ 20c
O. E. Eckert.........   200  I. T. Hook..........    200
E. W. Klatte.........   200 J. F. Pierce..........    20o
H. P. Seelye.........  200
$6,500                       $7,500
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRTLY W. SMITH,
October 17, I91I.                          Secretary.




270            OCTOBER MEETING, I9pr.
The following are the additional appointments referred to:Bert L. Lutz, Laboratory Attendant, Departments of
Physiology and Pharmacology, salary $300. in each department.
Heinrich Reye, A.B., Assistant in Physiology, at the
salary of $300.
Elton John Bennett, Assistant in English in the Department of Engineering, at the salary of $200.
Roy Hinman Holmes, A.B., Assistant in English in the
Department of Engineering, at the salary of $200.
John Hendershott Henning, Assistant in Stereotomy,
Mechanism and Drawing, at the salary of $Ioo.
Frank White Miller, Assistant in; Stereotomy, Mechan-,ism, and Drawing, at the salary of $Ioo.
Normal Hosmer Preble, Assistant in Stereotomy, iMIechanism and Drawing, at the salary of $Ioo.
Frank -Lloyd Weaver, Assistant in Stereotomy, Mechanism, and Drawing, at the salary of $ioo.
Otto Ernst C!arl Boertmann, Assistant in the Engin,eering Shops, at the salary of $200.
Harry Eriksen, Assistant in Surveying, at the salary of
$I00.
Erik August Eriksen, Assistant in Surveying, at the
salary of $0oo.
James Wightman Follin, Assistant in Surveying, at the
salary of $o00.
IGeorge Leo Gerard, Assistant in Surveying, at the salary of $oo00.
Stanley Thompson Mills, Assistant in Surveying, at the
salary of $Io0.
Thomas Joseph Mitchell, Assistant in Surveying, at the
salary of $o00.
Frank Alanson Walton, Assistant in Surveying, at the
salary of $oo00.
Mervin Kqaufman Baer, A.B., B.S. (in Engineering),
Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, at the salary of $200.
Matthew Rhodes Blish, B.Ml.E., Assistant in Maechanical Engineering, at the salary of $200.
Jean Ernest Snyder, Assistant in Mechanical Engineering, 'at the salary of $200.
Erwin Palmer Bancroft (one-half time), Assistant in
Electrical Engineering, at the salary of $Ioo.




OCTOBER MEETING, I91i.


271


Harry Leonard Brown (one-half time), Assistant in
Electrical Enginering, at the salary of $Ioo.
Fred Morgan (one-half time), Assistant in Electrical
Engineering, at the salary of $ioo.
Harry Stevenson Sheppard (one-half time), Assistant
in Electrical Engineering, at the salary of $Ioo.
Daniel William Hayes (full time), Assistant in Electrical Engineering, at the salary of $200.
Stanley Dinsmore Livingston (full time), Assistant in
Electrical Engin;eering, at the salary of $200.
Walter Meredith Rennie (full time), Assistant in Electrical Engineering, vice A. B. Clark, at the salary of $200.
Theodore Wilson Fowle, A.B., Assistant in Chemical
Engineering, at the salary 'of $200.
Edwin Griffin Pierce, Ph.B., Assistant in Chemical Engineering, at the salary oef $Ioo.
Robert Bennett Rowley, Assistant in Chemical Engineering, at the salary of $o0o.
Em;ery Cox, Assistant in Marine Engineering, at the
salary of $200.
Ernest Kremers, Assistant in Architecture, at the salary of $200.
Regent Beal presented the following communication,
and on motion, the request of Professor Taylor was
granted:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for October 26,
I9II'.
In I93 the University began the practice of printing
and distributing, to, the class in elementary economics, leaflets containing problems or notes. Each year since that date
the volume of these notes has been. increased, till for the
current year they amount to 365 pages. Having reached this
volume, it seemed almost necessary that they should be
bound into book form, which, accordingly, was done this
summer. In the meanwhile, the cost of these leaflets, which
at first was entirely defrayed by the University, has since
go16 been covered in increasing proportion by a fee collected
from the students who elect the course. This year said fee
was $I.50, this sum being in effect the price paid for a text
of 365 pages. It now seems certain that some surplus over
cost will accrue from this first edition, in spite of the fact




272


OCTOBER MEETING, I911.


that we do not expect to use it for more than two years.
I would respectfully request that said surplus be set aside
as a special printing fund for the department of political,economy. Such a fund is n:eeded both to provide supplementary materials for the course using this text, and also
to cover the expense of supplying printed matter in other
courses where the class is too small to meet said expense
with a class fee of reasonable amount.
F. M. TAYLOR.
October I3, I9II.
Approved.                        J. 0. REED,
Dean.
On motion of Regent Beal, degrees were conferred as
follows, in accordance with the recommendation of the
Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for October 26, 1911.
The Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, at its meeting, October 9, I911, recommended
the following persons for the degrees specified:
Bachelor of Science
Wendell LeRoy Perkins
Master of Arts
Grace Wilder Bailey, Ph.B., Hillsdale College
Mary Julia Wall Dillingham, A.B., Indiana University
Charles Smalley Foster, A.B. and A.M., Antioch College
George Washington Furrey, Ph.B., University of Michigan
John Grafton M;cGavran, A.B., Bethany College
James Snowden Worrall, B.S., Ohio Wesleyan University
Doctor of Philosophy
Harvey Clayton Brill, A.B., Miami University
Henry Newell Goddard, Ph.B.
James Elmer Harris, A.B., M.S.
Elizabeth Sinclair Holderman, A.B., A.M.
Respectfully submitted,
A. G. HALL,
Registrar.
October i6, I9II.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1911.


273


fo the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for considerattion if possible at your meeting called for October 26, I9II.
The Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, at its meeting, October 9, I9II, recommended
the following persons to receive the degree of Bachelor of
Arts:
Claude Brechner
Leora Adelia Chapin
Gladys Juanita Chappeii
Catherine Frances Clark
George Bradford Corless
Lucy Davis
Frances Fern Dickie
Archie Aerie Ellsworth
Jose Segundo Garcia
Rudolph William Glaser
Rebecca Mary Hannum
Pauline Harris
Campbell Harvey
Mary Anna Horrigan
John Henry Jensen
Gordon Willis Kingsbury
Spencer Gazlay Kuhn
John William Langdon
Walter Byron M\cDougall
Harley Jay McMacken
Mabel E. Marshall
Milla Pemberton Molrton
Guy Leroy Mowrey
Hazel Anna Murphy
Edward LaRue O'Brien
Edtith Charity Owen
M'ary Parker
Howard Clark Porter
Mary Hargrave Reynolds
Leo Stephens
Mamie Stevens
Hortense Stoddard
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR G. HALL,
Registrar.
October I6, I9I1,




274


OCTOBER MEETING, I9 Ir.


On motion of Regent Beal, teacher's diplomas were
granted to the following persons, in accordance with the
recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of
Literature, Science, and the Arts:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for October 26, I9II.
The Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, at its meeting, October 9, 191, recommended
the following persons to receive the Teacher's Diploma:
Harold Blair
Leora Adelia Chapin
Gladys Juanita Chappell
Catherine Frances Clark
Floyd William Crawford
Frances Fern Dickie
Robert Granville
Pauline Harris
Louise Moses Hollon
Harley Jay McMacken
Milla Pemberton Morton
Hazel Anna Murphy
Edith Charity Owen.Hortense Stoddard
Sarah Hitt Sutherland
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR G. HALL,
October I6, I9II.                      Registrar.
On motion of Regent Leland, the President was requested to take proper steps to secure the meeting of the
Michigan State Teachers' Association in Ann Arbor for
the year 1913.
Regent Hubbard presented the request of Mr. W. C.
Hollands, of the Bindery and Printing Plant, that he be
allowed to take his vacation in periods of a few days at
various times during the year instead of in one period.
On motion, this request was granted with the provision
that Mr. Hollands should file notice with the Secretary
each time he proposed to be absent and that such absence
should not interfere with his regular duties.




OCTOBER MEEETING, I911.


275


On motion of Regent Leland, Miss Gerda M. Okerlund was given permission to register as a resident of
Michigan.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the request of Miss
Anna Burlingame for leave of absence during the months
of November and December was granted with the understanding that Miss Burlingame should provide a suitable
substitute to take her place in the office at her own
expense.
On motion of Regent Clements, the salary of Miss
Esther A. Smith, Head      Cataloguer in the General
Library, was increased from   $925. to $1,125., to take
effect November 1, with the understanding that, in
accordance with the terms of the request, it would not
increase the total salary budget of the library.
On motion of Regent Beal, the following requests
were referred to the President for investigation, with
the understanding that the Executive Committee should
have power to make appointments, if additional assistance was found necessary:i. Request for an additional Instructor in Rhetoric
at the salary of $I,200.
2. Request for an additional Assistant in French in the
Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, at the
salary olf $300.
3. Request for the appocintment of Mr. Gilbert H. Taylor, present Fellow in Latin, to an assistantship in Latin, at
the salary of $300. in addition to the stipend of his Fellowship.
4. Request for an! additional Assistant in Mathematics
in the Department of Literature, Science, and the Arts, at
the salary of $300.
On motion of Regent Leland, the request of Professor
Kelsey for an appropriation not to exceed $25. for a set
of shelves was granted.
Regent Leland presented the request of Assistant
Professor Cross and Professor Kelsey for an appropriation not to exceed $175. for continuing the work of
mounting   ancient inscriptions  on  the  halls of the
Memorial Building. No action was taken on this request




276


OCTOBER MEETING, 1911.


pending the receipt of a careful estimate of the cost of
completing the work in question.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, degrees were conferred as follows, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Engineering:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for October 26, I9Ii.
The Faculty of the Department of Engineering, at its
meeting on September 30, recommended the following candidates for graduation. The list is transmitted for action by
the Regents.
Bachelor.of Science in Engineering
Francis Edward Cassidy
John Wesley Hendricks
Ray Carlton Sackett
Lawrence Eugene Sloan
Bachelor of Civil Engineering
Morgan Smith Biggs
James Ralph Gibson
William George Menerey
Frank Andrew Ortman
Russel Burr Palmer
Norman Gilman Ray
Edwin Wilbert Renz
Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering
August Frederick Hutzel
Sprague Jones
Royal Kerch Long
William Anthony Reed
Bachelor of Electrical Engineering
Edward Wright Vanderfield
M. E. COOLEY.
October i8, I9II.
Regent Hubbard reported that the committee of the
Michigan Gas Association had consented to divide the
Junior Gas Engineering Fellowship of $300. into two
fellowships of $150. each, and that the Faculty of Chemical Engineering requested the appointment of Mr. Louis




OCTOBER MEETING, 191i.


277


C. Nodell and Mr. Dale L. Chamberlin as joint holders
of the Fellowship, with stipends of $150. each.   On
motion of Regent Hubbard, the appointments were made
as requested.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the resignation of
Mr. Alfred D. Schoch as Instructor in French and Spanish was accepted and Mr. Walter Robert Rathke was
appointed in his place for the year 1911-1912 at the salary
of $900.
The resignation of Mr. Harry A. Augenblick as
Instructor in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing was
accepted and Mr. Abraham M. Fox was appointed in his
place for the year 1911-1912 at the salary of $900.; Mr.
John Fay Wilson was appointed as Instructor in Electrical Engineering for the year 1911-1912 at the salary of
$1,200. in place of Assistant Professor Higbie, absent on
leave; Mr. Stanley B. Wiggins was appointed Instructor
in Descriptive Geometry and Drawing for the year 1911 -1912 at the salary of $1,100. in place of Assistant Professor Fishleigh, absent on leave. Mr. Fox declined the
Fellowship in Transportation to which he was appointed
(see page 244), in order to accept the above instructorship.
Regent Hanchett presented the following communication, and on his motion, seconded by Regent Hubbard,
the thanks of the Board of Regents were voted to the
Board of Public Works of the City of Grand Rapids for
its kind co-operation with the work of the University:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for October 26, I9Ir.
Tlhe Board of Public Works of the City of Grand Rapids, Michigan, consisting of
E. H. Christ, President,
Chas. E. Norton,
S. J. Hufford,
C. W. Merritt,
H. J. Klevorn,
Samuel A. Freshney, Secretary and General Mianager,
has tendered to the Department of Engineering, with its
compliments, a bound copy of "Proposal Specifications and




27.,


OCTOBER MEETING, 1911.


Contract, Contract No. I, For the Construction of a Clear
Water Conduit, Intake and Drain. I9I0. The City of Grand
Rapids, Mich. Hering & Fuller, Consulting Engineers,"
with a complete set of blue print plans of the work embraced
in this contract. These will be valuable to the Department
in its teaching of municipal and sanitary engineering, and
it is respectfully recommended that the thanks of the Regents be tendered the Board of Public Works for its donation.
Very respectfully,
October I8, 1911.                    M.. COOLEY.
On motion of Regent Beal, instructors in the courses
for the removal of entrance conditions were appointed as
follows:Mr. W. W. Sleator, Physics Z, two full courses for the
academic year I9II-192, compensation $360.
Mlr. V. C. Poor and Mr. C. J. Coe, Mathematics Z,
first semester, and
Assistant Professor L. C. Karpinski, Mathematics Z,
second semester (Professor K'arpinski to have general supervision of the entire work). The compensation for each
of these three instructors is to be $go.
Mr. Otto Marckwardt, for a special course in English
covering one and one-half semesters, three times a week,
compensation $I80.
On motion of Regent Grant, it was voted that when
the Board adjourned, the adjournment should be
to November 17.
Professor Kelsey and Professor Lorch appeared and
addressed the Board relative to a comprehensive plan for
campus development.
Regent Clements and Regent Leland were excused.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board voted that a
committee consisting of the President, three Regents,
and three members of the University Senate should be
appointed to consider the future architectural development of the campus.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise specified.
On motion the Board adjourned to November 17.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




APPENDIX TO REGENTS PROCEEDINGS
OCTOBER 26, 1911
ANNUAL REPORT OF THE TREASURER OF THE UNIVERSITY.(As ACCEPTED JULY 20. SEE PAGE 198.)
To the Finance Committee, Board of Regents, University of Michigan:Gentlemen: Herewith I submit my annual report for the fiscal year ending June
30, I9I I.                Very respectfully,
GEORGE S. BAKER, Treasurer.
CONDENSED STATEMENT GENERAL, SPECIAL AND BUILDING FUNDS.




Balance July I, I9I...................................
State Treasurer:
38 Mill Tax, General Fund............................
University Interest Fund...............................
Special Appropriations 
Building Fund.......
Miscellaneous Sources:
General Fund..........................................
General Fund..........................................
Special Appropriations.............
Building Fund.........................................
Balance June 30, 191..................................


DisburseReceipts.     ments.
I            2
I66,774.47...........
650,287.50  Column   4
38,481.25  Column   4
9,0.oo00  Column   8
I7,828. 15  Column 12
505,659.25  Column   4;I,388,030.62
Column   5 $I,I97,630.84
Column io       7,742.41
Column 14      65,013.30..........  I 17,644.07
____$$1,388,030.62






DETAILED STATEMENT GENERAL FUND.
Student                    DisburseFees        Receipts        ments        Salaries   Refunds
3             4             5             6           7
Balance July I,, I9o.............  $ 126,929.18..............................
State Treasurer,
3/ Mill Tax.................           650,287.5...............
State Treasurer,
University Interest............    38,481.2.........................
Alumni Association............   $,400..........
Appointment Committee......................         1 36.41
Barbour Gymnasium... $          536.0o        536.00 oo      I75.84........    $    i6.co
Contingent                                   1,955.03     15,192.01
Contingent.....................         i9.           5,19........... I..........
Combined    Courses...       I,495.00       1,495.0           o.o.......... 90.00  o0
Care of Teams.............................                2,999.5..............




280


APPENDIX.


=.


I




--


=


-




-


Commencement.......
Carpenter Shops......
Diplomas.............
Electrical Supplies.....
Fuel..................
General Library.....
Gen. Library Contingent
Gen. Library Pay Roll..
General Catalogue....
Gen. Catalogue Revision
General Pay Roll......
Graduate School.......
Grad. Fellow   Pay Roll
Humanistic Series..
Heating Supplies.....
Hinsdale History.....
Interest..............
Key Tickets..........
Laundry..............
Lights................
Museum..............
Memorial Exhibit......
Observatory..........
Oratorical Association..
Publicity and
Organization Alumni.
Printing Plant........
Postage..............
Printing..............
Palmer Field.........
Real Estate..........
R epairs...............
Removal of Art Gallery
Summer School
Literary...........
Summer School
Engineering.......
Summer School Medical
Summer School Law..
Summer School
Graduate...........
Summer School Gymnasium   (Waterman)
Summer School Gymrasium   (Barbour)...
Summer School. Pay Roll...........
Summer School
Expenses...........
School Inspection.....


Student
Fees
3
I1, I70.00..................
5,685.00
7Io.oo............
9.50
io,8o6.oo
6,770.00
35.........
3,260.00
3,057.00
68.00
I..........
6,7.................a
67.......






I






Receipts;
4
258.50
11,170.00
18.92
I,280.00
2C8.25
42.00
1,422.75
227.40
5,685.oo
10.00
907.50
2,641.44
7 1o.oo
827.54
349.16
227.17
70.64
9.50
1,420.01
422.86
Io,8o5.oo
6,770.00
1,835.00
3,260.00
3,057.00
52.50
68.oo
I 00.00.I0


Disbursementts
5
1,953.76
2,o68. 8
2,235.32
6,247.75
43,295.25
14,933.88
1,825.54.
23,734.75
9.00
1,479.20
91,034. I4
721.57
2,00IO.00
596.73
I,26I.86
147.85............
661.75
13,681.28
2,274.75
856.80
35.50
1,163.99
76.60
2,022.09
3,330.03
2,955.43
4,259.84
47,676.17
41.43
401.00
70.00
70.00
87.50
2.00
46,274.09
1,566.91
605.24






__ -~


I


Salaries
6
$ 23,734.75..........
91,034.14
2,010.00




Refunds
7
150.00
199.00co
661.75
40.....
70.00
70.00
87.50
1.00
2.00
4O.OO...
7.0.o0..
7......
8......









46,274.09




I.




I




I








_






APPENDIX.


281


l




I




Store Room..........
Special Keys.........
Thesis................
Teachers' Diplomas...
Telephone Rental.....
Tuberculosis Shack....
Water Analysis.......
Waterman    Gymnasium
Water Supply........
Dental Supplies.......
Dental College.......
Dental Library.......
Dental Pay Roll......
Dental Laboratory...
Architecture..........
Camp Fees, Civil Eng..
Chemical Engineering..
Civil Engineering.....
Drawing Boards......
Drawing..............
Engineering Shops....
Electrical Engineering.
Engineering Apparatus..
Engineering Key
Tickets.............
Engineering Library...
Engineering Departmcnt
Engineering Department
Pay Roll...........
MIechanical Laboratory..
Marine...............
Physics...............
Surveying............
Summer Camp........
Special Physics.......
Homoeopathic College..
Homceopathic College
Pay Roll..........
Homceopathic College
Library.............
Homeopathic Hospital
Homceop. Hos. Pay Roll
Law Department.....
Law Dept. Pay Roll...
Law Library..........


Student
Fees
3
76.00
250. c
304.00
3,28. 00
I7,742.00
2,400.00
520.00
447.00,792.00
73,593.00
5,895.00
97.00
430- o0
5,853.00..........






I, _


Receipts
4
45.28
76.00
250.00
304.00
590.00
3,228.00
2.00
11,295.04
I7,742.00
2,400.00
520.00co.74
I9.23
447.00
611.83
1,792.00
3.62
88.oo
73,593.00
5,895.20
349.35............
97.a00.06
43o.00
6,043.65




Disbursements
5
3,433. II
54.25 
5,5o.00
2.00
1,663.52
65.89
63.33
4,64I.10
10,547.78
236.85
17,085.52
30.00
3,329.65
352.28
397.13
369.00
3,816.18
819.11
15,437.27
6i.oo
2,3189.32
3,538.23
157,607.o6
I,655.o5
I43.80
3,39I.26
215.86
1,633.97
I,073.41
10,695.27
I54.15
24,665.67
12, 103.56
1,829.08
63,553.52
4,832.65




_


Salaries
6
17,085.52






I




Refunds
7
54.25
550.co
2 00
8.oo00
313.oo
30.co
369.00
135.00
6i.oo
114.00




157,607.o6..,695.2..............
* o,695.27


7


t.




35,872.32............










2,103.56......






I


52,233.oo   52,233.00


63.55352......


















282


APPENDIX.


------------—  --- --------


_ --- —- 


---


American History....
Botanical Laboratory..
Botanical Garden.....
Biological Station.....
Change in Election....
Delayed Election......
Delayed Registration...
Education.............
English..............
Forestry..............
Greek.................
Geology..............
German...............
French...............
Latin.................
Literary Department...
Literary Dept. Pay Roll
Landscape Gardening..
Mineralogy...........
Music................
Mathematics..........
Political Economy....
Philosophy...........
Rhetoric.............
Special Examinations;..
Solid.Geometry.......
Zoology..............
Anatomical Account....
Demonstration   Courses
Dermatology.........
Hygiene..............
Histology.............
Internal Medicine......
Medical Department...
Medical Pay Roll......
Medical Library......
Materia Medica......
Neurology............
Osteology............
Ophthalmology........
Otology...............
Practical Anatomy.....
Pathology............
Physiology............
Pharmacology........
Pasteur Institute......
Surgery..............
University Hospital....


Stu dent                   DisburseFees       Receipts        ments
3            4              5......................247.5c
1,5I4.00       1,519.60      i,I6i.8<..........    64. I       2,177.3(.........     25.76        602.5;
20.00         20.00............
152.00         I52.00          4.o0
6o.oo         60.00           5.oc.....................        94.5(....................    i86.6(..........     10.00        696.9;..6.............9,.......................   632.6.....................   I159. I..............22.4'
510.00         510.00        193.-0
84,7'78.00    84.778.00       1,878.2,..............240o.0  251,730. 1................................  506.8
577.00        577.00       I,007.7'...................... I88.4......................         I   II.5
255.50         371.53        647.6......................289.3
110.00           0.00 o.49.0
75.00          75.00...........
375.00         375.00
1,370.0o       1,38498       1,466.7..........     11.02       2,62I.c
4,4Co.00       4,400.00        I69.8..........     6.8o        I93.C
3,407.77      3,420.02       5,797-3
1,43L.00       1,431.00       7 8.7
6.00        573.I2,7I4.00     I2,714.00        840.3..........     76.30      67,555.-..........................  3,489-.............50        387......................           I28.<
415.00        4I5.oo         265.-......................4 38.:......................          581I.
2,436.00       2,436. 00        3I.
1,650o.00o,65o.oo       i,668.(
195.70         I95.70        90.:
200.00         200.00          5...........,200.00.................68o..........   89,173.76      59,753.


7
3
2
9
7
5
0
3
5
2
9
7
I
8
I
4
)2
Sc
[C;7;i
I
5(
1
I3
5(
51
It
3,


Salaries
6
251,730.12..........
5....................
1   67,555.28..........................................................................................
6..........
3


Refunds
7
47.50
4.oo
5.00oo
1,814.00
26.75
2.25
29.50
20.00
536.13
6o.oo
260.00
265.25
31.50
503.25
68.co
5.00


=._ __






APPENDIX.


283


Stu dent
Fees
3


University Hospital
Pay Roll...........
Chemical Laboratory...
Chem. Lab. Pay Roll..
Pharmacy Department..
Pharmacy Department
Pay Roll...........
Balance June 30, I9II..
Total Student Fees....
Less Fees Refunded,
Column 7...........
Student Fees Net......


Receipts
4
281.35
20,627.24
5,340.oo
20.00


20,609.93
5,340.00..........


Disbursemenits     Salaries
5           6
29, I89.96  29, I89.96
18,464.14..........
37,904.22  37,904.22
470.35..........
6,6 7.25   6,617.25
123,726.34.........
$1,321,357. I  $817,094.74
Total............  Salaries


Refunds
7
2,695.86
122.50


$352,9c9.90 $I,32;,357.18
13,367.89............
$339,542.0I


$13,367.89
Fees
Refunded


DETAILED STATEIMENT SPECIAL APPROPRIATIONS.


HOMOEOPATHIC IMEDICAL COLLEGE.


Balance July I, 1910..............
From   State Treasurer..............
Paid  Vouchers.......................
Balance June 30, I9II.................


Receipts
8
$  6,coo.oo..........


Total
9
$   590.14
6,coo.co
$ 6,590.I4
$ 3,000.00
$ 3,000.00


Disburseimnelts
o1
*$ 4,742.41..........


Total
II
$ 4,742.41
1,847.73
$ 6,59o.I4


SUMiMER HOSPITAL.


From   State Treasurer................    $  3,000.00
Paid Vouchers...........................


$  3,0oo.00


PSYCHOPATHIC WARD.


$ 3.co0. oD
$ 3,000.00
$ 9,464.63
$ 9,464.63


Balance Overdrawn July I, I9IO........
Balance Overdrawn June 30, 1911......


$ 9,oo0.oo


$ 9,464.63
$ 9,464.63


$ 7,742~141




284


APPENDIX.
DETAILED STATEMENT BUILDING ACCOUNT.
ACCUMULATION OF SAVINGS.


Equipment of Observatory.


Receipts
12........................




I


Balance July I, I9I....................
Paid Vouchers.
Balance June 30, I9I..................


Total
13
$    52.51
$    52.51
$   103.32
$. 103.32


Disburseen t s
I4


I5


c


Total


$    48.56..........


$   48.56
3.95
$   52.51


Equipment to Engineering Laboratory.


Balance July I, I9I..................
Paid Vouchers.......................
Balance June 30, I91I..................


$     I8.io..........


$    I8. Io
85.22
$   I03.32


Newe Dental Building.


Balance July I, I9o0.............................
Balance  June  30,  191I........................


$    47.58
$ 47......58
$    47.58


$   47.58
$   47.58


Addition to Observatory.


Balance July I, 9Io....................
From State Treasurer..................
Paid  Vouchers................
Balance June 30, I91I..................


$   400.00


$ 1,065.04
$ 400.00...,4....
$ 1,465.04


$ I,050.gS


Equipm.ent of New Dental Building.
Balance July I, I910...................
Balance June 30, 1911..................
Newz Chemical Laboratory.


$ i,o6o.c8
404.06
$ 1,465.c4.........
$   I3.90
$   13.90


$   679.85




$    13.90
$    13.90


Balance July I, 191....................
From State Treasurer.................
Paid Vouchers.......................


$io,8o8.88.......................  $  I 1,488.77  $11488.77
$II,488.77            $ 11r,8.77
_Ils   ~7              $I,   _ -.




APPENDIX.                                        285
DisburseReceipts     Total       ments       Total
I2          13          I4          15
Addition to Engineering Builditng.
Balance July I, 9.............................       3,35454...................
From   Other Sources.................. $         45.66 $    4566...................
Paid Vouchers...........................................          $  3.   I7 $13,186.17
Balance June 30, I9I............................................     214.03
$r13,400.20             $1340o0.20
Repairs to Old Chemical Laboratory.
Balance July I, I9ro.............................    $I5,698.75.
From   State Treasurer................     $  2,200.00   2,200.00
Paid Vouchers........................ $................... $   7,4.,
Balance June 30, I9II.........................................          I4.75
$I7,898.75              $17,898.75
Eye and Ear W/ard.
Balance July I, 9O...........................$ 7,57526
From   State Treasurer................      $,000.00     oooo...................
From   Other Sources..................            2.60       2.6..........
Paid Vouchers......................................... $             8,400.05 $ 8,40o.05
Balance June 30, I911...............................................              177.8I
$ 8,577.86              $ 8,577.86
Eye and Ear Ward Corridor.
From   State Treasurer............... $       1,500.oo00 $,5o.oo.............
Paid Vouchers..........................................             $,005 $,o25
Balance June 30, I9II.................. 1.........................     439-75
$ i,500.oo              $ 1,500o.o
Stack Equipment, General Library.
From   State Treasurer................     $ 12,000.00 $i2,.000oo........0.....
Paid Vouchers..................................          $,866.42 $1T86642
Balance  June  30, 19II...............................................   I   33.58
$I2,000.00              $12,000.00
$ 17,828.1 5            $ 65,013.30






--






286                            APPENDIX.
SPECIAL AND BUILDING FUNDS.
SUMMARY OF BALANCES JUNE 30, 1911.
Psychopathic Ward Overdraft............................$ 9,464.63-$ 9,464.63


Credit Balances.
Homoeopathic Medical College..............................
Equipment of Observatory....................................
Equipment to Engineering Laboratory.........................
N ew   D ental  Building.........................................
Addition to Observatory......................................
Equipment of New Dental Building............................
Addition to Engineering Building..............................
Repairs to Old Chemical Building..............................
'Eye and Ear Ward............................................
Eye and Ear Ward Corridor..................................
Stack Equipment, General Library............................
Balance Overdrawn June 30, 1911..............................


1,847.73
3.95
85.22
47.58
404.o6
13.90
214.03
I4.75
177.81
439.75
133 58
6,082.27-$ 9,464.63


*Pay Roll Homceopathic College General Fund.................    $10,695.27
Pay Roll Homceopathic College Special Account................  4,742.41
Total Homceopathic College Pay Roll....................


$15,437.68


GIFT AND TRUST FUNDS.
Under this head are included gifts and other funds which the Regents have
received from time to time from tbenefactors for special purposes. The new accounts
opened during the year are: Architect Scholarship, American Institute of Architects
-Arthur Hill Bequest for Auditorium-Albert Kahn Scholarship in ArchitectureParthenon Freeze-Prescott Memorial —Emma J. Cole Fellcwship in Botany-Restoring Old Medical Building-Simith, Hinchman & Grylls Scholarship in ArchitectureTappan Memorial-Mortar Boiard Loan Scholarship —Hlumanistic Series Michigan
Studies Latin and Greek.
CONODNSED STAAT1MENT.
Total Funds July I, 191...............................................$33,98.5
Interest, Rentals, etc....................................               143,263.23
New Funds, Contributions, etc.......................................... 248,574.40
$705,817.98
Expenditures............................................................$159,843.70
Balance in Funds June 30, 191...........................................  545,974.28
$705,817.93




APPENDIX.
TABULATED STATEMENT (DETAILED).


287


NAME 


J


Amount
in Fund
uly I, '1I


I:


nterest or
Rentals


-7


iontributions


Expenditures


Income




Architecture Scholar, \Mich.
Chapter, Am,. Institute of
Architecture............
Adams Book Fund...... 
Albert Kahn Scholar in
Botany.................
A. M. Todd Prize Fund...
Arthur Hill Bequest for
Auditoriu............
Alice Freeman Palmer Memorial................
Allopathic Hos. Fund....
American School at Rome
A. B. Whittier Botany Fellowship................
Ann Arbor Branch
Collegiate Alumn.....
Bates Professorship      
Buhl Class Felloship....
Buhl Law Library........
Ben Greet Dramatic Fund
Binding Fac. Deuteronomy
and Joshua...........
Carnegie Fund Adv. of
Teaching...............
Class of '94 Scholarship..
Class of '97 Scholarship...
Class of '9g Scholarship...
Class of'99 Law Fellowship
Class of '03 Memorial....
Cole, Emma J., Fellowship
in Botany...........
Coyl Library Fund.......
Ford-Messer Fund.......
Fred'k Stearns & Co. Pharmacy Fellowship......
Gas Association Fellowship
Goethe Fund.............
Good Government Club..
Homcop. Hos. Trust Fund
Homceop. Hos. Interest Ac.
Humanistic Series Mich.
Studies Latin and Greek
Humanistic Series........
Instructor Biolog. Station.
J. B. Angell Fund........
L. H. Stone Sup. Loan
Fund 


--


i


267.I2




I00.00
2,382. 1
2,073.73.45
4,207.41
258.36
I30,958.6I
259.97
18o.81
IO.O8
10.08
241.27
2,442.25
251.0I
467.62
41.22
180.44
10,370.40
20,797-.7
52.8I
271.53
366.55
928.96
4,045.27
267.74
i 3,0.o5
3,649550.
6,550.8...........  r
$     7.21.
134.90
66.12
260.30
2.06
8,155.71
I.59
4.88.29
1.03
163.40
6.8o
4.42.08
5.I5
146.80
589.94
1,031.82
2.18
10.50
I I.04
28.14
36,187.o5
192.85.75
47.06
3      536.78
3     203.69


P


55.00
55.00


$    55.00
246.73
55.00..........




200,000.00.................... 32.10








24.65
11,950.27
500.00
72.88
5,012.47
350.00
1,392.50
816.97
2,557.54


342.11
7,570.22
500.00
55.00
292.51
5,012.47..........
512.0O
I,127.04
I I7.0(
1,387.0o
36,055. 1
805.o0
1,733.4
100.0


Amount
in Fund
June 30,'11
$    27.60
100.00
200,000.00
2,517.01
2,007.75.45
4.125.60
285.07
I43,494.37
271.56
130.69
I0.37
22.67
2,605.65
257.81
472.04
41.30
185.59
14,952 63
5   10,448 29
1   20,702.49
287.99
287.52
377.59
957.10
9    4,177.13
192.85
5       12.66
I    1,138.93
o..........
4,I86.3I
6,754.52








-








I








288


APPENDIX.


NAME


i


-,


M. I. Furnum   Bequest...
Marine Biological
Laboratory............
Morris Alumni Fund....
Music Hall Fund........
Motor Boat Biological
Station................
Mortar Board Loan
Scholarship............
Newton VanderVeer Loan
Fund.................
Oliver Scholarship.......
Observatory Library Book
Fund..................
Parthenon Freeze........
Palmer Memorial Free
Bed Fund..............
Parke, Davis & Co. Fund..
Peter White Fellowship
American History......
Peter White Classical
Fellowship.............
Peter White Med. Library
Phillips Scholarship Fundl
Pittsburgh Alumni Scholarship...................
Philo Parsons Fund......
Philosophy Fellowship, V.
Morris...............
Philosophy Library, V.
Morris.................
Prescott Memorial......
Refractor Fund, Observatory..................
Restoring Old Medical
Building..............
Saginaw Valley Alumni
Scholarship Fund......
Seth Harrison Fund......
Smith, Hinchman & Grylls
Scholar. in Architecture
Special Latin Fund.......
Students' Lecture Assoc...
Treadwell Free Bed Fund
Tappan Memorial........
Univ. Hosp. Trust Funid..
Univ. Hosp. Interest Acct.
Walter Crane Fund......:lWalter Crane Fund
Property Account......


I


Amount
in Fund
July I, 'IO
1,007.50
50.00
4,120.72
1,791.20
17.70..........
509.08
I 00.00
11.58
15,626. 6
50.00
i8o. 0
10.99
34.62
1,727.74
4.00
149.50
50.co
44.00
641.21


1




Interest or
Rentals
53.o8
256.64
42.25.12




Tncom1i 




__


Contributions
50.00
6o.oo




I


Expenditures
50.00
16.73..


15.42...............33.52
553.83
5.4I.33
1.03
384.84.12
4.50
3.28
i.80
29.54
1.6i
1,703.94.68
32.08
50.87.19
89,094.64
361.o6
4.63
525.59




35.49




100.00 
685.81..........




Amount
in Fund
June 30,'II
i,o60.58
50.00
4,377.36
1,833.45
I.o9
6o.co
524.50
II.91
36.oi
15,494.18
50.00
I85.51
11.32
35.65
2,009.20
4.12
154-00.




200.00
300.oo
145.00
6,ooo.oo
260.50
50.00
100.00
3,780.30














250.00
235.13
132.38
6,179.70






245.77
30,229.83
23.28
1,476.24
i.o8
4,992.70
I66.46
II,200.01




103.38








1,2;00.00
I00.00..........
37.55
89,52. I0
326.15
50.oo




112.15
I4.42
491.05
260.50
297.38
30,733.77
23.96
1,508.32
14.40
3,780.49
4,567.24
34.91
121.09
II,725.60...










I






APPENDIX.                                       289
Amount            Income                        Amount
NAME              in Fund    Interest or  Contribu-   Expendi-    in Fund
July i, 'io   Rentals      tions       tures    June 30,'1 
Warner Fund...........            5.74.I6....................           5.90
Williams Professorship...      5;52I.36     36507..........      50.00     5,83643
t\Williams Professorship
Property Account......      19,710.75,053.93.................... 20,764.68
Wm. Wilson Pharm. Fund.93............................             93
Woman's Gymnasium, P.
White................      11378         3.49.......117.27
Woman's Professorship..        6,657.77     7544....................          7,412.18
Webster Scholarship.....        I,o.89       90.70....................     1,201.59
Alumni Memorial Building        4,673.87      54.60..........    4,708.87       I9.60
Total.........         $313,980.35 $ 14 3,263.23 $248,574.40 $159,843.70 $545,974.28
$The care of the Williams Professorship Property Account and the Walter Crane
Property Account has been in the hands of Mr. George S. Field. A summary of the
report of Mr. Field is an appendix to the present report.  (See Appendix.)
INVESTMENT DISTRIBUTION OF GIFT AND TRUST FUNDS.
Cash in    Loans or
NAM;E                            Banks       Prop.       Total
Adams Book Fund                                     $     27.6................  $  27.60
A. M. Todd Prize Fund.................co.oo.........                    100.00
Arthur Hill Bequest for Auditorium..............    2C0,000.0.....   200,0,00.0
Alice Freeman Palmer Memorial...       917.01 $   i,6oo.oo   2,517.01
Allopathic Hospital Fund.                                  7.75     2,0o0.00    2,007.75
American S'chool at Rome........................45.45
A. B. Whittier Botany Fellowship...............         12!5.60   4,000.00    4,125.60
Ann Arbor Branch Collegiate Alumnml.......7                   285.00      285.07
Bates Professorship Fund......................        3,584.02  I39,910.35   143,494.37
Buhl Classical Fellowship........................   271.56..........       271.56
Buhl Law Library...................3............        I3.69.........         130.69
Ben Greet Dramatic Fund.......................           10.37.........           37
Binding Manuscript, Deuteronomy and Joshua....           22.67..........        22.67
Class of '94 Scholarship........................  5.65  2,500.      2,605.65
Class of '97 Scholarship........................  95.8I  62.00    257.81
Class of '98 Scholarship........................   99.02      273.02      472.04
Class of '99 Law Fellowship...............                 3.30       38.00       41.30
Class of '03 Memorial..........................         18559....85.59
Cole, Emma J., Fellowship in Botany............       3,552.63   11,4c00.oo  14,952.63
Coyl Library Fund.............................        2,5,48.29   7,900.00   10,448.29
Ford-M'esser Fund.............................          92497     19,777.52  20,702.49
Frederick Stearns & Co. Pharmacy Fellowship...          287.99..........  287.99
Gas Association Fellowship....................   287.52..........      287.52
Goethe Fund..................................      377.59..........       377.59
Good Government Club.........................           957.Io..........       957.Io
Homceopathic Hospital Trust Fund.............    4,177.13..........     4,I77.I3
Homceopathic Hospital Interest Account........          192.85..........      192.85




29o


APPENDIX.


-------
----— e


__




_-  -- 


N A MIr.e


Humanistic Series Mich. Studies Latin and Greek
Humanistic Series..............................
J. B. Angell Fund..............................
L. H. Stone Supplementary Loan Fund..........
M. J. Furnum Bequest........................
Marine Biological Laboratory...................
Morris Alumni Fund...........................
Music Hall Fund...............................
Motor Boat Biological Station..................
Mortar Board Loan Scholarship..................
Newton Vander Veer Loan Fund..............
Observatory Library Book Fund...............
Parthenon Freeze..............................
Palmer Memorial Free Bed Fund..............
Parke, Davis & Co. Fund......................
Peter White Fellowship American History.......
Peter White Classical Fellowship...............
Peter White Medical Library.................
Phillips Scholarship Fund......................
Pittsburgh Alumni Scholarship................
Philo Parsons Fund............................
Philosophy Library, V. MIorris..................
Prescott Memorial..............................
Refractor Fund Observatory.....................
Restoring Old Medical Building................
Saginaw Valley Alumni Scholarship Fund........
Seth Harrison Fund...........................
Special Latin Fund.............................
Students' Lecture Association..................
Treadwell Free Bed Fund.......................
Tappan Memorial...............................
University Hospital Trust Fund................
University Hospital Interest Account............
Walter Crane Fund............................
Warner Fund..................................
Williams Professorship Fund..................
Wm. Wilson Pharmacy Fund.................
Woman's Gymnasium, P. White................
Woman's Professorship Fund...................
Webster Scholarship...........................
Memorial Building............................
Total......................................


Cash in
Banks
I2.66
I,I38.93
I86.31
2,034.52
60.58
50.00
2,577.36
233.45
I.09
524.50
II.9I
36.o0
471.o7
50.00
I85.51
11.32
35.65
909.20
4.12
154.00oo
I12.15
14.42
491.05
260.50
2.38
4,233.77
23.96
273.62
14.40
3,780.49
4,567.24
34.91
I21.09
5.90
4,336.43.93
117.27
I,OI2.I8
31.59
19.60
$247,335.30


Loans or
Prop.
4,000.00
4,720.00
1,000.00
2I6,500.00
1,100.00
26,56O.oo
1,234-70..........
11,72:5.60
22,264.68
16,400.00
1,170.00
$298,638.098
$298,638.98




Tctal
I2.65
1,138.93
4, 86.31
6-754.52
I,o6o.58
50.00
4,377.36
1,833.45
I.09
6o.oo
524.50
11.91
36.o0
15,494.18
50.00
185.51
11.32
35.65
2,009.20
4.12
154.00
I 2.15
4. 42
491.05
260.50
297.38
30,733.77
23.96
I,508.32
14.40
3,780.49
4,567.24
34.91
I,846.60
5.90
26,601. I.93
117.27
17,412.I1
1,201.59
19.60
$545,974 28


--




I






$APPENDIX A.
WILLIAMS PROFESSORSHIP FUND (PROPERTY ACCOUNT).
This is in the hands of Mr. George S. Field for management, and the summary of
his report from June 15, 191o, to June 15, 191I, is as follows:
June 12, 1911-Cash on hand.......................$          3.00
Real Estate Mortgages.............. 19,255.00
Real Estate......i......... 1,5o6.68-$2o,764.68




APPENDIX.                                    291
Contra.
Total amount in valuation on hand at last report, June
I5,  I9IO........................................$19,7Io.75
Net gain in valuation for year ending June 12, I9II..  I,053.93-$20,764.68
tAPPENDIX B.
WALTER CRANE FUND (PROPERTY ACCOUNT).
This is in the hands of M/r. George S. Field for management, and the summary of
his report from June 15, I9Io, to June 15, I9II, is as follows:
June I2, I9I1-Cash on hand..............          $    99.
Land Contracts................6,878.90-$17,o77.95 $I7,077.95
Contra.
Total amount in valuation on hand at last report, June
I5, I9Io.................................... $20,907. 5
Less payments made by Field.................   4,85o.o00  $I6,057.15
Net gain in value for year ending June 12, I91......         $ I,020.80-$17,077.95
$I7,077.95
Subject to loan of..................................           5,352.35
Total Walter Crane Property Account..........            $11,725.60




NOVEMBER MEETING
UNIvIERSITY 0o1 M\IChIIGAN,
ANN ARBOR, NOVEMNBER I7, I9II.
The Board met in the Regents' Room     at Io:o5 A. IM.
Present, Regent Sawyer, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley,
Regent Grant, Regent Hanchett, and Superintendent V Wright.
Absent, Regent Hubbard, Regent Beal, and Regent Leland.
On motion of Regent Grant, the minutes of the meeting
of October 26 were approved, as submitted in proof to the
members of the Board, with the elimination of two names
from the list of persons to whom teachers' diplomas had been
granted, as originally recorded in the proof on page 274.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the minutes of the meeting of July last were corrected on page 212 to show that the
degree conferred upon "Lyle Dee Mc\Millan" was "Master
of Science" instead of "Master of Arts," and to read "Leigih
Jarvis Young" instead of "Earl Jarvis Young."
The report of the Executive Committee and the Secretary on hours to be kept by clerical employees of the University was presented, and on motion of Regent Sawyer, the
Board adopted the following resolution:
Resolved, That beginning January i, 1912, the standardc office hours in all the offices of the University shall le a
total of 42 hours per week, apportioned as follows: from
8 to 12 and from I:30 to 5 on every working day but Saturday; on Saturday, from 8 to 12:30. These hours may be reapportioned in the cases ywhere the special needs of any office
make it desirable, with the approval of the Auditing Board
(President, Secretary, and Treasurer), hut should not he
fixed at less than 42 hours per week. Stenographers and
clerks are expected to remain after closing hours as long as
their principals remain, unless excused. Where hours ogreater than those of the standard herein set are regularly or
commonly required, such fact will he taken into consideration by the Regents in fixing the annual or monthly compensation of such employee. One month's annual vacation




294


NOVEMBER MEETING, 191I


is to be allowed such employees who have served one year
or more satisfactorily, and who are to continue in the
University's service.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the title of Miss Beulah
B. Davis was made Secretary to the President of the University, and the title of Miss Georgia E. Jackson was made
Secretary to the Secretary of the University.
The President presented a report from Professor Van
Tyne stating that Professor Van Tyne and Dr. Parry had
inspected the collection of papers, pamphlets, and books on
the labor movement, socialism, and related subjects which
Mr. Jo Labadie, of Detroit, proposed to give to the University Library, in accordance with his original communication
presented to the Regents at the meeting of September 28.
(See page 243.) The terms of Mr. Labadie's gift include
the proper binding of the various papers and the housing of
the collection in such a manner as to make it available to
students in the subjects.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, this gift was accepted with
the thanks of the Board to Mr. Labadie for his generosity.
On motion of Regent Grant, the matter of rules defining
the basis upon which students shall be regarded as residents
of Michigan or as non-residents wa's referred to the Executive Committee and the Secretary for consideration and
report.
Regent Clements reported that the purchase of a satisfactory money chest could not be made within the allowance
of $500 made at the meeting of October 26.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board authorized an
expenditure of an additional amount of $400 ($900 in all),
for the purchase of a money chest, originally authorized at
the meeting of October 26, and the Board further requested
the Buildings and Grounds Committee to present an estimate
of the cost of partitioning the present vault for the use of
both the Secretary and the Treasurer and of equipping the
same with modern vault facilities.
Regent Bulkley reported that a forty-year lease had been
agreed upon, and signed, between the committee and Mr.
Edwin S. George, of Detroit, covering the so-called Woodward Avenue lot in Detroit, described as follows:




NOVEMBER MVIEETING, 191I


295


Lot "D" of the James A. Jones Resubdivision of lots i,
2, and 3 of the Ira Davis Subdivision of Park lot sixty (6o),
according to the plat thereof as recorded in Liber 7 of Plats,
page 49; and also lot twelve (I2) of the Subdivision of Park
lots sixty-one (6I) and sixty-two (62), according to the plat
thereof, as recorded in Liber I of Plats, page 128, Wayne
County, Registry.
Regent Bulkley presented to the Board the formal lease,
which he had prepared, and on his motion the following
resolution was adopted by the Regents:
Resolved, That the proposed lease of the Woodward
Ave. lot be referred to Profes'sor Bunker, the attorney of the
Board, and that if he finds such lease in proper form, the
President and Secretary be instructed to sign the lease.
The President gave notice of the appointment of the
following Committee on the future architectural development
of the Campus:
Regents Beal, Clements, and Grant, and
Professors Kelsey, Lorch, and H. C. Adams.
Regent Bulkley reported informally on the progress of
the contest against the will of the late Octavia Bates, and
the employment of Messrs. Crane and Hershey, lawyers of
Baltimore, as suggested by Regent Bulkley, was authorized
upon motion of Regent Clements.
On motion of Regent Clements, an expense not to exceed $Ioo was authorized for repairing, plastering, and
redecorating the east seminary rooms in the General Library.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board requested the
Committee on the Preservation of the Old Medical Building
to report promptly on the Committee's plans and prospects,
as the building is believed to be in a dangerous condition.
On motion of Regent Clements, the purchase of new
fire hose interchangeable with the city fire hose was authorized at an expense not to exceed $500.
On motion of Regent Grant, the expense voucher of
Regent Hubbard for February, I9II, amounting to $43.40,
was approved by the Board.




296


NOVEMBER MEETING, I9II


Professors Glover and Effinger, Instructor Love, and
Mr. E. P. Grierson, Secretary and Treasurer of the Students' Lecture Association, appeared before the Board, and
Professor Glover and Mr. Grierson made statements of the
prospects of the Association.
At this point, the Board took a recess for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 3:oo P. M., the same members
being present as at the morning session.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the degree of Doctor of
Medicine was conferred upon Lawrence A. Woodlocke, in
accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the
Homoeopathic Medical College.
The President presented considerable correspondence
between Mr.R. C. Allen, Director of the State Geological and
Biological Survey, and Professor A. H. White, relative to
possible co-operation by the University with the Survey in
the testing of various Michigan clays. On motion of Regent
Bulkley, this matter was referred to the Executive Committee for consideration and report, with recommendation,
at the next meeting of the Board.
The Secretary presented the bill of Mr. Henry M. Campbell, of Detroit, for legal services in a suit of the Regents
vs. the Auditor General, in the Supreme Court. This bill,
amounting to $500 plus expenses $20.55, was ordered paid
on a call vote, Regent Bulkley not voting.
On motion of Regent Grant, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Law,
the degree of LL.B. was conferred upon the following:
Leon Earl Garvin
Clarence Arlington Irwin
Allen Burton Nicholas, as of the class of I907.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board requested Superintendent Wright to investigate and report on the probable
value of certain Canadian lands, title to which is held by
the University.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 19ir


297


The President presented the report of the Executive
Committee on matters referred at the meeting of October
26, as follows:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for November
I7, I9II:
The President of the University having made investigations in regard to a request of Professor F. N. Scott for an
additional instructor in Rhetoric at a salary of $I200, and a
request of Professor W. W. Beman for an additional assistant in Mathematics at a salary of $3o0, and a request of
Professor A. G. Canfield for an additional assistant in Romance Languages at a salary of $30o, and having found and
reported to us that a $9oo instructor in Rhetoric is needed
for Professor Scott, and a $303 assistant for Professor
Beman, and a $I50 assistant for Professor Canfield, these
appointments have been duly made in accordance with the
authority conferred upon the Executive Committee at the
last meeting of the Board.
The Regents at the last meeting having referred to
the President the request of Professor Kelsey for the appointment of Mr. Gilbert H. Taylor as Assistant in Latin at
a salary of $350, in addition to the stipend cf his fellowship, and having authorized the Executive Committee to
make the appointment if such assistant is found necessary,
the Committee begs leave to report that the President, after
investigation, advises that such appointment should not be
made.
In the matter of the appointment of Mr. George M.
Curtis as Assistant in Zoology for the first semester of the
current year, at the salary of $200 for the semester, the
President having reported favorably, the appointment has
been made by the Committee.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
WALTER H. SAWYER,
H. B. HUTCHINS,
Executive Committee.
Date, Nov. 7, I9II.
On motion of Regent Grant, the report was accepted and
adopted.




298


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1911


The Secretary presented a letter from Professor Jacob
Reighard inventorying property belonging to the University,
destroyed by fire at the Biological Station at Douglas Lake
on August I, I9II, and also inventorying certain personal
property of Professor Reighard, destroyed by fire at the
same time. Professor Reighard stated that as some of his
personal property was taken to the Biological Station for
University use, i. e., that had he not taken his personal property, the University would presumably have supplied such
articles, he might properly be reimbursed for the loss of
such articles. The total inventory of the University property amounted to $6o.o6; of Professor Reighard's personal
property, $148.I1. On motion of Regent Grant, this communication was referred to Regents Clements, Bulkley, and
Sawyer for consideration.
Regent Sawyer presented a request from Th le Mlichligan
Daily for an appropriation under which the Daily might be
sent to high schools in the state. No action was taken on
this communication for this year, but it was directed that
The Michigan Daily be informed that such a request might
be presented to the Budget Committee for next year.
A communication was presented from Dean Jordan suggesting the desirability of lectures before the women students of the University on the subject of Sex or Social Hygiene. This communication was referred to a committee
consisting of the President, Dean Vaughan, and Dean Jordan, to report to the Board more definitely as to probable
expense, etc.
On motion of Regent Grant, following the recommendation of Dean Cooley, MXr. Sidney M. Schott, B.Ch.E., was
appointed, for the present University year, as holder of the
Acme White Lead and Color Works Fellowship, recently
established, with a stipend of $500.
On motion of Regent Grant, the request of Dean Cooley
for an increase in the labor payroll allowance of the engineering shops from $38 per day to $42.25 per (lay, was referred to the President for report.
On motion of Regent Grant, the request of Mr. Charles
A. Lunn for a refund of a portion of his annual fee, for the
reason that he is taking but three hours' work, was denied.
Regent Sawyer presented the request of Professor Henry




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1911


299


C. Adams for an additional instructor in the department of
Political Economy, due to the increase in the number of
students, and on his motion, such additional instructor was
allowed at the rate of $9oo per year from the date of his
appointment.
Regent Grant presented the following communication
from the Secretary, and on motion, the appointments therein
contained were confirmed and approved:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for November 17,
I9II:
The following appointments have been made to positions
for which compensation is provided in the budget and are
herewith transmitted as usual for your confirmation and
for record.
Mr. WV. P. Wood, Teaching Assistant in Organic
Chemistry for the first semester only, at the salary of
$I5o for the semester. This is the assistantship authorized
by the Regents at the meeting of October 26, to instruct
Homoeopathic Medical College students.
Mr. Woodbridge Metcalf, A.B., Assistant in Botany,
appointment to date from October 9, 1911, at a salary of
$300 for the year. The budget actually provides $Iooo for
the salary of an instructor, Mr. C. E. Temple, who resigned,
but the department thinks that this work can be carried on
satisfactorily with the assistance of Mr. Metcalf at the
salary of $300.
Mr. H. F. Lindsey, Assistant in Forestry, for the year
I9II-I912, at $Ioo.
Mr. C. P. Cronk, Assistant in Forestry, for the year
I9II-I9I2, at $c10.
Mr. L. E. Daniels, Assistant in Forestry, for the year
19II-I912, at $Ico.
Mr. F. G. Clark, Assistant in Forestry, for the year
I9II-I912, at $Ioo.
Mr. J. H. Pottinger, Assistant in Forestry, for the year
19II-I912, at $ioo.
SHIRLEY W. SM.ITH.
Date, November 9, I9II.
On motion of Regent Grant, Mr. Frank F. Reed, of
Chicago, was appointed non-resident lecturer in the law of
Copyrights and Trade-marks in the Department of Law, for




3oo


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1911


the year I9II-I912, at the salary of $200. This allowance
is an addition to the budget.
Regent Clements presented the following communication
from the Acting Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds,
and on motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized
the expenditure of the sum of $8893.75 from      the General
Fund, in accordance with Mr. Marks's estimate:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for Nov. 17, I9II:
Report on Estimated Cost of Improvements in Hospital
Kitchen:
As per your instructions I have prepared an estimate
of the probable cost of improving the kitchen and food
service in the University Hospital, making the kitchen
structurally more sanitary and especially designed to exclude, as far as possible, vermin and flies.
I have consulted the President and members of the
Medical Faculty, particularly interested in the Hospital,
the Superintendent of the Hospital, and a representative
of one of the largest concerns dealing in hospital and hotel
kitchen supplies in the country.
The plans upon which this estimate is based cover the
remodeling of the space now occupied by the General
Kitchen, Servants' Dining Room, Store Room, Diet Kitchen,
and adjacent halls, and Ward Serving Rooms. Mr. Draper,
Superintendent of the Hospital, suggested that a separate
building be built north of the Bakery and west of the
Palmer Ward for use as a kitchen. I do not think this suggestion a very good one because it would tend to further
scatter the buildings of an already badly scattered plant.
Mr. Draper also suggested the installation of a bath
and toilet for the use of employees engaged in the kitchen.
I have not included this in my estimate because I believe that
this matter should be taken up in connection with quarters
for domestic help.  It does not seem   to me that a
bath room  is one of the adjuncts of a kitchen.  Dean
Vaughan suggested that the matter of a tunnel from
the hospital kitchen to the Eye and Ear Ward, making a more direct route, should be considered at this
time. This matter was under consideration at the time
the Eye and Ear Ward was built, but it seemed more
advisable at that time to connect the building with the
rest of the Hospital by an out-of-door corridor.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 19pI


301


The total estimated cost of these improvements
is $8893.75, distributed as follows:
FLooR.-Tearing out of old concrete floors and
putting in re-enforced concrete slab supported on
steel beams and laying white 6" x 6" encaustic tile
floor, including 4." base, and all necessary labor
connected  therewith...............................$2882.50
WALLS.-Installation  of suspended fireproof
ceiling, furring of side walls, building necessary
brick walls, plastering of walls and ceiling, including painting and enameling of walls and ceiling III6.25
LIGHTING AND PI,LU BING.-Electric lighting,
plumbing (exclusive of fixtures), changing of steam
pipes, sewer connection, ventilation including necessary hoods and piping connected therewith........ 1225.00
KITCHEN EQuIPMENNT.-Equipment in the general
kitchen proper, consisting of cook's talles, 2 four
bushel vegetable cookers, I fifty gallon kettle, steam
tables, pan sink, vegetable sink, coal cart, vegetable
table, 2 thirty-five gallon urns, potato masher, meat
grinder, steam table for serving room, cook's truck,
etc., estimated by Mr. Kaiser of John Van Range
C o.,  to   cost........................................  1750.o
WARD EQUIPMIENNT.-Equipment necessary in
connection with serving food in the wards consisting of 7 ward serving tables, 7 food carts, refrigerators, pot sink, one diet kitchen table, one
steam table for diet kitchen, one dishwasher, one
portable table, one dish sterilizer, one plate warmer,
etc..............................................  1495.
REPAIRS T0 REFRIGERATOR.-The work contelnplated in the present refrigerator consists of lining
the walls and ceiling of the storage compartments
with metal lath covered with cement mortar, painted
and enameled, and laying a cement floor in the
balance of the refrigerator. This repair will not
be a permanent one, but in view of the fact that a
general change in the refrigerator system at the hospital will probably be made after the New Power
Plant is done, further expense along this line would
be  a  waste  at this  time............................  425.0o
$8893.75




302


NOVEMBER MEETING, 191I


The Medical and Buildings and Grounds Committees are familiar with the necessity and nature of
these improvements, the details of which have been
arranged under their direction. The items of this
estimate and the plans from  which it has been
made are on file in the office of the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds. I will be pleased
to explain them in detail if desired by the Board.
Respectfully submitted,
JArs. H. h MARKS.
Date, Nov. Io, 19I1.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board allowed the
sum of $IIo- for placing an additional slop sink in the Eye
and Ear Ward and for the transfer of another such sink to
a more convenient location, and for the replacement with an
ordinary sink of the sink thus moved.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Buildings and Grounds
Committee was authorized to replace the floor in the serving
room at the University HIospital, in accordance with the request of Superintendent Draper.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was passed:
Resolved, That the Purchasing Department of the
University be authorized to purchase for the Thanksgiving dinner at the University Hospital and also for the Christmas dinner at the University Hospital,the following articles:
Candy, cluster raisins, and mixed nuts, at a cost not to
exceed $8.75 for each occasion.
The annual report of the Board in Control of Athletics
was presented over the signature of Professor Whitney,
Chairman. On motion of Regent Grant, this report was received and placed on file, and its recommendations were referred to the Committee on Athletics for consideration in
conference with the Board in Control of Athletics, following
which the Committee on Athletics is requested to report its
recommendations to the Regents.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, following the request of
Professor Streeter, approved by Dean Vaughan, the salary




NOVEMBER MEETING, 91    0 II


303


of Dr. Rollo E. McCotter, Instructor in Anatomy, was made
$I300 per year for this year only, with the understanding
that he should perform, in addition to his regular duties, the
duties originally laid upon Mr. H. R. Hartman, half-time
assistant, who on account of accident and illness has been
unable to serve.
Regent Clements reported that the Buildings and Grounds
Committee and the Finance Committee had agreed upon a
contract with Mr. James L. Stuart, of Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, covering the structural steel construction, mason
work, cut stone work, miscellaneous iron work, ornamental
iron work, carpentry and. joinery work, painting, glazing,
roofing and sheet metal work, marble, interior stone and
terrazzo work, metal furring, lathing and plastering and
plumbing for the construction of the Hill Memorial Auditorium, in accordance with the plans and specifications of
Mr. Albert Kahn, Job 494, including certain additional
agreed items, at a total figure of $203,425, which contract,
under the resolution of the Regents appearing on page 263,
the President and Secretary are to sign.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the matters placed before
the Board at the morning session by the representatives of
the Students' Lecture Association were referred to the
Executive Committee for investigation and report.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Board adopted the
following resolution:
Resolved, That the Treasurer's Report for the year
ending June 30, 1911, as accepted July 20 (see page I98),
and as appearing in the Proceedings (see pages 279-29I inclusive), be adopted as the report of the Regents to the
Governor.
All the above actions, with the exception of the one instance specified, were by unanimous vote.
On motion the Board adjourned to 10 o'clock, A. M.,
December 15, I9II.
SHIRLEY W. SMITH,
Secretary.




DECEMBER MEETING
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, 1
ANN ARBOR, December 15, I9II. f
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io o'clock A. M.
Present, Regent Hanchett, Regent Grant, Regent Bulkley,
Regent Clements, Regent Hubbard, Regent Sawyer, and
Regent Beal. Absent, Regent Leland and Superintendent
Wright.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of November 17 were approved as submitted in proof,
with the correction suggested by Regent Beal on page 299
to show that the reason for the additional instructor in Political Economy was an increase in the number of students.
On motion of Regent Grant, page I98 of the Regents'
Proceedings, meeting of July 20, was corrected to show that
the Treasurer's Report was for the year I9IO-I9II instead
for the year I9I I-I912 as stated.
Regent Hubbard presented for himself and Regent Beal
the following report upon the Biological Station. This report was, on motion of Regent Sawyer, accepted by the
Board.
Supplementing our preliminary report made to the Board
in July, your Committee submit the following report and
recommendations which are based on:
I. Communication of Dean Cooley, No. 4, June meeting, I9II.
2. Report of Prof. Reighard, Director of Biological
Station, dated Oct. 26, I9II.
3. Personal observations.
We believe that the program of work at the Station
might well be amplified to include, so far as practicable,
preparation for, and acquaintance with the ordinary phases
of life in the woods, and the extraction of the maximum good
from camp life..  We instance among other things personal




306


DECEMBER M1EETING, I9 I


equipment, portable camp outfits, amount of food rations,transportation of food, camp hygiene, precautions against accident, and first aid to the wounded; also the use of the compass and the recognition and tracing of lines of the linear
survey, or in other words, the ability to locate oneself.
These things are all of value to those whose professional
life will lead them into the field. The feature of popular
lectures inaugurated at the Station, deserves coimmenda-,tion. Possibly some of the above topics might be treated
under this head. We noticed that some of the vegetation
near the Station had been destroyed by insects. Such occurrences should be noted, and an effort made to identify the
insect. Specifically we recommend:
(I.) That a member of the Medical Department should
be attached to the staff, one of whose duties should be to
give instructions on first aid to the injured. A doctor's fee
of say $2, should be paid by each member of the class. Any
further compensation to the doctor, if necessary, to be paid
by the University.
(2.) The Camp being now supplied with good drinking water from a well, and with a windmill and tank for lake
water, no further expenditure at this time appears to be necessary for water.
(3.) The purchase of a motor boat, larger than the one
now used by the biological students, would probably increase
the efficiency of the engineering work, and we recommend an
appropriation not to exceed five hundred dollars, for that
purpose.
(4.) The students now manage and provide for their
commissary department in rotation by committees. Any additions to the mess outfit may be provided out of the funds
remaining under the last appropriation, but the students
should pay a fee of say $2, each, for the maintenance of said
outfit.
(5.) Burt Lake having been examined and found less favorable for a permanent station than Douglas Lake, an examination of other localities should be made during the coming
season, under the direction of Dean Cooley, and Dean Effinger, and for a permanent location that shall combine, so far
as possible, the advantages requisite for a permanent camp
site. Until after the selection of such site and confirmation
by this Board, no permanent improvements should be made
at Douglas Lake involving any considerable sum of money.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1911


307


(6.) We approve the recommendation of the addition to
the staff of two Research assistants with a compensation not
to exceed $Ioo, each, as made under suggestion, Section 4,
page 24, of Prof. Reighard's report.
(7.) We approve the appointment of a Woman's Dean
at a suitable compensation.
(8.) We recommend that the Directors of the Biological and Engineering Camps respectively, have summary
authority over all students under their charge.
(9.) We recommend that tent equipment including a
laboratory tent, be provided for the housing of the instructors and students.
(Io.) We recommend that Visiting Workers be admitted to all the privileges of students, and subject to the same
discipline, provided they register seasonably, are approved by
the directors, and pay their part of the common expense.
The consideration of other matters, such as a permanent place of storage for University property, should await
the results of investigations above suggested. We believe that
there are some good reasons against the substitution of
Grape Vine Point for the present location, which it is not
now necessary to discuss.
Respectfully submitted,
L. L. HUBBARD,
J. E. BEAL.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Buildings and
Grounds Committee were given authority to bring in at the
next meeting of the Board a tentative sketch and estimate
of cost for shops, storehouse and stables, such sketch and
estimate to be made up without cost for outside assistance by
the Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds.
Regent Clements reported informally and at some length
upon considerations concerning the site of the proposed Heating Plant and presented a communication from Dean Cooley
upon the subject.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board voted that the
Buildings and Grounds Committee should have power to
incur necessary expense in securing further data and opinions on the relative advantages of possible sites for the power
house.
The Secretary read the following report of the Executive
Committee, and on motion uf Regent Grant, the report was
accepted and the faculty appointments were confirmed:



308           DECEMBER       MEETING, 1911
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for December 15, I9II:
Your Executive Committee begs leave to report as
follows:
At the November meeting of the Board of Regents, an
additional assistant in Mathemnatcs, at the salary of $300,
was allowed to Professor W. W. Beman. Professor Beman's
request was for two assistants at $3o0 each, and two should
have been allowed. Therefore, your Executive Committee,
since the last meeting, has appointed the additional assistant
at the salary named, the appointment to date from October
I6.
At the last meeting of the Board, an additional instructor in Rhetoric, at the salary of $9oo, was allowed, but owing
to an oversight the name of the instructor was not mentioned
in the communication. Therefore your Executive Committee has appointed to this instructorship Mr. Burton C. Grim
for the usual term.
At the last meeting of the Board, an additional instructor
in the department of Political Economy was authorized at
$9o0 per year. No name was at that time suggested. Your
Executive Committee has appointed Mr. D. R. Scott to this
instructorship for the usual term.
At a meeting of your Committee held December 5, the
following resolution was passed:
Whereas, The patrons of husbandry residing near Ann
Arbor and the citizens of Ann Arbor are extending an invitation to the Michigan State Grange to hold the annual
meeting of the Grange in Ann Arbor in December, 1912,
and
Whereas, We believe it is to the mutual advantage of the
University and the people of the State that the people should
become better acquainted with their University, and
Whereas, The State Grange represents one of the largest
and most influential classes of the population of the State,
Therefore, Be It Resolved, That we, the Executive
Committee of the Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan, do hereby extend to the State Grange most cordial
and hearty invitation to make Ann Arbor the place of meeting in 1912, and that we extend to the State Grange our assurance that everything possible will be done by the University to make the visit to Ann Arbor pleasant and profitable in the way of acquainting the Grange with the University, its work, ideals, and possibilities.




DECEMBER MEETING, I9pI


309


This action was taken by the Committee as it was
necessary to extend an invitation to the Grange at its annual meeting, which was to take place before the present
meeting of the Board.
Your Committee also allowed the expenses, to the
extent of $50, of Professor Emil Lorch to the Conference
of the Architectural Schools of the country recently held
in Boston.
The matter of analyses of clay for the State Geological
Survey having been referred to the Executive Committee, it
begs leave to report that after a full investigation it reconmends that the University of Michigan make for the Director
of the State Geological Survey such tests of clay as are requested by him, at net cost, to be paid by the survey; that
the University leave with the Director of the Survey the responsibility of determining whether tests for private parties
can properly be made by the University; that the Board authorize the appointment of an assistant without salary in the
department of Chemical Engineering, to be paid from the
funds received from the tests of such clays, and that the work
of testing be under the direction of Professor Alfred H.
White.
It having been represented to the Board of Regents that
the Students' Lecture Association has in years past contributed considerable sums directly to the University and to university interests and activities and that the Association, on
account of other attractions that have come into the field, has
for some time been conducted at a loss, and that in order to
carry out the contracts of the present year and pay the just
obligations of the Association the sum of $I400 will probably
be needed, and the whole matter having been referred to the
Executive Committee for investigation and report, your
Committee begs leave to say that the situation has been carefully investigated and that the Committee is of the opinion
that in view of what the Lecture Association has done for the
University and its interests and of the further fact that under
present conditions it will not be wise for it to continue in
the field, the Board should set aside the sum of $1400 out of
which the just obligations of the Association should be
paid, the obligations, before payment, to be passed upon and
audited by the Auditing Board.  Respectfully submitted,
JUNIUS E. BEAL.
W. H. SAWYER
H. B. HUT1CHINS




31o


DECEMBER MEETING, Ir9_


On motion of Regent Hubbard, the action of the Executive Committee in extending an invitation to the Michigan
State Grange was approved and confirmed.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board approved the
allowance of traveling expenses of Professor Lorch in an
amount not in excess of $50 for the purpose stated.
On motion of Regent Grant, the Board adopted the recommendation of the Executive Committee relative to analyses of clay, with the understanding that the State Geologist
should assume the responsibility of determining, and should
so certify to the University, what analyses of clay requested
by private parties are in his judgment necessary to further
the work of the Geological Survey.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board adopted the
recommendation of the Executive Committee with respect to
the Students' Lecture Association, with the understanding
that $ioo out of this $I,400 would be paid to Mr. Clyde E.
Love for his services to the S. L. A. during the past three
years.
Regent Clements reported informally regarding his efforts to secure reimbursement to the University for the loss
by fire in the Old Medical Building and at the Biological
Station. On motion of Regent Clements, this matter was
referred to Regent Bulkley with the request and authority to
take such action as he should deem best.
On motion the Board took a recess for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
The Board reassembled at 2:I5, the same members being
present as at the morning session.
Regent Beal reported for the Regents' Committee on
Athletics with respect to the proposal to charge a uniform
fee payable by all students with a view to encourage the participation by all students in outdoor athletics. After considerable discussion, on motion of Regent Grant, the Board
voted to refer the matter back to the Regents' Committee on
Athletics and the University Board in Control of Athletics
for a report working out a plan in detail. Regent Beal voted
no on this motion.




DECEMBER MEETING, 19I 


3 r


The Secretary read a letter from Superintendent Wright
stating that he had acquired certain information concerning
the Canadian lands owned by the. University and was of
the opinion that while the lands had no present value, they
might have a future mineral value and advising that the Uniersity should hold the land.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Secretary was directed
to ascertain and report the amount of taxes upon the land.
The President reported that after a conference with
Dean Cooley and Professor Miggett, he had concluded to
recommend that the payroll of the engineering shops
for day labor should be fixed for the remainder of the
current year at $40 per day as a limit instead of $38 per day
as at presentand that the question of making the limit more
should be referred to the Budget Committee for consideration at the time of making up the next annual budget.
On. motion of Regent Grant, this report was adopted by
the Board.
On motion of Regent Clements, the President and the
Secretary were authorized to secure title to the so-called
York property at $5,800, the payment to be made out of the
General Fund. By the same motion, the matter of additional payment covering attorney's fees and other costs, should
such additional payment be found necessary, was referred to
Regent Bulkley and Professor Bunker with power to take
such action as they might think best.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board granted the use
of the large room in the basement of the Alumni M\emorial
Hall for the purposes of a Faculty Club.
The President nominated Dean Cooley to succeed Professor Gardner S. Williams, resigned, as a member of the Senate Committee on University Sanitation. On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board confirmed this nomination.
The President presented a further communication from
Dean Cooley relative to the petition of Mr. Charles A. Lunn
denied by the Regents at the November meeting. (See page
298) On motion of Regent Grant, the previous action of
the Regents was rescinded and the Secretary was instructed
to refund one-half of the annual fee to Mr. Lunn in accordance with the regular rule of the University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board requested Re



312


DECEMlfBER MEETING, I9II


gent Bulkley to investigate and report to the Regents the
status at present of the Williams Professorship Fund. Regent Bulkley was requested to include with his report a
recommendation to the Budget Committee relative to the use
of this fund.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the matter of protecting
the contents of the Art Gallery against theft or other depredation was referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee
with instructions to provide such protection as might be
found necessary.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, $I,ooo was added to the
General Catalogue of Alumni account, with the understanding that such further appropriation as might be needed to
complete the work in accordance with the original plan, but
with such increased number of copies as additional subscriptions might require, would be made in due course.
The President presented a letter from Governor Osborn,
enclosing a recommendation from the annual report of the
Michigan State Board of Examiners in Optometry that there
should be established a course in Optometry in the University. On motion of Regent Sawyer, this recommendation
was referred to the faculties of the Department of M:edicine
and Surgery and of the Homoeopathic Medical College for
their consideration.
On motion of Regent Grant, the bill of Architect Albert
Kahn for services on the Hill Memorial Auditorium for
$5,000 was allowed and ordered paid from the accumulated
interest on the Hill Memorial Auditorium Fund.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Miss Julia Landwehr was
appointed clerk and stenographer in the President's office at
the salary of $50 per month to date from December I, 1911,
this expense to be charged against the University Extension
Lectures Fund.
On motion of Regent Clements, the following resolution was adopted:Resolved, That the Purchasing Department of the University be authorized to purchase a desk, chair, and small
rug for the President's office, at a cost not to exceed $35.
The President presented the following report of the comnmittee appointed to study the situation in the Graduate




DECEMBER MEETING, i9.rI


313


School, and on motion of Regent Beal, this report was adopted by the Board.
December 15, I9II.
To the Honorable Board of Regents
of the University of Michigan.
Gentlemen:
The Committee appointed to study the situation in the
Graduate School and, if found necessary, to report a plan
for the organization, begs leave to report and to recommend
as follows:I. That a Graduate Department be established in the
University.
2. That a Dean for this Department be appointed by the
Honorable Board of Regents on the recommendation of the
President.
3. That the management of the Department be vested
in an Executive Board of seven, together with the President
and the Dean of the Department; that this Board be appointed by the Honorable Board of Regents on the nomination of
the President and the Dean; that the term of office on the
Board be seven years, one member to retire each year.
Respectfully,
V. C. VAUGHAN.
J. O. REED.
F. N. SCOTT.
R. M. WENLY.
A. ZIwtrT.
HI. B. HUTCHINS.
W. H. SAWYER.
J. E. BEAL.
L.. HUBBARD.
Regent Sawyer presented the following communication,
which was on his motion adopted by the Board.
Dec. I4, I9II.
To the Honorable Boad of Regents.
Gentlemen:
It is well known that the management of University
Hospital has not been satisfactory. It is not necessary to go
into the causes, but it is desirable that an attempt should
be made to better the conditions prevailing in the Hospital.
The Medical Faculty is unanimously of the opinion that all
medical affairs in the Hospital should be under medical di



314           DECEMiBER      MEETTING, I911
rection, and I am instructed by the Faculty to make of your
Honorable Body the following requests:
I. That the Medical Faculty annually nominate and the
Regents appoint from the members of the Medical Faculty a
committee, to be known as the Hospital Committee. This
Committee shall consist of five members, together with the
Dean, who shall, ex-officio, be Chairman of the Committee.
This Committee shall select one of its members, to be known
as the Medical Director of the Hospital, who shall be the cx —
ecutive officer of the Committee, and who shall have direct
charge of all medical affairs in the Hospital. This Committee should meet at least once a month during the college
year, and at such other times as it may be called by the
Chairman.
2. It shall le the duty of this Committee to take entire
charge of the Training School for Nurses, to formulate
rules for admission to the school, for the selection of nurses,
for their discipline, for their instruction, all such rules to
be submitted to and acted upon by the Board of Regents.
3. It shall be the duty of the Hospital Committee to
nominate for appointment by the Board of Regents, the
House Physician, and all Internes, to formulate rules and
regulations, defining the duties, regulating the conduct, etc.,
of the House Physician, and the Internes. All of these rules
and regulations are to be submitted to the Board of Regents
for their approval.
4. It shall be the duty of the Hospital Committee to
formulate rules for the sanitation of the Hospital and its
surroundings, to have general supervision over the diet of
patients and medical employees, nurses in the Hospital, and
to see that the food is properly and hygienically distributed,
and, in short, to have charge, under such rules and regtulations as may be approved by the Board of Regents, of all
medical and sanitary matters in the Hospital.
5. It shall be the duty of the Hospital Committee and
the Superintendent of the Hospital to provide a scale of
charges for medicine and medical and surgical appliances, such
to be submitted for approval to the Board of Regents.
6. The Hospital Committee shall make an annual report
to the Board of Regents upon needed changes, improvements, extensions, etc., in the Hospital.
7. The Executive Officer of this Committee, known as
the Medical Director of the Hospital, shall enforce all rules
and regulations promulgated by the Committee and approved Ly the Board of Regents.




DECEMBER MEETING, 191I


315


8. The Hospital Committee shall formulate rules and
regulations for the conduct of students in the Hospital, and
the Medical Director shall enforce such rules and regulations.
9. A copy of all formal communications between the
Superintendent and the Medical Director shall be sent to the
Dean.
IO. It is asked that these provisions go into effect Feb.
I, 1912.                  Respectfully submitted,
V. C. VAUGHAN.
Regent Bulkley reported a real      estate  commission
amounting to $I,500 as due to Mr. Ernest C. Smoots, of Detroit, who negotiated the lease with Mr. Edwin S. George
for what is known as the Woodward Avenue property. The
Board authorized the payment of this sum out of the first
rental to be received on the lease.
On Regent Bulkley's motion also, the Board directed the
payment to the Union Trust Company, of Detroit, of the sum
of $50 for that Company's abstract of the property leased to
Mr. George. This payment is likewise to be made out of
rentals received on the lease.
Regent Grant presented for record the following letter
addressed to Dean Bates:
State of New York
Education Department
Albany
Dec. 13, I911.
Dean Henry M. Bates,
Department of Law,
University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Dear Sir:This is to inform you that at the meeting of the Board of
Regents held December 7, the department of law of the University of Michigan was registered as an approved school of
law.                          Yours truly,
A. S. DOWNING,
First Assistant Commissioner of Education.
On motion of Regent Beal, authority was given to the
Buildings and Grounds Committee to employ an additional
night watchman.




316


DECEMBER MEETING, 191 


On motion of Regent Grant, it was voted that when the
Regents adjourned, adjournment should be to January 26,
I912.
Regents Grant and Clements were excused.
Dean Effinger, of the Summer Session, appeared for
consideration of the budget of the Summer Session of I912.
Regent Hubbard presented a request from the Director of
the Biological Station for additional equipment for the session of I912. On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board allowed $500 for the purchase of a launch at the Biological
Station, $I8o for three additional tents, and $45 for altering
and repairing nine tents.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board voted that the
salary roll of the Biological Station for 1912 should be the
same as in I911, namely, $I,410 with $200. added for research
assistance and $50 added for a women's dean, making $I,660
in all. The budget for current expense at the Biological Station is yet to be determined.
After discussion with Dean Effinger, on motion of Regent Sawyer, the Board fixed the budget of the Summer Session for I912, exclusive of the Biological Station, at the sum
of $46,oII. The detailed budget appears as an appendix to
the proceedings. (See page 321.)
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal and the Secretary were authorized to consider bids for the University
printing for one, two, or three years, and to make contract as
may be deemed advantageous.
Regent Hubbard reported a communication from Dean
Cooley stating that Mr. A. E. White, Instructor in Chemical
Engineering, desired to know whether his services would be
required during I912-I9I3 in order that he might be guided
in the acceptance or declination of a position tendered him at
present. On motion of Regent Hubbard, the Board expressed itself to the effect that Mr. White's services would be retained if Dr. Zimmerschied should not return to the department of Chemical Engineering.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation
of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, degrees were conferred as follows:




DECEMBER MEETING, 1911


317


BACHELOR QI ARTS.
Kelts C. Baker.            Frederick Harris Miller.
Solomon Blumrosen.         Robert Treadwell Moreland.
Clifford Vance Brown.      Nina Lydia Ransom.
Percy James Donovan.       Arthur Leon Smith.
Myron Donald Knapp.        Harold Frederick Stock.
John James McElree, A.B., Westminster College.
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
Lewis Ernest Daniels.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, following the recommendation of Dean Hinsdale, the certificates of graduation
from the Homeopathic Hospital Training School for Nurses
were conferred upon
Miss Mabelle V. Matthews.  Miss Hazel Leone Hilton.
Miss Mabel Evelyn Ruby.    Miss Mary Wilson Morgan.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the request of Dean
Cooley for leave of absence for Professor W. L. Miggett
from January 2 to January 28, in order that Professor Miggett might visit engineering shops at eastern colleges and
technical schools, was granted.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Engineering,
degrees were conferred as follows:BACHELOR Or SCIENCE IN ENGINEERING.
Harold Ira Haskins.
BACHELOR Of ClVIL ENGINEERING.
Marion Wilbur Beach.
BACHELOR OT ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
Albert Francis Morairty.
BACHELOR OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING.
Charles Albert Lunn.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, teachers' diplomas were conferred upon
George Rebec, Ph.D.
Clifford Vance Brown.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation
of Professor Henry C. Adams, Mr. Owen Ely was appointed Fellow in Transportation, vice Mr. A. M. Fox, who did




3i8


DECEMBER MEETING, I91I


not accept the appointment tendered him. Mr. Ely's appointment is to date from December I and stipend for the remainder of the University year is to be $400.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, $2Io was added to the
salary roll of the General Library to provide a salary of $30
per month for an assistant in charge of the newly opened
Reading Room in the Alumni Memorial Hall. This service
and salary extend from December I, I911 to July I, I912.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Board granted leave of
absence to Professor C. O. Davis, of the department of Education, during January and such part of February as he
might require to complete the work of assisting in making
an expert examination of the high schools of the City of New
York. It is understood that Dr. Davis's work in the department of Education is to be taken care of by his colleagues
during his absence without additional expense to the University.
Regent Beal presented the following communication from
Professor Henry C. Adams:To the Honorable Board of Regents:Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for December Ijth,
1911.
May I request the appointment, as Lecturer, in the
Course of Transportation, of the following gentlemen. These
gentlemen serve without compensation, with the exception of
Mr. Wishart and Mr. Lutz, for whom the compensation at
the rate of $Io per lecture has been arranged, in addition to
expenses. All expense incident to these lectures will be
borne by the Transportation Fund. The names follow:
D. F. CRAWFORD, General Superintendent, Motive
Power, Pennsylvania Lines; two lectures;
W. C. WISHART, Statistician Public Service Commission, 2nd Dist., five lectures;
A. H. PLANT, Comptroller Southern Railway; five lectures.
WILLIAM    BEAHAN, Assistant Engineer New York
Central Lines, five lectures;
CHARLES A. LUTZ, Chief Examiner of Accounts Interstate Commerce Commission, five lectures.
HENRY E. RIGGS, Consulting Engineer, ten lectures.
HENRY C. ADAMS.
December 7, I9II.




DECEMBER MlEETING, I91Ir


319


On motion of Regent Beal, the appointments were all
made in accordance with the request.
Regent Beal presented the following communication
from the Secretary and, on his motion, the various appointments were approved and confirmed.
Tlhe following routine appointments have been made by
the Secretary and are submitted for approval and record.
The budget makes proper provision in each case and the appointments are for the University year 19II-I912 or for the
balance of that year remaining after the date at which the
appointment begins.
Mrs. Grace S. Davis, as Assistant in Latin, in place of
Mr. F. F. Potter, at the rate of $300 per year, the appointment to date from November I.
Mr. George O. Spaulding, as Assistant in Romance Languages, at the rate of $I5o for the year, the appointment to
date from November 13.
Mr. George Wellman Hess, as Assistant in Mathematics
at the rate of $300 per year, the appointment to date from
October 16.
Mr. Leroy Melville Coffin, as Assistant in Mathematics
at the rate of $300 per year, the appointment to date from
October I6.
Miss Margaretta Packer, as Assistant in Botany at the
rate of $Ioo per year, the appointment to date from October 25.
Mr. Norman S. Sherer, as Assistant in Botany, at the
rate of $300 per year, vice Mr. Arthur Koehler, resigned. The
appointment is to date from November I.
Respectfully submitted,
SHIRLEY W. SMITH.
December 6, 1911.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, in accordance with the
recommendation of Dean Cooley and Professor Lorch, the
following appointments to Scholarships in Architecture were
made:Fred B. Klein, third and fourth year, The Albert Kahn
Scholarship of $Ioo, to be spread over two years-$50 each
year.
Glen D. Angle, The Michigan Chapter of the American
Institute of Architects Scholarship of $55 for one year.
Peter J. Weidner, The Smith, Hinchman and Grylls
Scholarship of $55 for one year.




320


DECEM1BER MEETING, 1911


On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of a committee consisting of President Hutchins, Dean Vaughan, and Dean Jordan, the Board appointed
Dr. Lillian Welch, of Baltimore, Maryland, to give three lectures on three successive days during the second semester before the University women on the general subject of personal, social, and sex hygiene. Dr. Welch's compensation for
these three lectures, including expenses, is to be not in excess of $125.
The Secretary reported an estimate by Superintendent
Marks of $I75 as the expense for mounting the remaining
ancient tablets and inscriptions on the walls of the Memorial
Building.
On motion of Regent Beal, an appropriation not to exceed $175 was allowed for the purpose.
On motion of Regent Beal, following the recommendation
of the Superintendent of the University Hospital and Dean
Vaughan, the certificate of graduation from the University
Hospital Training School for Nurses was conferred upon
Ada I. Stine.
All the above actions were by unanimous vote except in
the case expressly stated.
On motion the Board adjourned to January 26.
SHIRLEY W. SMITIH,
Secretary.




APPENDIX TO REGENTS' PROCEEDINGS
DECEMBER 15, I91I
SUMMARY OIF THE] BUDGET FOR THE SUMA1sMER SESSION OF I912
1912          I9II      In-      Decrease    crease
*Literature, Science, and the Arts..$23,840.00  $25,0I8.00            $I,I76.00
**Engineering..................... 10,410.00    9,96.00     504. oo
Medicine and Surgery..............3,850.0oo      3,307.50    542.50
Law..............................  3,656.00     3,I68. oo   488.00oo
Pharmacy..........................  475.0o      475.00oo
School of Library Methods............680.00        625.00      5.00oo
Administration.................... I,IO.oo       1,050.00     50.00
Current Expenses................. 2,000.00       2,000.0o
$46,0II.00    $45,547.50  $I,639.50  $I,176.00
D educt................................................., 176.oo
Net Increase................................... $463.50
*The real decrease here is only $424.00, as $752.00 was transferred to the
Department of Engineering in Mathematics.
**In spite of the apparent increase of $504.00 here shown, there is a real
decrease of $248.00. The apparent increase is due to the transfer of $752.00
from the Department of Mathematics in the Department of Literature, Science,.
and the Arts, to the Engineering budget.
BUDGET FOR THE SUMMER SESSION                OF 1912.
DEPARTMENT OF LITERATURE SCIENCE AND THE ARTS.
Hrs.   1912             I9II    In-    Decrease crease
GreekJunior Prof. C. Bonner........ 64     $320
Instr. F. F. Potter.............. 64   192


$512   $512




322                  DECEMBER MEETING, 191]
Hrs.   1912              9I I   In-    DeLatin-                                                           crease  crease
Prof. F. W. Kelsey.............. 64    400
Jr. Prof. C. L. Meader........ 64      320
Asst. Prof. A. R. Crittenden.... 96    384
Instr.  F.  F.  Potter............. 32  96
1,200   1,200
Romance LanguagesProf. A. G. Canfield............ 64    400
Jr. Prof. J. R. Effinger.......... 32   i6o
Jr. Prof. H. P. Thieme........ 64       320
Asst. Prof. C. P. Wagner........ 95     384
Instr. W. A. McLaughlin....... 96      288
Instr. R. H. Plaisance........ 32       96
1,648    I,584    64
'GermanProf. Max WVinkler............ 64      400
Jr. Prof. T. Diekhoff.......... 64      320
Jr. Prof. J. A. C. Hildner...... 64     320
Asst. Prof W. W. Florer........ 64      256
Asst. Prof. C. E. Eggert........ 64     256
Instr. J. W. Scholl........... 64     192
1,744    1,744
EnglishProf. I. N. Demmon............ 64       400
Prof. L. A. Strauss...........  64     400
Jr. Prof. J. S. P. Tatlock...... 64     320
Instr. S. F. Gingerich.......... 64     192
Instr. W. R. Humphreys........ 64       192
1,504    1,488    I6
RhetoricAsst. Prof. T. E. Rankin........ 96     384
Asst. Prof J. R. Brumm........ 96     384
Instr. F. G. Tompkins.......... 64      192
Asst. Clara Dunn..............           40
I,000     904     96
OratoryInstr. R. D. T. Hollister........96    288
Instr. R. K. Immel.............. 64     192


480     688             208




DECEMBER MEETING, I91I                                323
Hrs.   1912             I9II    In-    Decrease crease:
HistoryProf. A. L. Cross.............. 32     200
Undistributed..................        00oo
1,200    1,152    48
Political Economy and SociologyProf. H. S. Smalley............ 64     400
Prof. F. R. Clow.............. 64      400
Instr. D. Friday................ 64    192
Instr. W. H. Hamilton........ 64       192
I,184    1,176     8
Political ScienceProf. J. S. Reeves.............. 64    400
400       400
PhilosophyProf. R. M. Wenley............ 64      400
Asst. Prof. J. F. Shepard...... 96     384
Instr. R. W. Sellars............ 64    192
Instr. C. B. Vibbert.......... 64      192
Asst. H. F. Adams............          120
1,288, 192    9(?
EducationProf. A. S. Whitney............ 64     400
Asst. Prof. C. O. Davis........ 64     256
Asst. Prof. C. S. Berry....... 64      256
Asst. Prof. F. S. Breed........ 64     256
Asst. Prof. G. L. Jackson........ 64    256
1,424    1,440             16,
MathematicsProf. W. W. Beman........... 64        400
Prof J. L. Markley............ 64      400
Jr. Prof. W. B. Ford.......... 64      320
Asst. Prof J. W. Bradshaw.... 64    256
Asst. Prof. L. C. Karpinski...... 64.  256
Instr. E. B. Escott............ 64     192
1,824   2,480             656:




324                  DECEMBER MEETING, 19II
Hrs.   1912             I9II     In-    Decrease crease
PhysicsProf. K. E. Guthe............ 64        400
Jr. Prof. H. M. Randall....... 64       320
Asst. Prof. W. D. Henderson.... 96      384
Instr. D. L. Rich................ 96    288
Instr. —........... 96                  288
Instr............ 96     288
1,968   2,240             272
ChemistryAsst. Prof D. M. Lichty........ 64      256
Asst. Prof. W. G. Smeaton...... 64      256
Asst. Prof W. J. Hale.......... 64      256
Asst. Prof L. H. Cone.......... 96      384
Instr. S. C. Lind.............. g6      288
Instr. H. K. Cole.............. 96      288
Instr. R. J. Carny............... 96     288
Instr. R. K. McAlpine.......... 96      288
Instr. C. J. West................ 96    288
Ten Assistants at $40..........         400
2,992    3,280             288
AstronomyJr. Prof. R. H. Curtiss.......... 64    320
Expense for visitor's night......         5
325     400               75
MineralogyProf. E. H. Kraus.............. 64      400
Instr. W. H. Hunt.............. 96      288
688     592     96
GeologyInstr. I. D. Scott................ 96   288
Assistant ------..........         50
Excursion Fund................           25
363     395               32
ZoologyAsst. Prof. R. W. Hegner...... 96       384
Assistant E. W. Sink.......... 96        75
459     459




DECEMBER MEETING, I9I1                                325
Hrs.   I912             I9II    In-    Decrease crease
BotanyJr. Prof. J. B. Pollock.......... 64   320
Asst. Prof C. H. Kauffman...... 96      384
Instr. H. T. Hus..............96       288
Three Assistants at $40........         120
Excursion fund................          15
1,127    I,180             53
Physical TrainingDirector A. G. May.......... 64        320
Instr.............. 64     I92
512     512
$23,842 $25,018   $424   $i,6oo
Deduct............................................................    424
N et  D ecrease.....................................................  $, 76
The real decrease is only $424.00, as $752.00 was transferred to the Department of Engineering in Mathematics.
DEPARTMENT OF ENGINEERING.
Hrs.   1912             I9I1    In-    Decrease crease
EnglishInstr. H. P. Breitenbach......... 96    288
288     288
FrenchInstr. H. A. Kenyon............ 96     288
Instr. A. F. Hurlburt.......... 64     192
480      576              96
GermanJr. Prof. W. H. Wait........... 64-    320
Instr. W. F. Hauhart.......... 96      288
608     6o8




326                  DECEMBER MEETING, 1911
Hrs.   I912             I9II    In-    Decrease crease
MathematicsAsst. Prof. Peter Field.......... So    320
Instr. L. A. Hopkins............ 80    240
Instr. V. C. Poor.............. 64      192
752            752
DrawingJr. Prof. H. J. Goulding........ 64     320
Instr. --      -........... 96     288
6o8    I,184            576
SurveyingProf. C. T. Johnston...........        450
(In charge of camp)
Instr. H.' T. Atwell............        300
(With extra clerical duties)
Instr. John Schmutz............         288
Instr. C. 0. Carey..............        288
Instr. Hugh Brodie............          288
Instr.  R.  Bailey................     288
Six assistants at $I50 each......      go0
2,802   2,802
Shop WorkInstr. W. R. McDonald..........          40
40             40
Engineering MechanicsProfessor C. J. Tilden.......... 64    400
Asst. Prof. A. B. Pierce......... 96     384
Instr. A. J. Decker.............. 96    288
1,072           1,072
Civil EngineeringAsst. Prof. C. A. Ellis....... 96      384
384     704             320




DECEMBER MEETING, 1911                                327
Hrs.   I912             I9II    In-    Decrease crease
Mechanical EngineeringJr. Prof. S. J. Zowski.......... 64    320
Instr. E. T. Cope..............96      288
Instr. W. F. Verner............ 96     288
Instr. G. E. Wallis.............. 96    288
I,184   1,344             I6o
Electrical EngineeringJr. Prof. B. F. Bailey.......... 64    320
Asst. Prof. R. D. Parker...... 96      384
Instr. H. L. Tanner............ 96     288
992    1,344            352
Chemical EngineeringInstr. E. E. Ware............. 96    288
Instr............. 48      144
432     288    I44
Marine EngineeringAsst. Prof. E. M. Bragg........ 96      384
384     384
Architecture and Fine ArtsAsst. Prof. H. R. Cross........ 96     384
384     384
Totals....................................  $I9,9o6       $2,008   $1,504
Deduct...................................                  1,504
Increase.................................                $  504
In spite of the apparent increase of $504 here shown, there is a real decrease
of $248. The apparent increase is due to the transfer of $752 from the Department
of Mathematics in the Department of Literature, Science and the Arts, to the
Engineering budget.




328                 DECEMBER MEETING, I91I
DEPARTMENT O0 MEDICINE AND SURGERY.
Hrs.     1912             I9II    In-    Decrease crease
MedicineProf. A. W. Hewlett......... 6     300.00
Instr. J. G. Van Zwaluwenburg 90    202.50
502.50 502.50
SurgeryDr. C. G. Darling.......... go    270.00
Dr. I. D. Loree............ 60    35.oo
405.00 405.00
GynecologyInstr......... go    202.50
Instr......... go90  202.50
Instr......... go90   202.50
67.6075.50
OphthalmologyProf. W. R. Parker and Dr.
C. Slocum................6o     240.00
240.oo 240.00
OtolaryngologyProf. R. B. Canfield........ 60   240.00
240.oo 240.00
PathologyProf. A. S. Warthin........ 6    300.00
Instr. C. Weller.......... 90     202.50
502.50   502.50
Nervous DiseasesProf. C. D. Camp.......... 60     240.00
240.00                  240.00
PharmacologyDr. G. B. Roth, Instr....... 90  202.50


202.50


202.50




DECEMBER MEETING, I9Ir                                329
Hrs.   1912             I9II    In-    Decrease crease
BacteriologyInstr. C. A. Behrens...... 90     202.50
202.50                  202.5C
Physiological ChemistryInstr. C. A. Doty........... go   202.50
202.50   202.50
AnatomyDr. R. A. McCotter, Instr... 90    202.50
Assistant....       o00.00
302.50   202.50          I00.00
Vaccines and Serum TherapyDr. J. G. Cumming, Instr... 90     202.50
202.50- 202.50
Totals................................  $2,850.oo  $3,307.50     $542  50
DEPARTM]ENT Op LAW.
1912      I9II    In-    Decrease crease
Prof. T. A. Bogle.......................... 400
Prof.  J.  R.  Rood..........................  400
Prof. E. C. Goddard.................... 400
Prof. Evans Holbrook........................ 400
Prof. H. M. Bates.......................... 400
Professor  of Contracts....................... 400
Professor of Property  I.................... 400
Prof. E. R. Sunderland.................... 300
Prof. G. L. Clark.......................... 300
Asst. Prof. Edgar N. Durfee.................. 256
$3,656 $3, 68  $488
SCHOOL Or PHARMACY.
Hrs.   1912             I9I1    In-    Decrease  crease
Prof. J. 0. Schlotterbeck.................... 400
Two   assistants  at  $37.50....................  75
$475   $475




330                 DECEM1BER MEETING, g191
SCHOOL O0 LIBRARY METHODS.
Hrs.   I912            I9II    In-    Decrease crease
Director  T.  W.  Koch......................  400
Instr.  F. L. D. Goodrich....................  I00
Instr. Esther  A. Smith........................  75
Instr.  W.  C.  Hollands......................  50
Lecturer Edna Whiteman.................... 35
D uplicate  books............................  20
$68o  $625    $55
ADMINISTRATION.
Hrs.     I9I2              I9II   In-    Decrease crease
Jr. Prof. J. R. Effinger, Dean........ 300
Prof. E. H. Kraus, Secretary of
Graduate School.................... Io1                      $50.00
Assist. Prof T. E. Rankin, Secretary
Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 200
Jr. Prof. H. J. Goulding, Secretary,
Engineering......................... Ioo
Dr. C. W. Edmunds, Secretary, Medicine and Surgery.................. Ioo
Prof. E. C. Goddard, Secretary, Law.... 200
Assistant in General Library.......... 75
Assistant in Law Library.............. 25
$I,IOO  $I,050   $50
GENERAL EXPENSES.
Tentative distribution subject to change within the total amount.
5,000  large  announcements....................................$  300
75,000 Abridged Announcements..............................  5IO
Io,ooo Law Announcements....................................     90
A dvertising....................................................  325
Stenographer  to  July  I, 1912....................................  200
Clerical help, messengers, etc....................................  I25
2   receptions....................................................  75
Postage........................................................  5
Non-resident  lecturers..........................................  Ioo
Stationery  and  printing..........................................  Ioo
Incidentals.......................................               25
Total...................................................... $2,000




JANUARY MEETING, 1912
UNIVERSITY o0 M_[ICIIIGAN, )
ANN ARBOR, JANUARY 26, I912. f
The Board met in the Regents' Room at Io o'clock A.
M. Present, Regent Grant, Regent Sawyer, Regent Beal,
Regent Leland, Regent Clements, Regent Bulkley, Regent
Hanchett, and Regent Hubbard.     Absent, Superintendent
of Public Instruction Wright.
The minutes of the meeting of December 15 were approved for printing with corrections in the page proof on
pages 306, 307 and 318.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, $I5o was added to the
repairs budget for the expense of putting in two toilets and
two lavatories in the new isolation rooms in the Palmer
W'ard at the University Hospital.
Regent Beal informally reported for the committee to
which the question of tests and analyses by the Chemical
Laboratory for the various departments of the University
and for others was referred at the meeting of June 27, 1911,
and on Regent Beal's motion, the Board adopted the following resolution as a rule:
Resolved: That the Chemical Laboratory be requested
to make such tests and analyses of materials as may be required by the Purchasing Department and by other departments of the University and by other State institutions; the
Chemical Laboratory to be reimbursed through the books of
the Secretary's office for the actual cost of such tests (aside
from supervision by professors or instructors) and the cost
so reimbursed to the Chemical Laboratory to be charged
to the department for which the test is made, or in the case
of other State institutions, to the contingent account.
Regent Clements reported informally upon progress
toward a decision as to the best site for the Power I-louse.
On motion of Regent Clements, the Board authorized the




332


JANUARY MEETING, 1912


payment to Smith, Hinchman and Grylls of $3,000 on account for services as architects and engineers for the proposed heating plant, payment to be made from the appropriation by the Legislature for the heating plant.
On motion of Regent Clements, a committee consisting
of Regent Beal and the Secretary was empowered and instructed to purchase the so-called Conrad lot and the Adams
one-half lot north of the Winchell, Monroe, and York
properties, provided purchase could be made at a satisfactory
specified price.
By the same motion, the Winchell, York, and Monroe
properties (with the Conrad and Adams lots should they b5e
secured) were formally selected as the site for the Hill
Memorial Auditorium, the building to be placed thereon at
such an exact location as will conform with the proposed
plan of the mall.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board adopted the
following resolution:
Resolved: That the sum of $6,I5o be paid into court, in
accordance with the judgment of the court in the York
condemnation proceedings, and that compulsory proceedings be taken at once, if necessary, to take possession of the
property.
Regent Clements presented a petition signed by the firemen in the heating plants of the University requesting a
Io%  increase in wages and a vacation allowance of two
weeks annually. After discussion this request was informally laid on the table.
On motion of Regent Clements, Mr. James I. Marks,
Acting Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, was elected as Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds with salary
at the rate of $2,700 per annum, the change in title and
salary to date from February I, I912.
Regent Beal reported in the matter of a uniform athletic
fee, and on his motion, after discussion, the following resolution was adopted:
Whereas: It is desirable to encourage the physical
development of the students by outdoor exercise, in which




JANUA-RY MEETING, 19r2


333


every student should participate, and as the necessity is
recognized by a law recently passed by the Legislature to
establish work in physical training in the schools, and
TWhereas:  Every student should have free access to
Ferry and Palmer Fields for such personal exercises, as well
as to witness all games, meets, and contests, and
Whereas: To more fully accomplish this, and to give a
fund towards the maintenance of Ferry and Palmer Fields,
Resolved: That an annual fee of five dollars be charged
each student of the University on and after October I, 1912,
payable as a part of the regular annual fees, and that the
Treasurer issue checks to the Athletic Association of the
University of Michigan for such amounts paid in by the
students as follows: five dollars for each man and two dollars for each woman; three dollars for each woman to the
Palmer Field Improvement Fund which shall be administered by the Dean of Women, Secretary of the University,
and the Director of Barbour Gymnasium. Provided, that if
any student feels unable to pay such amount he or she may
have an opportunity, without publicity, to be excused therefrom by petition to the Board of Regents,
*Resolved: That after October I, I912, all events on
Ferry and Palmer Field shall be free to all students of the
University.
Mr. Poll, of the office of Mr. Zack Rice, architect of
Detroit, appeared before the Board and exhibited proposed
plans of residential halls for women of the University.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the following resolution
was adopted:
Resolved: That the use by the College of Dental Surgery of an official seal combining the name of the University
with the name of the College of Dental Surgery is hereby
authorized.
A communication was received from        Professor Stanley
relative to possible enlargement and improvement of the
housing of the Stearns musical collection. This communication was referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee
* Reconsidered and changed, Feb. 29, to read: "Resolved, that
after October 1. 1912, free access shall be given to Ferry Field to
all students. and to Palmer Field to all women students, of the
University."




334


JANUARY MEETING, 1912


and the Committee on the Museum      for consideration and
report as soon as these Committees should find it possible to
make recommendation in the matter.
Regent Beal presented the following communication from
the head of the Department of History, and on Regent Beal's
motion, the various titles were fixed by the Board in accordance with the request of Professor Van Tyne:
Ann Arbor, November 23, 1911.
President H. B. Hutchins,
Ann Arbor, Mich.
My dear Mr. Hutchins:
At your request I took up in a meeting of our department the question of the titles of the several men with the
rank of professor. These titles when brought together
present a rather ragged appearance and seem to have no
plan. To remedy this we have unanimously agreed to the
following scheme:
C. H. Van Tyne, Professor of History.
U. B. Phillips, Professor of American History.
E. W. Dow, Professor of European History.
A. L. Cross, Professor of European History.
E. R. Turner, Professor of European History.
This does not, of course, change the rank of any of the
men. Will you kindly secure the necessary action on the
part of the Regents.
Very sincerely yours,
C. H. VAN TYNE.
Regent Beal presented the following communication from
Professor Van Tyne, and on motion of Regent Beal, the,communication was received for record, and the other members of the Board extended a vote of thanks to Regent
Clements for his co-operation with the work of the Depart-;ment of History:
Ann Arbor, November I9, I9II.
To the President and Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan.
Gentlemen:
I wish to report to you the appearance of the first
volume in the University of Michigan Historical Studies,Miss Hinsdale's "History of the American Cabinet." It is




JA NUARY MEETING, 1912 


335


a book of 350 pages, constituting a very scholarly and
creditable study of one of the most important bodies in our
governmental system. This has been published through the
kindness of Honorable William L. Clements, who has contributed $450 for that purpose, with the understanding that
the returns, if there are any, from the sale of the book shall
be repaid to him up to that amount. The department of
History is greatly indebted to Mr. Clements for thus making
possible the emulation of six or seven other universities
which have long issued similar publications of great credit
to those institutions. It should be remembered that in addition to the credit which redounds to the University from
such publications, the General Library enjoys a very palpable
gain from the 150 copies deposited there, which are used
in making exchanges with other libraries by which our own
collection of books is greatly enriched.
It will be of interest to you to know that two other
historical studies are ready for publication, and we hope that
they may appear within a year.
Respectfully submitted,
C. H. VAN TYNE.
Regent Sawyer presented a communication of considerable length from Dr. William F. Breakey, Dr. A. S. Warthin,
Dr. C. G. Darling, and Dr. Reuben Peterson, as a committee
on the status of the Old Medical Building. This communication urged the restoration of the Old Medical Building for
the purposes of a medical library and medical museum, or
else that the subscriptions already received should be returned to the donors.   The Regents found themselves unable to agree to the committee's recommendation that the
building be preserved and restored, and, on motion of Dr.
Sawyer, adopted the following resolution:
Resolved: That the Old Medical Building be razed;
that subscriptions made for the preservation and restoration
of the building be returned by the Treasurer to the donors;
that the expenses of the committee in their canvass for
subscriptions, up to the amount of approximately $270, be
reimbursed out of the General Fund.
On motion of Regent Leland, the Board granted the request of Professors I. N. Demmon and L. A. Strauss that
the University and not the Ben Greet Dramatic Fund should
bear the expense amounting to $87.06 for the construction




336


J 1ANU_4RY MEETING, 1912


of a stage used in the Ben Greet performance and forvarious University purposes.
The Secretary presented the need of the University for
an addressograph or similar mailing and cataloguing device
for the lists of University alumni.
On motion of Regent Leland, the President and Secretary were authorized to purchase and. put in operation such
a mailing and cataloguing outfit, at a cost estimated not to
exceed $2,000. Under this action $500 annually allowed to
the Alumni Association for the work of catalogue revision
lapses after and including the University year 191I-1912.
The net addition to the budget for the present year, therefore, under this action is $1500.
On motion of Regent Grant, a communication from the
Superintendent of the University Hospital relative to the
floors in the Eye and Ear Ward was referred to the Buildings and Grounds Committee with power.
Regent Hanchett presented a communication from the..
Dean of the Homoeopathic Medical College showing the
necessity of the H-omoeopathic Hospital for a replacement
of the sterilizing apparatus in that Hospital.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, the Purchasing Department was authorized to buy the specified sterilizers at an
approximate cost of $768, which amount was added to the
budget of the hospital.
Regent Hanchett presented a further communication
from the Dean of the Homceopathic Medical College emphasizing the need of additional roomn for the College and urging that an annex to the present hospital buildings be constructed to serve the double purpose of hospital relief and
headquarters for the college work.
On motion of Regent Hanchett, this communication was
referred to the Committee on the Homoeopathic -Medical
College and the Committee on Buildings and Grounds for
consideration and report.
The Secretary read the following communication from
the President, and on motion of Regent Bulkley, the recommendations contained in the communication were approved
and adopted by the Board:




JA NUARY' MEETING, 19r2


337


To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your attention is invited to the following for consideration, if possible, at your meeting called for December
15, I9II.
I beg to report that in accordance with the authorization at the October meeting (see page 267) I have appointed
Assistant Professor John R. Brumm of the Department of
Rhetoric as University News Editor, to take charge of the
work embodied for a number of years in the University
News-Letter. As it is believed that better results can be
secured without the publication of a printed bulletin for
general distribution such as the News-Letter, the NewsLetter itself has been discontinued.  In place of it, Mr.
Brumm will furnish letters concerning the University at
frequent intervals and as regularly as possible to newspapers
in the State and elsewhere. The general purpose of these
letters is to place the University before the public, especially
of this State, and to approach the matter from the point of
view of the interests of the local paper. Mr. Brumm is
now in correspondence with these papers of the State making arrangements to furnish them not only with the regular
mimeographed letter, with illustrative cuts, but also with
items which would be of local interest, such as college distinctions won by students from that locality, and opinions of
University authorities on matters of local public interest. Mr.
Brumm will also furnish the local reporters of outside newspapers with such matter concerning the University as will
meet their needs, although it is not intended in any sense
that his office shall be made exclusive for the giving out of
news. It is also intended that he will collect and edit material for a weekly bulletin of University events, should
such a publication be thought desirable. In general it is
understood that he will originate and plan methods by
which proper publicity of University affairs shall be secured,
all his efforts, however, being with due regard to our limitations as to money and time. The expense of this work
will be kept within the allowance made for the NewsLetter and every effort will be made to determine so far as
it may be possible, the results actually achieved.
It was understood with Mr. Brumm that there was to
be added to his title the words "News Editor" and that the
sum of $200 should be added to his salary for the present
University year. Should he need any assistance in carrying
on his work in the Department of Rhetoric, he is to make




338


JA.NUARY MlEETING, 1912


provision for that expense out of this allowance of $200.
The University is to furnish him with such stenographic help
as the work may require, together with such office equipment as may be needed. As I stated, 'the expense is not to
exceed that already allowed for the News-Letter.
All of the above is, of course, subject to the approval of
the Board.
H. B. HU'TCHINS.
December 8, I9II.
At this point the Board took a recess for lunch.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
On reassembling there were present Regent Grant, Regent Bulkley, Regent Clements, Regent Hubbard, Regent
Beal, and Regent Leland.
The Secretary reported that information relative to taxation of Canadian lands had not yet been secured.
Regent Bulkley reported on the Williams Professorship
Fund and the Walter Crane Fund showing a total in the
former fund of $21,546.23 and in the latter fund o*
$I4,892.3I. The investments in these funds were shown to
be practically all in mortgages and land contracts.
Regent Sawyer took his seat.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board passed the following resolution:
Resolved: That the property in the Williams Professorship Fund and in the Walter Crane Fund be referred to
the Finance Committee with the request that if the Committee deems such action desirable, it shall provide for the disposal of the present investments and shall reinvest the proceed's in desirable bonds.
Regent Bulkley reported in the matter of insurance
claims of the University against the State Insurance Fund
on account of losses by fire and also reported on the general
question whether fire insurance should be placed on University buildings and property.




JANUARYI MEETINAG, 1912


339


On motion of Regent Bulkley, the Board directed that a
committee, made up of the Buildings and Grounds Committee and the Finance Committee, should investigate this
general question of insurance and report thereon to the
Board at the next meeting.
Regent.Sawyer presented the following as the rules and
regulations recommended for the administration of the University H-ospital, under the action of the Regents taken
December 15 (see pages 313-315), and on Regent Sawyer's
motion, the rules and regulations were adopted.
RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR              HOSPITAL
COMMITTEE.
I. The Medical Faculty nominates the following menbers to constitute the Hospital Committee: C. B. deNancrede, Reuben Peterson, Albion W. Hewlett, R. Bishop Canfield and Albert M. Barrett together with the Dean, as exofficio Chairman. The Faculty asks you to confirm these
nominations.
2. This Committee nominates Reuben      Peterson as
Medical Director of the Hospital, and asks your approval
of this nomination.
3. The regular meetings.of the Committee are to be
held on the second and fourth Thursdays of each month
during the collegiate year. Special meetings may be called
at any time by the Chairman, or at the request of any two
members of the Committee.
4. Qualifications for admission to the Training School
for Nurses: (a) Education: All applicants for admission
to the Training School for Nurses must present evidence
of a high school education, or its equivalent. (b) Health:
All applicants for admission to the Training School for
Nurses must pass a satisfactory physical examination.  (c)
Character: All applicants for admission to the Training
School for Nurses must give evidence of good moral character.
5. The discipline for all nurses shall be under the control of the Superintendent of Nurses. No pupil nurse may
be dismissed from the school except by action of the Hospital Committee. All head nurses.shall be employed by the
Medical Director.  Reports of such appointments to be
made to the Hospital Committee for approval.




340


JANUARY MlEETIANG, 1912


6. Courses of instruction in the Nurses' School shall
be provided by the Superintendent of Nurses and approved
by the Hospital Committee.
7. In case of emergency, the Medical Director shall
have authority to employ extra nurses to the number of five,
paying not to exceed the salary paid for head nurses. In
case a greater number is needed, authority must be obtained from the Auditing Board. In case of the employment
of any such nurses, a report of the same shall be sent to
the Auditing Board.
8. Nominations for internes, anesthetist, and all medical
assistants in the hospital, shall be made by the heads of the
respective clinics with the approval of the Hospital Committee.
9. Nominations for house physician and for other
medical officers in the hospital shall be made by the H-ospital Committee with the approval of the Medical Faculty.
Io. All such recommendations shall he sent to the
Board of Regents at the June meeting of each year.
ii. Rules regulating the duties and conduct of the
house physician, anesthetist, internes and  other minor
medical officers and students in the hospital shall be drawn
by the Hospital Committee, to be approved by the Regents
and their enforcement shall be intrusted to the Medical
Director.
12. The Superintendent of the Hospital shall have the
general supervision of the sanitation of the hospital. Shall
accompany the Medical Director in making a thorough inspection of the entire hospital as often as may be practicable.
I3. The dietitian shall be appointed by the Mledical
Director with the approval of the Superintendent of the
Training School for Nurses.
14. The Hospital Committee shall have a general supervision over special diet of patients and shall adopt a system for such special diets as may be required. It shall be the
duty of the Superintendent of the Hospital to provide such
diets so far as they may be obtained in the market.
15. The prevention and control of contagious diseases
in the Hospital shall be placed in the hands of the Hospital
Committee.
I6. The scale of charges for medicine and medical
and surgical appliances shall remain as it is until a change
be recommended by the Hospital Committee, and be submitted to and approved by the Board of Regents.




JAlNUA.RY     _MEETING, z1912


341


Regent Clements reported in the matter of protection for
the art exhibits in the Memorial Building, and upon his motion, a sum not to exceed $200 was allowed for collapsible
gates to be placed at the top of the two main stairways.
The Secretary reported for a committee consisting of
Regent Beal and the Secretary, to which had been referred,
with power, the matter of contract for University printing,
that a contract had been made for the three calendar years,
1912, 1913, and 19r4, with the Ann Arbor Press of Ann
Arbor, the lowest of seven bidders.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, the minutes of the meeting of December 15 (page 316) were changed to show that
the services of Instructor A. E. White are to be retained in
I912-I913 without reference to whether Dr. Zimmerschied
returns to the University.
On motion of Regent Beal, the following Regent members of the Board of Trustees of the State Psychopathic
Hospital were re-elected for the year I912:
Regent Sawyer, Regent Grant, Regent Bulkley, and Regent Hubbard.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regents' traveling expense
vouchers were approved as follows:
Regent Beal, $23.42, covering trip for inspection of the
Biological Station in July, 19I1.
Regent Clements, $368.27, for expenses during the calencdar year 1911.
Regent Grant, $113.30, for expenses from July I to December 31, I911.
Regent Leland reported on the purchase of bonds for investment of trust funds at present uninvested. On his motion, the Board authorized the purchase from Devitt,
Tremble & Co., of Chicago, of $20,000 Waco, Texas, 5%
bonds at Io63 to net between 4.60 and 4.70, in accordance
with Devitt, Tremble & Co.'s letter of January 24.
Regent Beal presented the matter of proposed paving on
East University Ave., and on South University Ave., and it
was the informal understanding among the Regents that
should this improvement be made, the University would bear
its just proportion of the expense.
On motion of Regent Leland, Regent Sawyer was ap



342


JA4NUARY MEETING, 1912


pointed to approve the University vouchers for the ensuing
three months with Regent Grant as alternate.
On motion of Regent Hubbard, Professor Reighard was
requested to furnish the details entering into his estimated
request for the current expense budget of the Biological
Station for the summer of I912.
Regent Bulkley presented a letter froli     Mr. Bryant
Walker, of Detroit, tendering $350 to the University toward
the expenses of a scientific expedition to Nevada under the
auspices of the Museum    during the coming summer, this
gift being conditioned upon the appropriation by the Regents
of a like sum.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the gift of Mr. Walker
was accepted with the thanks of the Board for his generosity
and with the assurance that the budget of I912 and I9I3
would contain a provision for $350, in accordance with the
condition of Mr. Walker's gift.
The following report of the Executive Committee was
read by the Secretary, and on motion of Regent Grant, the
appointment of Mr. Airey was confirmed.
Ann Arbor, Mich., January 24, I912.
To the Honorable Board of Regents of the University of
Michigan.
Gentlemen:
At a meeting of your Executive Committee held January 4, I912, Mr. John Airey, upon the recommendation of
Dean Cooley of the Department of Engineering, was appointed Instructor in Engineering Mechanics for the second
semester of the year I9II-19I2 at a salary rate of $I,Ioo,
which would be $550 for the semester. It was represented to
the Committee that this appointment would be within the engineering budget and that the appointment at the time it was
made was necessary in order that the work in Engineering
Mechanics might be carried on, and for the further reason
that if the appointment were not made at once, Mr. Airey
would not be available.
Respectfully submitted,
W. H. SAWYER,
H. B. HUTCHINS,
J. E. BEAL,
Executive Committee.




J.ANUARY MEETING, 19r12


343,


Regent Bulkley presented a communication from Dr.
Ruthven, Curator of the Museum, stating that Honorable
George Shiras, of Washington, D. C., was presenting to the
Museum $Ioo to be applied to zoological work in the Northern Peninsula during the coming summer.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the thanks of the Board
were voted to Mr. Shiras for his generous co-operation.
The Secretary presented correspondence with the office
of Governor Osborn relative to the fuel contract of the University, which correspondence was placed on file.
The Secretary presented correspondence with Governor
Osborn relative to the resignation of members of the Faculty
of the department of Forestry.
On motion of Regent Bulkley, the following resolution
was adopted:
Resolved: That the Executive Committee be authorized
to fill all vacancies in the Faculty of the Forestry department.
The Secretary presented correspondencewith the Governor and with the Auditor General relative to the necessities
for economy by the state institutions. It was the sense of
the Board that the Regents appreciate the present situation
and will endeavor in so far as possible to conform with the
suggestions made.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, Dr. C. B. G. deXancrede
was given indefinite leave of absence with salary, with the
understanding that Dr. C. G. Darling would during his absence have charge of the work in the Department of Surgery.
On motion of Regent Beal, the Department of Forestry
was authorized to use its current expense budget so far as
might be desirable for the purchase of new equipment.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the Homoeopathic Hospital Training School for Nurses was authorized to employ
an instructor to give lessons in massage to the students in
the Training School, at an expense of $30, to be charged
against the Homoeopathic Hospital budget.
On motion of Regent Beal, in accordance with the recommendation of the Faculty of the Department of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, the degree of Bachelor of Arts was




-344


JA ANUARY MEETING, 1912


conferred upon William Gillis Cushman, Jr., as of the class
of 1911.
On motion of Regent Clements, the sum of $340 was
added' to the salary budget of the Buildings and Grounds
Department for the purpose of providing an additional
watchman for the remainder of the University year, in accordance with the action of the Regents at the meeting December 15.
By the same motion, the purchase of two portable watchman's clocks was authorized at an expense of approximately.$i6o.
The following report of the Comiittee appointed to investigate and report to the Board upon the proposed celebration of the Seventy-fifth Anniversary of the University was
presented:
To the Honorable Board of Regents:
Your attention is invited to the following, for consideration if possible at your meeting called for January 26, 1912:
The Committee, authorized by your Board to co-operate
with the Regents in developing plans for a proper celebration
of the Seventy-fifth Anniversary of the University, met
January 5, 1912, with the following members present:
President Hutchins, Regent Beal, Regent Bulkley, Dean
Reed, Dean Cooley, Dr. Vaughan, Dean Bates, Dr. Hoff,
Dr. Hinsdale, Judge Lane, and Mr. Shaw, representing the
Alumni Association, and   Professor Bursley, and  Mr.
Wells, representing the Union. This Committee appointed
a sub-committee of five, consisting of the President, Regent Beal, Dean Vaughan, Dean Cooley, and Mr. Smith, to
prepare and present a tentative plan for the celebration.
This Sub-Committee met Saturday, January 6, and prepared
a report which was presented to the General Committee at
its next meeting, January Io, when it was adopted with;certain modifications.
The Committee begs to present herewith to your
Honorable Body this plan as finally approved by the General
Committee.
The recommendations of the Committee are as follows:
(a.) It is the sense of this Committee that the celebration of the Seventy-fifth Anniversary of the University of
Michigan be confined to Commencement Week, June 23 to
29, I912, inclusive.




J,ANUAR Y MBETING, I9 2                    345
(b.) That there be three principal addresses,-one on
Sunday of Commencement Week in place of the Baccalaureate; one on Wednesday; and one on Commencement Day,
the last being the Commencement oration; that the question
of speakers be left to the Committee on Invitations with
power.
'(c.) That invitations be sent in accordance with the
following resolution:
"Resolved: That an invitation to send an official delegate be extended to all state universities of this country and
all other universities and colleges of the first rank (in accordance with "A Classification of Universities and Colleges'
as issued by the United States Bureau of Education in I9II),
in the Western Hemisphere and United States' possessions
and to all colleges in the State of Michigan."
(d.) That all Class Day exercises during Commencement Week be confined to Monday and Tuesday, and that
Wednesday, June 26, should be designated as Commemoration Day. The following program  for the day is recommended:
I. Procession on Campus, starting at 9 o'clock a. m.,
and exercises in University Hall to be completed in time
for luncheon.
2. A special reception and luncheon, provided for by
the following resolutions:
"Resolved: That a special luncheon to be called the
President's Reception  and  Luncheon, be provided  on
Wednesday of Commemoration Day."
"Resolved: That for this reception and luncheon the
Committee extend invitations to the official delegates, the
specially invited guests, the Governor of the State; the
President, Regents, the Deans, and the ladies of their
families."
"Resolved: That the delegates be received at the President's Reception and Luncheon by the Governor, the Regents, the President, and Administrative Officers of the
University."
3. Alumni meeting in the early afternoon.
4. The latter part of the afternoon to be devoted to
reunions, ball game, automobile trips, and the like, with the
various classes.
5. Class dinners from 6 to 8 o'clock.
6. From 8 to 9 o'clock illumination of the Campus,
and an open air concert. The Glee Club might also furnish music if desired. In case of inclement weather the



346


JA1NUARY MEETING, 1912


illumination to be omitted in part and the concert to be
given in University Hall.
7. From 9 to ii o'clock, Senate Reception in Memorial
Hall.
(e.) That visiting delegates, Regents, and members
of the University Senate be requested to wear academic
dress at the morning exercises of Commemoration Day and
Commencement Day,-this request not to extend to alumni
or other invited guests.
(f.) That Dean M. E. Cooley be invited to act as
Marshal of the Day, both for the Commemoration and
Commencement processions.
(g.) That sub-committees be appointed as follows:
I. An Executive Committee, of which Professor J. R.
Effinger is Chairman, to act with the Secretary of the University and with Professor E. D. Jones, Professor A. H.
White, and Professor C. J. Tilden.
2. A Committee on Invitations of which President
Emeritus Angell is Chairman, and with the President of
the University and the Dean of each Department as the other
members. The matter of congratulatory addresses to be left
4to this Committee with power, and also authority to invite
special guests.
3. A Committee of five on Decoration with Professor
'C. S. Denison as Chairman, and Professor Emil Lorch,
Professor H. R. Cross, Mr. W. C. Titcomb, and Mr. F. R.,Finch, as the other member's.
4. A Committee on Music, with Professor A. A.
Stanley as Chairman, and Professor E. A. Boucke and
Professor A. L. Cross as the other members.
5. A Committee on Hospitality, with Professor W. P.
Lombard, Chairman, and Professor H. P. Thieme, Professor G. W. Patterson, Professor F. G. Novy, and Professor Evans Holbrook as the other members.
6. A   Committee on Registration and Badges, with,Mr. W. B. Shaw as Chairman, and Professor H. S. Smalley,
Professor J. A. Bursley, Professor W. G. Stoner, and Dr.
Mark Marshall as the other members.
7. A Committee on Dinner and Luncheon, with Professor S. L. Bigelow as Chairman, and Professor H. C. Sadler,
and Professor W. J. Hale as the other members.
8. A Committee on Publicity, with Regent Beal as
Chairman, and    Professor J. R. Brumm, Dr. H. C.
'Thurnau, Mr. J. R. Nelson and Mr. W. B. Shaw as the
{other members.




JANUARY MIEETING, 1912


347


9. A Committee on Railroads and Transportation, with
Professor H. C. Adams as Chairman, and Judge V. H.
Lane, Professor J. S. Reeves, Professor E. D. Jones, and
Mr. W. H. Hamilton as the other members.
Io. A Committee on Program and Exercises of which
the Chairman of the Executive Committee is Chairman, with
the Chairmen of the Various Committees as the other members of the Committee.
II. A Committee on a Commemoration Volume, with
Professor F. N. Scott as Chairman, and Professor L. P.
Strauss and Professor T. E. Rankin as the other members.
(h.) It is recommended that Professor I. N. Demmon
be requested to prepare for the Memorial Volume an
article dealing with the history and development of the
University.
(i.) That the Directors of the Michigan Union be requested to take charge of the work of ascertaining what
accommodations can be provided for the alumni and other
visitors, returning for the celebration, and to publish lists
of the same for the use of the guests and returning alumni.
(j.)  That the offer of the Michigan Union to provide
an entertainment on the Campus on the afternoon of Tuesday, June 25, be accepted, provided that the afternoon is free
from conflicting engagements.
The Committee makes the following rough estimate
of expenses, presumably arising from its recommendations:Honorarium and expenses for each of the three
principal speakers, a total of.................. $500oo
Engraving  and  printing............................ ooo.oo
Postage.......................................... 1200.00
itMusic: Buglers, fife and drum corps for procession......................................... 100.oo
Band............................................  50.00
Open air concert and small orchestra for Senate
Reception and for President's Luncheon...... 750.00
Decorations, campus illumination, etc.,.............. 450.00
Entertainment Committee: carriage hire, etc...... I00.00
Luncheon: 200 plates  at $2.00.................... 400.00
Flowers and decorations for luncheon..............  00.oo
Extra expense of Commencement dinner due to
the expected large attendance................ 350.00:Expense for extra administration and clerical help.. 300.00




348


JANUARY MEETING, 1912


Expense of printing Commemoration Volume...... IOOO.OO
Honorarium to the editor of Commemoration Volume Ioo.oo
Honorarium for preparation of historical article.. ioo.oo
$6500. oo
Respectfuly submitted,
WILFRED B. SHAW,
Secretary of the Committee.
On motion of Regent Sawyer, the above report was
adopted with the exception of the clause relating to academic
dress. This clause was referred to the University Senate
with request for a report and recommendation by the Senate
to the Regents.
The sum of $6500 was added to the budget in accordance
with the report.
On motion of Regent Beal, leave of absence for the University year I912-I9I3 was granted to Professor Wlilliam
H. Hobbs in order that he might have opportunity for travel
and investigations abroad. This leave is conditioned upon
the provision by Professor Hobbs, at his expense, of a substitute satisfactory to the Board.
On motion of Regent Clements, $o18 was added to the
janitor's payroll in order to provide the service of a janitor
as caretaker from 7 to io P. MI. daily, except Sundays, in
the new Engineering Building.
Regent Beal presented the following letter from Assistant Professor C. I. Hill, and on Regent Beal's motion, the
resignation was accepted with regret:
Ann Arbor, Mich., January I5, 1912.
To the Honorable, The Board of Regents, University of
Michigan.
Gentlemen:
I hereby tender my resignation of the position of Assistant Professor of Forestry in the University, the resignation
to take effect at the end of the present collegiate year.
Very respectfully,
C. L. HILL.
On motion of Regent Leland, the following appointments
as recommended by the Dean of the Summer Session were




JANUARY MEETING, 1912


349


made for the session of I912, the salaries in all cases having
been provided in the budget adopted at the December meeting:
ENGLISH-Three courses in place of two for Dr. S. F.
Gingerich, with a salary of $288, in place of $192.
One course for Dr. H. S. Mallory, with a salary of $96.
HISTORY —Two courses for Professor J. H. Latane, Washington and Lee University, with a salary of $400.
Two courses for Professor C. L. Becker, University of
Kansas, with a salary of $400.
Two courses for Dr. F. B. Marsh, University of Texas,
with a salary of $192.
PHYSIcs-Three courses for Instructor F. J. Mellencamp,
with a salary of $288.
Three courses for Instructor N. H. Williams, with a
salary of $288.
PHYSICAL TRAINING IFOR WVOMEN-Two courses for Miss
Mabel S Morse, Physical Director, Girls' Latin School,
Boston, with a salary of $192.
DRAWING-Three courses for Instructor Abraham M. Fox,
with a salary of $288.
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING-Instructor A. E. White should be
appointed for three courses in place of E. E. Ware, at
a salary of $288.
Two courses for Instructor B. B. Grunwald, with a
salary of $192.
MEDICINE —Dr. L. Warren should be appointed for three
courses, with a salary of $202.50, in place of Dr. A. W.
Hewlett, who was to receive $300.
OBSTETRICS-Three courses for Dr. H. H. Cummings, with
a salary of $202.50.
Three courses for Dr. L. H. S. Dewitt, with a salary of
$202.50.
GYNEcoLOGY-Three courses for Dr. George Kamperman,
with a salary of $202.50.
LAw-Professor Ernest C. Conant, Professor of Law, University of Nebraska, to give courses in Property, with
a salary of $400.
Professor D. 0. McGovney, Professor of Law, Tulane
University, to give courses in Contracts, with a salary
of $400.



