
Proceedings of the Board of Regents
July 1990 - June 1991
The University of Michigan




JULY MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 19, 1990
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters.
Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Johnson,
Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as was Chancellor Jones. Vice
President Cosovich, Chancellor Wilson, and Regent Baker were absent. Provost
Arden attended the meeting in Chancellor Wilson's place; Regent Baker arrived at
2:25 P.M.
President Duderstadt called on Provost Vest to present the proposed 1990-91
General Fund Operating Budget.
1990-91 General Fund Operating Budget, Ann Arbor Campus
Provost Vest reviewed the budget preparation process, noting that the request
submitted to the state legislature in October 1989 for the General Fund had called for
an increment of $47.2 million over the $533.8 million 1989-90 General Fund budget.
The $47.2 million incremental request had included minimum needs of $37.2 million.
Of the $37.2 million, $20.2 million had been requested from the state (an 8.5 per cent
increase over the previous year's appropriation). The provost announced that the
actual increase in the 1990-91 appropriation that had been approved by the state
legislature would be just under 5 per cent, or $11.7 million. This leaves a shortfall of
$8.5 million. Provost Vest also pointed out that the percentage of the General Fund
made up of tuition and fee revenues now exceeds that proportion derived from state
appropriation.
The provost described specific recommendations he was making to deal with the
budget shortfall. These include cost reduction measures, internal reallocation, and
revenue measures. The internal reallocations include taking $5.7 million from the
General Fund and using it for the University Initiative Fund, where it is to be
earmarked for a College of Literature, Science, and the Arts base adjustment,
minority faculty recruitment, special faculty compensation needs, University Library
acquisitions, and a contribution to the base compensation program. Other internal
reallocation measures include a 1 per cent internal reallocation at the unit level and
an additional $1.5 million base reduction.
Provost Vest outlined each category of planned new expenditures. These
include $14.2 million in fixed costs, $.7 million for new space operating costs and
service, $9 million for compensation, $5 million for student financial aid, $1.6 million
for minority faculty and student recruitment and retention, $1 million as a base
increase for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, $1 million for special
faculty compensation needs, a total of $.9 million for University Library acquisitions
and Research Excellence Fund growth, and $2.8 million for other new program
initiatives.


-1 -



July Meeting, 1990


Revenue measures proposed to balance the budget include a 1990-91 tuition
increase of 6.5 per cent for resident undergraduate students and 9 per cent for
nonresident undergraduate students in all schools and colleges except Business
Administration and Engineering. Proposed increases for graduate resident and
nonresident tuition rates are 9 per cent, except for graduate students in the Schools of
Business Administration, Law, Medicine, and Dentistry, and the Colleges of
Engineering and Pharmacy, where the increases range from 8.5 per cent to 12 per
cent. Details of all proposed fee schedules are contained in the Regents
communication. The provost pointed out that it is the policy of the University of
Michigan to meet the demonstrated financial need of all Michigan resident
undergraduate students. He also noted that the University's proposed fee increases
are consistent with those announced by other Michigan public universities.
The provost displayed a chart indicating that there is no real growth in the
1990-91 General Fund budget, when adjusted for inflation. This is due to declining
revenue increases and societal support in the face of increasing costs, expectations,
and obligations. He noted that the University of Michigan is second to last among the
Big Ten institutions in the percentage of state appropriations increase it is slated to
receive for fiscal year 1990-91, and called for the state to make a renewed
commitment to higher education consistent with the traditions of the people of
Michigan.
1990-91 General Fund Operating Budget, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones reported that UM-Flint would be receiving an increase in
state appropriation of 5.5 per cent, or $1.9 million, and that 70 per cent of that
increase ($1.2 million) would be allocated to faculty and staff salaries. Because the
total increment is nearly $1.8 million short of the original request, he said that
UM-Flint will have to postpone or cut back on some of the programmatic
enhancements that have become necessary as a result of the campus' significant
enrollment increases in the past few years.
Besides the salary program, other incremental expenses for the Flint campus are
budgeted for staff benefits cost increases ($100,000), minority recruitment and
retention ($50,000), student aid ($51,200), nonsalary budgets ($150,000), student wage
program ($100,000), library acquisitions ($75,000), and programmatic enhancements
($227,800). Recommended tuition increases on the Flint campus are 6.5 per cent for
resident undergraduates and 8.5 per cent for resident graduate students and all
nonresident students.
1990-91 General Fund Operating Budget, UM-Dearborn
At the request of Chancellor Wilson, who could not be at the meeting, Provost
Vest outlined the 1990-91 General Fund budget for the Dearborn campus. He noted
that UM-Dearborn had received a 7.9 per cent increase ($2.8 million) in state
appropriations for 1990-91, but that even so, its funding on a per fiscal year equated
student (FYES) basis was among the three lowest in the state.
Planned incremental expenditures for UM-Dearborn include $1.7 million for
the salary program and fringe benefits, $303,000 for academic programs, $175,000 for
departmental revenues, $172,000 for nonsalary expenditures, $120,000 for new space,
and the remainder will be divided among student financial aid, the Michigan Mandate,


-2 -



July Meeting, 1990


the library, public liability insurance, utilities, and other commitments. Proposed
tuition increases for UM-Dearborn are 6.5 per cent for full-time resident undergraduates, 8.5 per cent for full-time nonresident undergraduates, and 10.4 per cent for both
categories of full-time graduate students.
University officials then responded to questions from the Regents about specific
aspects of the budgets. In response to a question from Regent Smith, the president
said that tuition levels for the Business Administration and Law Schools are somewhat
market driven. Regent Smith also inquired whether the Dearborn fee schedule
includes the self-imposed student activity fee for athletics. Mr. Behrens responded
that this fee was included at a rate of $4.25 per student per semester.
In response to a comment from Regent Varner, noting that there is no money
budgeted for facilities maintenance, Vice President Womack said that unfunded
deferred maintenance is a major problem, because colleges and universities in general
do not budget for plant depreciation.
Regent Varner also pointed out that the budget reflects the University's
commitment to diversity, because diversity initiatives are still being funded despite
cutbacks in other areas. President Duderstadt agreed that the budget clearly
demonstrates that these initiatives are regarded as the highest priority.
Regent Baker arrived at the meeting at this point.
Regent Power pointed out that there is a direct connection between tuition
increases and levels of state support, and that the state had not been responsive to the
challenge the University had made when it had made a commitment to hold the
resident undergraduate tuition increase to 6.5 per cent.
Regent Roach observed that while the Dearborn campus' appropriation was
above average at 7.9 per cent and the Flint campus had received the average level of
5.5 per cent, the Ann Arbor campus' appropriation continued its pattern of ranking
next to last among the fifteen public universities at just under 5 per cent. He said that
he hoped the people of Michigan would eventually recognize the disservice being done
to them by this continual underfunding of education at all levels.
Regent Roach also pointed out that the budget-balancing action taken on the
Ann Arbor campus of an across-the-board reduction of.4 per cent for each unit runs
counter to the practice of the early 1980s of making selective cuts after careful reviews
of each program. The president responded that this move was decided upon very late
in the process as the only means available to present a balanced budget once the
amount of the state appropriation became known. With such short notice, he said it
wasn't felt that units had the capacity to take a highly targeted cut.
In view of the University's policy of meeting the demonstrated financial needs of
all resident undergraduate students, Regent Smith asked what type of financial aid is
available for middle class students. Provost Vest responded that 60 to 70 per cent of
all students receive financial aid, and many of those are from middle class families.
He noted that funding is a major problem, especially for out-of-state middle income
students. The financial aid is usually a combination of scholarships, loans, and
work-study job opportunities.


-3 -



July Meeting, 1990


In response to a question from Regent Smith as to what constitutes middle class
income, President Duderstadt said that depending on individual circumstances,
families with incomes in excess of $60,000 per year might receive financial aid.
Regents Smith and Roach noted that financial aid that is available for students in the
higher income range is usually in the form of loans; President Duderstadt recalled
instances during his tenure as dean in which students were assisted with grants from
discretionary funds under extraordinary circumstances.
Regent Baker asked for clarification of the funding source and role of
University Counseling Services and LaGROC. Provost Vest explained that the
Lesbian and Gay Male Programs Office (LGMPO) receives funding through the
Office of the Vice President for Student Services, and that LaGROC is a student and
staff advocacy organization that receives no University funding.
Vice President for Student Services Mary Ann Swain explained that the Lesbian
and Gay Male Programs Office provides counseling and programs about issues of
concern to lesbians and gay men, and that if someone were concerned about his or her
sexual identity, that person would be directed to University Counseling Services. In
response to further questions from Regent Baker, she noted that the ethics of
counseling require that counselors do not impose their points of view on their clients,
and that the counselors in the Lesbian and Gay Male Programs Office are themselves
homosexual.
Regent Baker reiterated a suggestion he had previously made to Provost Vest
that a neutral counseling office be established that presents a nonbiased point of view.
Provost Vest responded that students who seek counseling because they have
questions about their own sexual orientation go to the existing University Counseling
Services office that is a neutral, highly professional counseling office with no bias or
advocacy role. Students who already identify themselves as lesbian and gay might
avail themselves of the LGMPO to deal with issues that affect that aspect of their
lives.
Regent Baker observed that he had never heard of a student who had sought
counseling who had not been advised to move toward the homosexual side. He stated
that there ought to be a place at the University that is not neutral that would try to
persuade them to go to the heterosexual side. He noted that programs do exist in
other cities that provide that type of assistance for people who have sexual identity
questions.
Regent Brown moved approval of the 1990-91 revenue budgets and student fee
rates for all three campuses. Regent Varner seconded the motion. Because people
had signed up to speak at Public Comments about these issues, it was decided to defer
consideration of this motion until the next day.
Michigan Student Assembly 1990-91 Fee Request
Vice President Swain submitted a request from Michigan Student Assembly to
increase the student fee for MSA from $6.77 to $7.21 per student per term and to
retain the rates of $0.35 per student per term for the Michigan Collegiate Coalition
and $1.00 per student per term for school and college governments.


-4 -



July Meeting, 1990


Ms. Jennifer Van Valey, president of MSA, responded to questions from Regent
Nielsen about MSA's progress in paying off the debt that had been accumulated by a
past MSA administration. She stated that $32,000 of the loan had been paid off, and
that $22,920 ($20,964 in principal and $1,956 in interest) was budgeted for the 1990-91
fiscal year. That is the equivalent of about $.03 per student toward debt retirement.
(According to Mr. Wolfe, $23,868 of the loan principal had been paid off by May 31,
and the balance on that date was $36,132.) Regent Nielsen stated that he did not
agree that new students should be "taxed" for the misdeeds of prior administrations.
Ms. Van Valey stated that the new funds generated by the proposed rate increase
would be directed toward student programs and not toward paying off past debts.
Ms. Van Valey then responded to questions from Regent Roach, who, recalling
her previously stated refusal to participate in development of the University's
anti-harassment guidelines, threats of action in opposition to deputization of security
officers and other policies, asked why MSA should receive any funding at all. Ms. Van
Valey responded that even though it was unlikely that students and Regents would
agree on many issues, she intended to keep the lines of communication open. In
response to another question from Regent Roach, she said that students supported the
administration's efforts to obtain increased state funding for the University and to
improve the safety situation on campus.
Regent Baker commented that Ms. Van Valey's views were not really
representative of those of the entire student body, because only a small proportion of
the entire student body cast votes for her. He also noted that the University of
Michigan had provided a major portion of the funding for Michigan Collegiate
Coalition during the past year. He questioned the group's lobbying focus, influence,
and the amount of support it had among all of the states' students, and said he would
not support that portion of the proposed student fee for the coming year.
Ms. Van Valey noted that students at Michigan State University had recently
voted to support the Michigan Collegiate Coalition at the same rate as the University
of Michigan, and that MCC was making an effort to increase participation and support
among all of the state's public universities.
Regent Power complimented Ms. Van Valey for her poise in responding to the
Regents' concerns.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Ms. Van Valey said that students
had not had an opportunity to vote on participation in MCC through a referendum,
but that the Michigan Student Assembly was interested in pursuing that idea or other
methods of increasing student awareness and participation in MCC.
Appointment of Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., as Provost and Vice President for Academic
Affairs
President Duderstadt commented that he felt it was very important to maintain
continuity in the Office of the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs
because of the office's central importance to the University, and that it would be
unwise to have there be an extensive transition period in that office. Therefore, over
the past several weeks, he had embarked on an extensive process of consultation
among a wide variety of constituencies and had reconvened the search committee that
had chosen Provost Vest. Based on that process, he announced that he was


-5 -



July Meeting, 1990


recommending the appointment of Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., currently dean of the
School of Business Administration, as the next provost and vice president for academic
affairs.
Following further comments by President Duderstadt about Dean Whitaker's
qualifications and experience, Regent Baker moved approval of the recommendation.
Regent Roach seconded the motion. Regent Baker commended Dean Whitaker's
accomplishments at the School of Business Administration and noted his pleasure at
this appointment. The vote was then taken, and the motion to appoint Gilbert R.
Whitaker, Jr., as Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs was approved
unanimously and followed by a standing ovation.
Resolution in Honor of Charles M. Vest
President Duderstadt then called on Regent Brown, who read the following
resolution:
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend Charles M. Vest for
his service as provost and vice president for academic affairs, as he leaves the
University to assume the presidency of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
A native of West Virginia, Charles Vest has been associated with the
University of Michigan since 1963, when, after graduating from West Virginia
University and marrying Rebecca McCue, he arrived in Ann Arbor to complete
his education at the College of Engineering. After receiving his master's degree in
1964 and his doctorate in 1967, he joined the College of Engineering faculty,
where he rose through the academic ranks in the 1970s to achieve the level of
professor by 1977. During the 1980s, he joined the college's administrative ranks,
serving as associate dean from 1981-86 and dean from 1986-89. All the while,
he pursued his scholarly interest in the area of holographic interferometry,
authoring or coauthoring over 50 technical publications as well as a book,
Holographic Interferometry. which is widely regarded as the standard text in the
field.
Since assuming the position of provost and vice president for academic
affairs in January 1989, Charles Vest has done an outstanding job of overseeing
the academic enterprise in his dual roles as chief academic officer and chief
budget officer. His sensitive, insightful leadership and his judicious oversight of
resource allocation have assured the continued enhancement of the quality of
the University in the face of an ever-precarious revenue base.
In an interview held shortly after being named provost, Provost Vest
extended the following challenge that the Regents now offer as a fitting legacy:
"If we aspire to excellence as a university, then each of us must aspire to
excellence in what we do ourselves. " As he leaves the University of Michigan, the
Regents salute Charles M. Vest for his exemplary performance as a thoughtful
scholar/administrator whose broad intellectual interests and impeccable
academic, social, and personal values are the embodiment of the University's
mission. The Regents also express their heartfelt appreciation to Becky Vest for
her equally dedicated years of service and leadership, and extend best wishes to
Chuck and Becky as they embark on their exciting new adventure at MI. T.


-6 -



July Meeting, 1990


Following a standing ovation, Provost Vest made the following remarks:
Remarks by Provost Vest
Last week, I had an interview with the Ann Arbor News, and the reporter asked
me what the hardest task I had undertaken since I had been at the University was. I
gave her an answer, but I think I now would answer that somewhat differently.
Because I think the hardest task I've had to undertake was actually sitting down and
typing out my letter of resignation for President Duderstadt earlier this week.
I want to pass on a few thoughts about the University. Michigan is indeed one
of a handful of the world's truly great universities. We often say these words, but do
we really grasp their full significance? My personal experience during the process of
the presidential search at M.I.T. really emphasized yet again the full meaning of those
words. Michigan has been looked to for leadership in the country for more than a
century. It is the case at the moment and it must continue to be the case in the future.
I am afraid that I do not always believe that the people and the government of the
state of Michigan fully value the great resource that they have here. This is perhaps in
part our fault, but I do believe that we must believe a sense of pride in and
commitment to this institution and to higher education that in the past led the people
of Michigan to build this great university and make it accessible to the world.
In order to assure the continued greatness of Michigan, this will require not
only such recommitment on the part of the state; it will require that each of us that
serve as faculty serve so in the fullest, most honorable sense of that term. It will
require that our Regents forever serve as trustees of this great institution in the finest
sense of that term. It will require that we always communicate the importance of the
roles of our staff, and make them an integral and valued part of our community. It will
require that our students view their mission here as learning and growing in order to
better serve the greater society.
The University of Michigan has in Jim Duderstadt one of the truly great
leaders in higher education today. He has a vision of the future and of Michigan's role
that will serve us and the nation well. He has an uncanny ability to see to the heart of
issues and to understand major trends, changes, and challenges that are before us.
Jim's voice is heard, and I can assure you, highly respected in very high national
councils. He sticks to a few basic tenets, but they are correct, and they are
fundamental. One of our greatest privileges, speaking on behalf of Becky and myself,
has been that of working very closely with Jim and Anne Duderstadt for almost a
decade. I wish Jim well, and I hope that the University and the state will truly salute
his leadership.
The strength of the commitment of this university to multiculturism under
President Duderstadt's leadership I believe will prove to be of major significance in
the long term history of this university. That road is one that is fraught with problems
and pitfalls, but if we do not travel down it, we will not be the leading institution
twenty years from now that we are today, because we will not appropriately reflect and
the American society around us. I urge all of you to keep this as a high institutional
priority, and look forward to observing the results of Michigan's national leadership in
this endeavor in the years to come.


-7 -



July Meeting, 1990


I wish that I had presented a more attractive budget today. However, the
financial pressures that we sense reflect the situation facing virtually every university
in the country. The costs and obligations and the expectations that faculty, students,
staff, and society have for us are simply growing faster than the resources provided to
us. A two-fold response must be taken, revenue enhancement and cost management.
Everyone will favor the former, but we must build realism, and indeed, enthusiasm, for
the latter. Enhancement of academic excellence in the context of scarce resources will
require wisdom, community, willpower, and above all, a common sense of purpose and
mission. I believe that this university must and will exert leadership in this task as it
has in so many others.
Ann Arbor and the University of Michigan are intimately and properly woven
together in the memories of our alumni and in the minds of the nation. I trust that the
present administrative contentions between the city and the University are but a small
perturbation in what must be and should be a long-lived partnership.
Above all, I hope that the University of Michigan will forever set its central
agenda to be excellence in research, scholarship, and education. I'm troubled that in
recent times the term "elite" as a descriptor of universities has begun to take on a
negative connotation. It is my belief that the nation needs a small number of
universities truly committed to excellence and to the education of an elite. But I think
of this elite in a somewhat Jeffersonian sense. That is, it must be accessible.
Admission to it must be available to people from all segments of our society and
earned through dedication, hard work, and talent, not through race or social position.
It is also necessary that some of this handful of truly excellent universities be in the
public domain. And that, in my view, is the historic role and future mission of the
University of Michigan.
Although a great university must always be a place of vigorous dissent and
debate, I believe that the University must strive to increase its sense of community and
its view of the education of its students as the essence of its mission. I have a vision
that I have shared with you in the past that the greatness of the University of Michigan
in the decades ahead will stem from its unique combination of comprehensiveness and
quality. Much of the truly exciting research, scholarship, education, and service during
this period will stem from major restructuring of knowledge and from very eclectic
mixtures of academic disciplines. New interfaces between theory and application are
needed. No university in the world is as well-positioned as Michigan to lead in such
interdisciplinary ventures, and therefore, no university has a better opportunity to
render service to the state, to the nation, and to the world.
In closing, I want to comment that since it was announced that I was afforded
this new opportunity at M.I.T., I have been grateful for the many, many pieces of
correspondence an congratulations, and statements of appreciation that I have
received. But one really sticks out in my mind, and when I refer to its source, you'll
know why. It was a brief note I had from Paul McCracken, one of the truly
distinguished members of our faculty. And that letter said, almost in its entirety, "Boy
from West Virginia becomes president of M.I.T.: The American dream."
I took that very seriously, and I just want everyone around this table to know
that I believe that is the case, and that it is this university that has afforded this career
and these opportunities to me and to Becky, and that we are deeply grateful for it. We
further believe that the University of Michigan's combination of excellence and access


-8 -



July Meeting, 1990


will make such opportunities available to countless others in the years ahead. Thank
you very much.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach then made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by 1984
PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session in the
Regents' Room on July 20, 1990, immediately following the end of the regular
business meeting, for the purpose of conducting periodic personnel evaluations
of the officers and deans of the University, each of whom has requested a
closed session evaluation.
Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting was then recessed to allow the participants to move to the
Anderson Room in the Michigan Union for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: James Green and Aaron Williams, students, on Michigan Student
Assembly and tuition.
Regent Brown moved that the executive session be held immediately following
Public Comments. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was approved
unanimously.
Friday, July 20, 1990
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Varner.
Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Johnson,
Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as was Chancellor Jones. Vice
President Cosovich, Chancellor Wilson, and Regent Waters were absent. Vice
Chancellor Behrens attended the meeting in Chancellor Wilson's place.
Minutes
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called for a motion to
approve the minutes of the meeting of June 21-22, 1990. On a motion by Regent
Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents unanimously approved the minutes,
subject to certain specified changes noted by the secretary.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports of Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations, and Non-Competitive Purchases
Over $2,000.


-9 -



July Meeting, 1990


Investments. Vice President Womack commented on current market
conditions and how they relate to the performance of the University's endowment. He
noted that value stocks have been underperforming, and that the endowment's
performance will be negatively affected by this, due to the endowment's emphasis on
value stocks.
Regent Smith observed that there had been an increase in the number of
mortgages issued by the Investment Office.
Research. Vice President Kelly submitted reports of Projects Established —
Research and Other Activities and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects. In response to a request from Regent Varner, Vice President
Kelly said that future monthly reports would include a summary of total dollar
amounts of all awards for that month.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
In Vice President Cosovich's absence, President Duderstadt pointed out that
for th fitie first time in history, the total gifts and pledges for a single year had exceeded
$100 million. Regent Power noted that this was indeed a significant milestone.
Regent Baker asked whether this achievement means that less money would be
needed for the operating budget. President Duderstadt responded that that would not
be the case, since most of the contributions are earmarked for specific uses. He
emphasized that the increase in private support by no means compensates for the
significant loss of public support that the University has experienced in recent years.
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Thomas A. Bloom, Ph.D., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Theatre, UM-Flint
Alan Code, Ph.D., Professor of Philosophy and Classical Studies, January 1, 1991
Stephen E. Feinberg, D.D.S., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dentistry
John F. Fink, Ph.D from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics and
Statistics, UM-Dearborn
John E. Fornaess, Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics
John W. Halloran, Ph.D., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering
Ronald W. Marx, Ph.D., Professor of Education
Allen Moy Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, January 1, 1991
Martha J. Somerman, D.D.S., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dentistry and William K. and Mary Anne
Najjar Professor, January 1, 1991
Ralf J. Spatzier, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics
Berit Stensones, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics
Patricia S. Yaeger, Ph.D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature


-10 -



July Meeting, 1990


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Tamas I. Gombosi, Ph.D., from Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences
without tenure, and Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure, to Professor of
Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and Professor of Aerospace Engineering,
without tenure
Charles Gordon (OyamO), M.FA., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Theatre, School of Music
Richard M. Laine, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering
Victor En Yu Tan, Associate Professor of Theatre
Gary S. Was, Sc.D., from Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, to Professor of Nuclear
Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Paul Courant, Director of the Institute of Public Policy Studies, appointment extended as Director of the
Institute of Public Policy Studies, for a four-month period
Paul P. Danos, Arthur Andersen Professor of Accounting, reappointed Arthur Andersen Professor of
Accounting, for a five-year period
John D. Forsyth, Executive Director of the University of Michigan Hospitals, reappointed Executive
Director of the University of Michigan Hospitals, for alive-year period, December 1, 1990
James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and Curator Emeritus of Archaeology, Museum of
Anthropology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period, July 1,1990
Joseph E. Hawkins, Jr., Professor Emeritus in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology (Physiological
Acoustics), reappointed to active status, for a one-year period, August 1, 1990
Claude R. Martin Jr., Isadore and Leon Winkelman Professor of Retail Marketing reappointed Isadore
and Leon Wiikelman Professor of Retail Marketing for a three-year period
Ara G. Paul, Dean, College of Pharmacy and Professor of Piarmacognosy, reappointed Dean, College of
Pharmacy, for a five-year period, August 1, 1990
Dennis G. Severance, Arthur Andersen Professor of Computer and Information Systems, reappointed
Arthur Andersen Professor of Computer and Information Systems, for a three-year period,
Herbert Sloan, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period,
July 1, 1990
Erich E. Steiner, Professor Emeritus of Botany, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
William B. Ta ylor Professor Emeritus of Dermatology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period, July 1, 1990
Kenneth E. Vance, Professor Emeritus of School of Information and Library Studies, reappointed to
active status, fall term
William W. Willmarth, Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering, reappointed to active status,
for a two-month period, June 1, 1990
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Jerald G. Bachman from Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research,
to Interim Director of the Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, fall term
Barry N. Checkoway from Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure School of Social Work,
to Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, and Professor of
Urban, Technological, and Environmental Planning, without tenure, College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, for a three-year period
Richard G. Cornell, from Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, to Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure,
and Interim Chair of the Department of Biostatistics, for an indefinite period, July 1, 1990
Harold K. Jacobson, from Director of the Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, and
Jesse Siddal Reeves Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, to Director of the Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, Jesse
Siddal Reeves Professor of Political Science with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Interim Associate Vice President for International Academic Affairs, for a one-year
period, August 1, 1990


-11 -



July Meeting, 1990


Anatole Senkevitch Jr., from Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, to Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, and Associate Professor of History of Art, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
The following committee appointments were approved:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
William R. Paulson, for the fall term, 1990, vice Sharon E. Sutton, on sabbatical
School of Natural Resources Executive Committee
Gary E. Belovsky, for a two-year period, ending May 31, 1992, vice Burton V. Barnes, term expired
University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
John F. Greden, for a four-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice Julian T. Hoff, term expired
University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
John H. Holland for a three-yearperiod, ending August 31, 1993, to succeed himself
Lawrence B. Moor, for a three-year period, endmg August 31, 1993, to succeed himself
Roy A. Rappaport, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1993, vice Raymond C. Kelly, term expired
UM-Dearbom College of Arts Sciences. and Letters Executive Committee
Elton D. Higgs, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1993, vice Ted-Larry Pebworth, term expired
Kazem Mostafapour, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1993, vice John F. Riebesell, term expired
Thomas E. Sunderland Fellow and Visiting Professor of Law. The Regents
approved the appointment of Gordon S. Wood as the Thomas E. Sunderland Fellow
and Visiting Professor of Law for the fall term, 1990.
Visiting Max Kade Distinguished Professor of German. The Regents approved
the appointment of Werner Besch as the Visiting Max Kade Distinguished Professor
of German for the fall term, 1990.
T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics. The Regents
approved the appointments of Stephanie Laederich and Edward Shpiz as the T. H.
Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professors of Mathematics for three-year periods,
effective September 1, 1990.
Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies. The Regents
approved the appointment of Kenneth Stow as the Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting
Professor of Judaic Studies for the winter term, 1991.
J. Robert Willson Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics. The Regents approved the
appointment of Robert H. Hayashi, M.D. as the J. Robert Willson Collegiate
Professor of Obstetrics for a five-year period, effective October 1, 1990.
Associate Dean for Minority Affairs in the Medical School. The Regents
approved the establishment of the position of associate dean for minority affairs in the
Medical School, effective August 1, 1990.
Arthur F. Thurnau Professors. The Regents approved the appointments of the
following individuals as Arthur F. Thurnau Professors: Burton V. Barnes, professor
of forestry; Seyhan N. Ege, professor of chemistry; Yi-tsi Mei Feuerwerker, associate
professor of Asian languages and cultures; Eric S. Rabkin, professor of English
language and literature; and Thomas B. A. Senior, professor of electrical engineering
and computer science; for three-year periods, effective September 1, 1990.


-12 -



July Meeting, 1990


Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry. The Regents approved the
appointment of Robert G. Craig as the Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry,
effective July 1, 1990.
Interim Appointments. The Regents authorized the president or the provost
and vice president for academic affairs to make such interim appointments and/or
changes during the month of August as may become necessary to complete the staffing
for the fall term. All such appointments will be reported to the Regents at the
September meeting.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
William N. Lanen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Accounting
Jonathan M. Paul, A.B., Lecturer in Finance
Paul J. Seguin, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance
School of Dentistrv
Kenneth B. May, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, June 15, 1990
Krista A. Richey, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, June 11, 1990
School of Education
Shari L. Saunders, MA., Assistant Professor of Education
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Sandra A. Bermann, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
Montatip K. Brown, M.A., Lecturer in Thai Language
Robert Chrisman, MA. Lecturer in English Language and Literature and Lecturer in Afroamerican
and African Studies
George D. Dion, M.S., Instructor in Political Science
Aueust Evrard, Ph.D  Assistant Professor of Physics
Michael J. Foote, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences and Assistant Curator, Museum
of Paleontology
Gary D. Glick, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry
Terri L. Orbuch, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Ronen Peretz, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Laura E. Perez, MA., Assistant Professor of Spanish
Thomas F. Roser, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
JoEllen Shively Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Nwachukwu F:. kadike Ph.D., Lecturer in Film and Video Studies and Lecturer in Afroamerican
and African Studies
Alexander V. Vovin, Cand.Phil., Assistant Professor of Japanese Language and Linguistics
Medical School
Charles C. Beeson, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7 1990
Craig A. Bloch, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1990
Randall E. Brand, M.D  Lecturer in Internal Medicine July 1, 1990
Pauline W. L. Chee, M.B.B.S., Clinical Instructor II in Radiology, July 1, 1990
Jeffrey D. Clement, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine July F 1990
Steven R. Cohen. M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1990
Colleen M. Dargie, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1990
Timothy E. Daum, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Christopher M. Goodman M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine July 1, 1990
Cheryl S. Graham, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1990
Michael F. Haney, M.D. Lecturer in Anesthesiology July 20, 1990
Robert V. Hogikyan, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Mark W. Johnson, M.D., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, July 1, 1990


-13 -



July Meeting, 1990


Timothy M. Johnson, M.D., Assistant Professor of Dermatology, Assistant Professor of Surgery, and
Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, July 1 1990
Rory M. Marks M.D   Assistant Professor of nternal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Joe R. Meyer, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July  1990
Bruce R. Nelson, M.D., Assistant Professor f  ermatologyAssistant Professor of Surgery, and
Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1990
Susan H. Noorily, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology July 1, 1990
Parag U. Parikh, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1,190
Gregory E. Plautz, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1990
Charles I. Price, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1990
Peter G. Pryde, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1990
Michael L. Ritchey, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, June 15, 990
Jyotsna K. Shah, M.B.B.S Lecturer in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1990
Steven M. Silverstein, M.B., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1990
Thomas D. Starkey, M.D., Instructor in Surgery July I 1990
Anand Swaroop, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of 6phthaiology and Assistant Professor of Human
Genetics July 1, 1990
Janice L. Vermilion, Ph.D., Lecturer in Biological Chemistry, June 18, 1990
Julian Wan, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1990
Jonathan J. Yobbagy, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 990
William C. Young, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, uly 1, 1990
School of Music
Arthur R. Greene, D.MaA., Assistant Professor of Music (Piano)
Gary J. Lewis, M.M., Assistant Professor of Music (Band)
School of Social Work
Shirley A. Lockery, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Sharon K. Jablonski, M.S.W., Lecturer in Sociology
UM-Dearbom School of Engineenng
Abdallah K. Cherri, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
UM-Dearbom School of Management
Mohamed E. Bayou, Ph.D   Assistant Professor of Business Administration
Daniel L. Tompkins, M.BA., Instructor in Business Administration
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Stephen D. Bernstein, MA., Lecturer in English
Mary A. Kelling, M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre
Mojtaba Vaziri, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Carol M. Bosanko, from Lecturer in Radiology to Instructor in Radiology
James A. Brunberg, from Assistant Professor of Radiology and Assistant Professor of Neurology to
Assistant Professor of Radiology, Assistant Professor of Neurology, and Assistant Professor or
Surgery
Robertson D). Davenport, from Lecturer in Pathology to Assistant Professor of Pathology
Elizabeth A. Garofalo, from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Lecturer in
Neurology to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Assistant
Professor of Neurology
Elaine S. Pomeranz, from Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Clinical Instructor II in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
School of Soial Work
Diane K. Vinokur, from Assistant Dean for Research and Development and Lecturer in Social
Work to Assistant Professor of Social Work, September 1, 1990


-14 -



July Meeting, 1990


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Art
Judith A. Moldenhauer, Assistant Professor of Art, leave without salary, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
School of Business Administration
Victor L. Bernard, Price Waterhouse Professor of Accounting and Professor of Accounting,
with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Susan Chaplinsky, Assistant Professor of Finance, leave without salary, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
William N. Cooke, Associate Professor of Human Resource Management and Industrial Relations,
with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Susan E. Heckler, Assistant Professor of Marketing, personal leave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Cindy A. Schipani, Assistant Professor of Business aw, leave without salary, September 1, 1990 -May 3, 1991
School of Dentistrv
William E. Kotowicz, Senior Associate Dean and Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, administrative
leave, June 17-August 20, 1990
College of Engineering
Will Hansen, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1, 1990-May 31 1991
Robert L.AHess, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, retirement
furlough, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Pierre T. Kabamba, Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
Edward R. Lady, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1990-May 31 1991
Semyon M. Meerkov, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Arthur F. Messiter, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1991
College of Literature, Science. and the Arts
JohnB. Burch, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, Curator of Mollusks, Museum of Zoology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, School of
Natural Resources, sabbatical leave July 1-December 31, 1990
Robert E. Cole, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business Administration, personal
leave September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Robert M. droves, Associate Professor of Sociology, without tenure, intergovernmental leave,
June 19, 1990-February 29, 1992
Donald J. Herzog, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1 1990-May 31, 1991
Alan B. Howes Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1990-May 31,1991
Ludwig Koenen, Chair of the Department of Classical Studies and Herbert C. Youtie Professor of
Papyrology,. sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31 1990
Karen 0. Mason, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, personal feave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
William M. Mason Professor of Sociology, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1990 -Margaret i. Somers, Assistant Professor of Sociology, extended sick leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
Brian J. Thelen, Assistant Professor of Statistics, research leave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Medical School
Michael A. Dipietro, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
May 1-October 31, 1990
Mark W. Johnson, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, duty off campus, July 1-September 16, 1990
Shobha V. Malviya, Instructor in Anesthesiology, personal leave, May Z4-July 31 19J0
Ingrid E. Nygaard, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, personal leave,
May 16-June 30,1990
School of Music
Robert L. Culver, Professor of Music (Music Education), School of Music, and Lecturer in Education,
School of Education, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990


-15 -



July Meeting, 1990


School of Social Work
Howard V. Brabson, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Medical School
William J. Oliver, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, change of
extended sick leave end date, May 16, 1990 (previously reported as May 22, 1990)
UM-Dearbom Academic Affairs
Eugene Arden, Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Professor of English, with tenure,
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, retirement furlough, changed to January 1 -December 31, 1991, (previously reported as July 1, 1990-June 30, 1991)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Dentistr
Eric R. Bakus, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1990
Michael R. Doctor, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1990
David M. Lenhart, Lecturer in Dentistry, May 31, 1990
Walter S. Michajlenko, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 21 1990
Peter R. Sammons, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1990
Steven M. Sullivan, Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, and Lecturer in Oral Surgery, Medical
School, June 30, 1990
School of Education
David D. Starks, Associate Professor of Education, June 30, 1990
Colleee of Engineerin
Yeshaiahu Fainman, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
June 30, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
FredBusch, Lecturer in Psychology, August 31, 1990
James R. Carlopio, Lecturer in Psychology April 30, 1990
Kevin R. Coombes, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 14, 1990
Walter J. Denk, Lecturer in Germanic Languages and Literatures, June 30, 1990
Janet E. Malley Lecturer in Psychology, June 30, 1990
Laurence T. Maloney, Assistant Professor of Psychology May 31, 1990
Jeffrey A. Miron, Associate Professor of Economics, wlth tenure, June 30, 1990
GailAnn Rickert, Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, May 31, 1990
Alfred S. Sussman, Professor of Botany, with tenure, June 30, 1990
Jeremy T. Teitelbaum, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1990
Mary A. Watson, Assistant Professor of Communication, May 31, 1990
Medical School
John M. Andreoni, Instructor in Internal Medicine, June 30, 1990
Christopher J. Batie, Lecturer in Biological Chemistry, June 15, 1990
Ahmet R. Bengur Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 30, 1990
Ronald O. Bufe, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30 1990
Jordan K. Cohen, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30, 1990
Kathryn L. Cook, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30, 1990
Ralph P. Crew, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1990
Shlomo A. Dotan, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1990
Hillel M. Finestone, Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, December 31, 1989
Gerald M. Gacioch, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 30 1990
Sumandeep S. Groh, Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 15, 1990
Katherine Gyves-Ray, Lecturer in Radiology June 30, 1990
Avril A. Haynes-Aaron, Clinical InstructorII in Anesthesiology, June 30, 1990
Anne Hepner, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 30, 1990
Steven R. Hinderer, Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, June 30, 1990
Kamel M. Itani, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1990


-16 -



July Meeting, 1990


Jeffrey V. Kyff Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, June 30, 1990
Steven N. Landau, Lecturer in Anesthesiology June 30, 1990
Randolph Lipchik, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 30 1990
Noe B. Mateo, Lecturer in Internal Medicine June 30, 1940
Fernando L. Medina, Lecturer in Anesthesiology June 23, 1990
Linda A. Morrow Assistant Professor of Interna Medicine, June 8, 1990
Ingrid E. Nygaard, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, June 30, 1990
James H. Festreicher, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 1990
Marc B. Renner Lecturer in Radiology, June 30, 1990
Ralph W. Richardson, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30, 1990
Roger M. Saulson, Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6 1990
Andrew M. Silverstein, Lecturer m Radiology, June 30, 1990
Julie A. Stapleton, Clinical Instructor II in hysical Medicine and Rehabilitation, June 30, 1990
Robert A. Steinr, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, June 30, 1990
John R. Tauscher, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30,1990
Carl F. Tranisi Lecturer in Radiology Tune 30 1990
Arthur J. Vander, Professor of Physiloogy, with tenure, August 31, 1990
Lawrence P. Wood, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30, 1990
School of Nursing
Joyce M. Jenkins, Assistant Professor of Nursing, May 31, 1990
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Maxine B. Zinn, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, May 31, 1990
Retirement Memoirs
The provost and president pointed out the retirement of Alfred S. Sussman,
noting the outstanding service he had given to the University over many years. Regent
Baker commented about the accomplishments of Professor Arthur J. Vander. On a
motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted unanimously
to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Francis E. Fisher, associate professor of mechanical engineering, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 1990.
Professor Fisher began his undergraduate career at The Ohio State University
in 1940. His studies were interrupted in 1942 when he began four years of service with
the United States Marine Corps as a 2nd lieutenant in the Atlantic Fleet. When he
returned, he resumed his studies at the University of California at Berkeley, and
earned his B.S. degree (industrial engineering) in 1949. Following graduate work at
Berkeley, Professor Fisher joined the engineering staff at IBM Coporation, where he
was involved in the design of high-speed mechanisms and later, the formation of a
mechanical analysis laboratory that investigated problems associated with the
dynamics of mechanisms.
Professor Fisher came to the University of Michigan in 1959 as a visiting
lecturer and established a mechanical analysis laboratory modeled after the IBM
laboratory. His work on the laboratory was cited by colleagues as a significant and
important contribution to the department. He then returned briefly to IBM, but
rejoined the University of Michigan in the Department of Mechanical Engineering in
1960 as a lecturer while pursuing his graduate studies in instrumentation engineering.
In 1964, Professor Fisher earned his M.S. degree and was promoted to associate
professor.
In academics, Professor Fisher's primary interest has been giving future
engineers the tools to apply engineering science to practical problems, especially
mechanical design problems. He has worked continually to update the Systems
Dynamics Laboratory, and introduced software for the digital simulation of
experiments involving linear systems. In 1978, Tau Beta Pi recognized his efforts by
selecting him as Outstanding Professor in the College of Engineering for 1977-78.


-17 -



July Meeting, 1990


Professor Fisher has headed the course on instrumentation for mechanical analysis,
offered through the Engineering Summer Conference Program, for more than ten
years, and has given short courses on instrumentation to engineers at IBM, Gleason
Works, and Ford Motor Company.
A number of professional societies have benefited from Professor Fisher's
background in mechanical analysis and instrumentation. He served on the Society of
Automotive Engineering's instrumentation subcommittee and the Instrument Society
of America's automotive instrumentation committee and has been a member of the
American Society for Metals, the Society for Experimental Stress Analysis, and the
American Society for Engineering Education. He is also a member of Phi Eta Sigma,
Tau Beta Pi, and Sigma Xi. Professor Fisher has contributed to the department and to
the University through his service on the program committee, the engineering sciences
committee, and the college's discipline and scholastic committees.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many
contributions by naming Francis E. Fisher Associate Professor Emeritus of
Mechanical Engineering.
Carl M. Pearcy, Jr., professor of mathematics, will retire from active faculty
status on August 31, 1990, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
Born in Beaumont, Texas, Professor Pearcy received his B.A. degree in 1954
and his M.S. degree in 1956 from Texas A and M College. He received his Ph.D.
degree from Rice University in 1960.
From 1960-61, Professor Pearcy was a postdoctoral fellow at Rice University.
He then worked as a research engineer at Humble Oil & Refining Company from
1961-63. Professor Pearcy came to the University of Michigan in 1963 as a T. H.
Hildebrandt Research Instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1964,
associate professor in 1966, and professor in 1968.
Professor Pearcy has had a very distinguished research career that continues
unabated. He has done fundamental work in the study of bounded linear operators on
Hilbert space. In early work, he and Arlen Brown determined the structure of those
operators which can be expressed as the commutator of two bounded operators. In
more recent work, he and collaborators developed dual algebra techniques into a
powerful tool which has enabled them to obtain deep and far reaching results on the
existence of invariant subspaces, together with other structure theorems for broad
classes of operators. A prolific author, Professor Pearcy has published over one
hundred articles, two monographs (Some Recent Progress in Operator Theory and, with
H. Bercovici and C. Foias, Invariant Subspaces, Dilation Theory and Dual Algebras),
and two books [Topics in Operator Theory and Introduction to Operator Theory I (with
A. Brown)]. A quiet man, he is quite gregarious when collaborating on research and
has had twenty-three different coauthors.
Professor Pearcy has directed twenty doctoral theses and is presently directing
three others. He has served on many departmental committees, including the
executive committee and the doctoral committee. He served as managing editor of
the Michigan Mathematical Journal for seven years, and as chair of the editorial board
of Mathematical Reviews for six years. He held many visiting positions in this country
and in France, and was a distinguished visiting professor at Bucknell University on
several occasions.
The Regents now salute this distinguished mathematician for his dedicated
service as a researcher and teacher by naming Carl M. Pearcy, Jr., Professor Emeritus
of Mathematics.


-18 -



July Meeting, 1990


David D. Starks, associate professor of education, associate professor of
dentistry, and research scientist, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1990,
after 23 years of service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Starks received his A.B. degree in 1957 from Wheaton College, his
M.A. degree in 1965 from Northern Illinois University, and his Ph.D. degree in 1967
from Purdue University. Between 1957 and 1964, he taught at elementary, junior high,
and senior high schools in Illinois and Michigan. During the summers of 1967 and
1968, he worked as a visiting assistant professor at Purdue University.
Professor Starks joined the University of Michigan in 1967 as a research
associate. He was named assistant professor of education in 1968, research scientist in
1970, and was promoted to associate professor of education and associate professor of
dentistry in 1972. In the School of Education, he taught courses in educational
measurement and technology of learning. In the Center for Research on Learning and
Teaching, he served as a consultant to faculty, instructional technology program
director, and consultant and researcher in technology, computers, instructional design
and evaluation. Professor Starks has served as director of the Office of Educational
Resources at the School of Dentistry since 1987.
In his work with three separate University units, Professor Starks has managed
to combine his interests in education, technology, and dental education to produce
effective teaching methods as well as innovative research topics. Both his scholarly
publications and funded research projects reflect this multidisciplinary approach to his
work. Professor Starks' committee service at both the school and university levels
reflect his broad interests: educational affairs committee, School of Dentistry; advisory
committee, Doctoral Program in Instructional Technology, School of Education; and
the advisory committee to the vice president for student services.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his contributions
to the University by naming David D. Starks Associate Professor Emeritus of
Education, Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, and Research Scientist
Emeritus.
Alfred S. Sussman, professor of botany and former dean of the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, retired from active faculty status on June 30,
1990, following 40 years of service at the University of Michigan.
In 1941, after receiving his B.S. degree from the University of Connecticut,
Professor Sussman entered the military, exiting four years later with the rank of
captain. After receiving his A.M. degree in 1948 and his Ph.D. degree in 1949 from
Harvard University, Professor Sussman joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
instructor in 1950. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1953, associate professor
in 1957, and professor in 1961. His research has embraced the fields of biochemistry,
physiology, and genetics, generating more than 80 scholarly publications. Beginning
with investigations into the mechanisms of oxidation reactions that produce color
changes in insects, Professor Sussman next turned his attention to the field of
respiratory activity in the mold Neurospora testrasperma, and conducted extensive
experiments on regulation of metabolic activities by both chemical and environmental
factors.
Neurospora has continued to dominate Professor Sussman's career. His
publications on spore germination, oxidative activities, metabolism, and the properties
of the surfaces of these cells parallel the enormous growth in scientific interest that
now surrounds the molds as model experimental organisms. Other contributions
include work on a classic set of Neurospora mutants which have altered biological
clocks, and publications on development and ultrastructure of the organism. Among
the awards Professor Sussman has received are a senior post-doctoral fellowship from


-19 -



July Meeting, 1990


the National Science Foundation in support of a sabbatical year spent at Caltech, and
a Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award from the University of Michigan.
In addition to his work in the laboratory and his classroom teaching duties,
Professor Sussman has served in a number of highly visible administrative roles at the
University. Although he is perhaps best-known for his leadership as dean of the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies from 1974-85, Professor Sussman
also served as chair of the Department of Botany from 1963-68, and as associate dean
(1968-70) and acting dean (1970-71) of the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts. Other administrative roles include service as interim vice president for academic
affairs and interim vice president for graduate studies and research.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished scholarly and
research activities and his many outstanding contributions to University leadership by
naming Alfred S. Sussman Professor Emeritus of Botany and Dean Emeritus of the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.
Arthur J. Vander, M.D., professor of physiology, will retire from active faculty
status on August 31, 1990, after a long and productive career as a teacher and
researcher.
A native of Michigan, Dr. Vander received his A.B. and M.D. degrees from the
University of Michigan m 1955 and 1959, respectively. He interned at the New York
Hospital, Cornell Medical Center, and then returned to the University of Michigan in
1960 as an instructor of physiology. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1962,
associate professor in 1965, and professor in 1969.
Dr. Vander began studying kidney function as a medical student. After joining
the faculty, his research quickly led to his seminal work on the role of sodium in the
control of renin secretion in which he developed the macula densa theory. His
subsequent research has dealt with various aspects of renal physiology, heavy metal
toxicity, and most recently, body temperature regulation. He received the Henry
Russel Award in 1968.
Dr. Vander has played a major role in medical, graduate, and undergraduate
education. He has administered and taught medical physiology and has served on
essentially all of the various Medical School committees dealing with education and
with a variety of other issues, ranging from animal care to academic freedom to
misconduct in research. For his excellence in teaching, he has received a variety of
awards, culminating in his being chosen as the first recipient of the University of
Michigan Medical School's Lifetime Achievement Award for Excellence in Teaching,
presented to him in 1990.
Among Dr. Vander's publications are his book, Human Physiology: The
Mechanisms of Disease, written with Drs. J. Sherman and D. Luciano, which is now in
its 5th edition, and his monograph Renal Physiology, now in its 4th edition. Dr. Vander
has also served on the education committee of several national organizations and as
part of the National Board of Medical Examiners.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Arthur J. Vander Professor Emeritus of Physiology.
Memorials
There were no deaths reported to the Regents this month.


-20 -



July Meeting, 1990


Degrees
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists.
They also approved the tentative doctoral degree list for the August 1990
commencement.
Addition of Investment Options for the University Retirement Plan
Vice President Womack described a request to permit retirement plan
participants to select Fidelity Funds (excluding the Select Funds) and Calvert Funds
(excluding nondiversified funds) in addition to the TIAA/CREF funds for investment
in the basic retirement plan.
Regent Baker observed that this action would signify the retirement plan's
becoming more of an investment vehicle than a retirement plan, and questioned the
effect of such an action on the University's responsibility to provide for the retirements
of its faculty and staff. Vice President Womack responded that the University has
never had a defined benefit pension program, only a defined contribution program.
He noted that the proposed addition of investment vehicles are options; participants
are free to choose them or remain with their current investment vehicles.
Following further discussion, Regent Power moved, and Regent Roach
seconded, that participants in the basic retirement plan be permitted to choose
Fidelity Funds (excluding Select Funds) and Calvert Funds (excluding nondiversified
funds) in addition to TIAA/CREF Funds as investments in their retirement account,
effective January 1, 1991, or as soon as administratively possible. The motion was
approved on a vote of six to one, with Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith,
and Varner in favor and Regent Baker opposed.
East University Area Central Chiller Plant and Chilled Water Loop
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously authorized the following actions concerning construction of the East
University area central chiller plant and chilled water loop: Award of the construction
contract for structural work to the low bidder, F.J. Jones & Company, and
authorization to award the mechanical and electrical contracts, if within budget, when
the bids are received.
FranSois-Xavier Bagnoud Building for Aerospace Engineering
Mr. Fred Mayer, University planner, displayed an architectural rendering and
model illustrating proposed design revisions for the Frangois-Xavier Bagnoud Building
for Aerospace Engineering. Following some discussion, Regent Smith moved,
seconded by Regent Baker, approval of the revised schematic design. The motion was
approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals Child Care Center
Vice President Womack noted that this proposal was being resubmitted to the
Regents, after having been tabled the previous month pending clarification of whether
the program would include kindergarten. He reported that the center would not


-21 -



July Meeting, 1990


include a kindergarten program, but would accommodate children of kindergarten
age. Following some discussion, Regent Power moved, Regent Roach seconded, and
the Regents unanimously approved the budget and project design, and authorization
to receive bids and award a construction contract, provided the contract value is within
the approved budget.
Medical Science Research Building III
Vice Provost Zuidema reported that the recommendation to construct a third
medical science research building is in response to the extreme shortage of research
space at the Medical School, and described how the proposed new space would be
used. Dr. Giles Bole, interim dean of the Medical School, noted that the proposed
new building is viewed as an extremely important addition to the campus.
Mr. Douglas Hanna, assistant director of capital programs, displayed
illustrations of the proposed building site, and noted that the proposed site had been
identified in the 1980 Medical Center Master Plan as a building site.
Following some discussion, Regent Varner moved approval for initiating the
design process of the Medical Science Research Building III (MSRB III) project, the
site located immediately south and west of MSRB I, and the appointment of Jickling
Lyman & Powell Associates, Inc. of Birmingham, Michigan, as the architect. Regent
Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Michigan Student Assembly 1990-91 Fee Request
Vice President Swain responded to the Regents' concerns about new students
being assessed fees to pay for the effects of mismanagement of funds by past MSA
administration. She noted that the majority of the deficit had been caused by
overspending on student programs; thus 75 per cent of this year's students could have
directly benefited from those programs, as could about 50 per cent of next year's
students.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, MSA president, Van Valey, said
that the majority of the proposed increase for Student Legal Services would be used
for equipment and for salary increases for existing personnel. Regent Baker then
questioned Ms. Van Valey about why she had vetoed an attempt by her predecessor,
Aaron Williams, on his last day as president, to transfer $10,000 in MSA funds as
payment on the MSA loan. She explained that she had vetoed the payment because
Mr. Williams hadn't followed MSA policies in taking this action, and noted that such
an expenditure would have left MSA with insufficient funding for the remainder of its
fiscal year.
Ms. Van Valey then responded to questions from Regent Nielsen about MSA's
activities, its procedures for approving requests for funding by student organizations,
progress toward its debt retirement, and about the fiscal situation regarding Student
Legal Services. Regent Nielsen said that he did not agree with Vice President Swain's
comments that current students could have benefited from past overspending on the
part of MSA, and stated that he could not support a tax on current students to pay for
past overspending. Ms. Van Valey noted that the debt is being retired according to a
set schedule, that the repayment is a top priority, and that measures are in place to
ensure that such a situation would not happen again.


-22 -



July Meeting, 1990


Regent Brown cautioned the Regents not to get involved in decisions regarding
how MSA spends its money. He observed that student government is a necessary
component of campus life and that even though everone might not agree with MSA's
actions, it serves a necessary function. He noted that low voter turnout in elections is
not unique to MSA. Regent Brown concluded that he felt the proposed increase was
not unreasonable, and moved its approval. Regent Varner seconded the motion.
In response to a question from Regent Power, Mr. Rodger Wolf, assistant to the
vice president for student services, said that as of July 31, the remaining balance of
MSA's debt would be $32,843. At a repayment rate of $1,910 per month, it would be
paid off in February 1992. He reported that there is no penalty for prepayment, and
that during the past year, Student Legal Services had made two extra payments of
$5,000 each. Ms. Van Valey said that if it were possible during the coming fiscal year,
MSA would consider further additional payments on the loan.
Regent Baker moved that there be no increase in MSA fees for the coming year
as a substitute for Regent Brown's motion. Regent Roach seconded the motion.
Regent Roach reviewed the recet history of student government at the University of
Michigan, noting tthat the current student government leaders are attempting to make
up for the mistakes of past administrations. He questioned the need for a 6.5 per cent
fee increase, in view of the fact that other University units will face budget cuts and
very modest compensation increases.
Ms. Van Valey responded that in establishing its budget, MSA personnel had
attempted to be conscientious and responsible in determining priorities for funding.
The fee request would be used to fund a 5 per cent raise for Student Legal Services
personnel, which would be the first increase in two years, and for the addition of a
half-time position to the staff of the Tenants Union. Regent Roach said that the trend
in higher education in the future would be for incremental growth by substitution, and
that MSA would have to learn to manage that way, too.
Regarding Mr. Williams' attempt to pay $10,000 toward repayment of the MSA
loan, Regent Smith asked how much would have been saved in interest charges had
that payment been made. Mr. Wolf responded that he did not have the figures with
him, but estimated that the savings would have been about $500. [Mr. Wolf later
determined that the interest payments avoided would have totaled $1,561.] In
response to further questions from Regent Smith, Ms. Van Valey said that the $10,000
that Mr. Williams had tried to transfer to the debt repayment had been intended for
MSA operations for the remainder of its fiscal year, and that the current budget, in
effect until August 31, 1990, would have been overdrawn if this expenditure had
occurred.
Regent Baker's motion to maintain 1990-91 student fee assessments for MSA at
their current levels was adopted, with Regents Baker, Nielsen, Roach, and Smith in
favor, Regents Brown, Power, and Varner opposed, and Regent Waters absent.
Regent Brown clarified that his motion was intended to include student fees for
school and college governments and for Michigan Collegiate Coalition, at $1.00 and
$.35 per student per term, respectively. Regent Roach asked to receive a report on
the current budget and financial status of Rackham student government.


-23 -



July Meeting, 1990


1990-91 Revenue Budgets; 1990-91 Student Fee Rates for All Three Campuses
Regent Brown moved, and Regent Baker seconded, approval of the 1990-91
summary revenue budgets and student fee rates for all three campuses. Regent Brown
commended the president for keeping his word in holding the resident undergraduate
fee increase to 6.5 per cent, and in developing a workable budget in the face of
insufficient funding from the state. Regent Roach commented that a public debate
should be undertaken on behalf of all the state's public universities to determine what
are acceptable costs to the public of having an educated populace. He pointed out
that for 25 per cent of the cost of attending an Ivy League institution, University of
Michigan students can receive an equivalent education, which makes it the best
bargain in higher education.
Regent Baker observed that the University is losing its ability to be competitive
for out of state students, especially in the professional schools. He asked the president
to review the recently completed state budget and appropriations process. The
president said that during the past fall, the state's public universities had challenged
the legislature to develop a plan for taking the state from the bottom third to the top
third in funding for higher education. Although the state did make education a
priority, the increased funding is less than the Higher Education Price Index, which
means that there is further erosion in support. He also noted that consistent with
recent past practice, the Ann Arbor campus ranked last among the other state
institutions in the percentage of its increase. He pointed out that the University is a
resource of enormous importance to the state, noting some of the recent achievements
of University students, faculty, and athletes that had received national publicity. The
president concluded that if the state does not restore an adequate level of funding,
there will be no choice but to increase the tuition for Michigan residents.
Regent Varner expressed her support of the budget and student fees, and
commended the president for the initiatives he had taken in holding down the resident
undergraduate fee increase and in trying to impress upon the people and the
legislature the need for improvement in higher education funding.
Regent Smith said that she was troubled by the effect that the proposed student
fee increase would have on middle class families. She expressed her concern that if
costs continue to increase, the University of Michigan will no longer be affordable for
either residents or nonresidents.
There being no further comments, the vote was taken and the motion was
approved, with Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Roach, Power, and Varner in favor,
Regent Smith opposed, and Regent Waters absent.
Change in Name of Division of Physical Education to Division of Kinesiology
Provost Vest said that the proposed name change follows national trends, and is
recommended by the National Academy of Physical Education. In response to a
question from Regent Nielsen, Mr. Dee Edington, director of the Division of Physical
Education, reported that seven of the Big Ten schools have adopted this name, as
have many other prominent universities nationally.


-24 -



July Meeting, 1990


On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted
unanimously to change the name of the Division of Physical Education to the Division
of Kinesiology.
New Degree Title in the School of Music: "Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre"
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved creation of a new degree, Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theatre, to
be conferred by the School of Music.
Bylaws for the School of Dentistry
Provost Vest reported that the proposed bylaws would replae the interim
bylaws that are currently in effect at the School of Dentistry. In response to a question
from Regent Roach, Provost Vest said that the governing faculty would include fulltime faculty and part-time faculty who have at least 50 per cent appointments. He also
noted that the number of part-time Dental School faculty has dropped in recent years
from 45 per cent to 35 per cent of the governing faculty, and that this number would
continue to decline. Regent Roach requested that the bylaws be reviewed by the
general counsel to clarify some details that are unclear or not addressed. The provost
suggested that such a review could occur after the bylaws are adopted.
Regent Smith moved approval of the bylaws for the School of Dentistry. Regent
Baker seconded the motion, subject to Regent Roach's comments, and it was
approved unanimously. President Duderstadt suggested that the school also review
again the issue of the make-up of the governing faculty.
Medical School Faculty Appointment and Tenure According to Bylaw Section 5.23
(Clinical Faculty Sequence)
Provost Vest reported that implementation of the full-time clinical faculty
sequence in the Medical School, which created a full-time, nontenure-track clinical
appointment sequence, had been reviewed after the bylaw had been in effect for three
years. The provost, after consultation with SACUA, the executive committee of the
Medical School, and an ad hoc review committee, was recommending that the fulltime, nontenured clinical track appointment sequence be continued.
Following some discussion, Regent Baker asked that the Regents continue to
receive annual reports on how well the clinical faculty sequence is working.
Nontenure-Track Clinical Appointment Sequence in the Law School
Provost Vest said that the Law School was recommending the creation of a
nontenure-track clinical appointment sequence which would permit the appointment
of full-time clinical instructional staff for periods of up to seven years. He noted that
this proposal had the unanimous approval of the Law School faculty and dean. If this
recommendation were approved in principle, Bylaw 5.23 would be revised following
established procedures.
Regent Brown moved, seconded by Regent Smith, approval of the creation of a
nontenure-track clinical appointment sequence for full-time clinicians in the Law


-25 -



July Meeting, 1990


School. Provost Vest and Professor Edward Cooper, associate dean for academic
affairs in the Law School, responded to questions from the Regents about how the
clinical appointment sequence would operate. The vote was then taken, and the
motion was approved unanimously.
Membership for the Museum of Art in the American Arts Alliance
Regent Nielsen moved approval of membership for the Museum of Art in the
American Arts Alliance. Regent Smith seconded the motion.
Regent Baker noted that the American Arts Alliance supports lobbying efforts
on behalf of the point of view that there be no controls by the National Endowment
for the Arts (NEA) on the artwork produced with NEA grant money. He then quoted
from an article in the Wall Street Journal which described examples of artwork which
had been rejected for funding by the NEA. He noted that some art is destructive of
society and the family and the church, but that as an advocate of the right of freedom
of speech he would support the motion.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Reassignment of University's Ownership in Intellectual Property (John M. Nicklas,
M.D.)
Vice President Kelly noted that the date on the summary page of the action
request should be changed to read July 16, 1990, not July 9, 1990.
Regent Brown moved, and Regent Power seconded, approval of a standard
assignment agreement with John M. Nicklas, M.D., a University employee, in
accordance with the standard terms approved by the Board of Regents on July 16,
1987. The motion was approved unanimously by all seven Regents present.
This arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute,
as the employee/inventor is a University employee and will also be party to the
assignment agreement. The following information is provided in accordance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of
Michigan and John M. Nicklas.
2.   The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby
incorporated by reference in this action.
Membership for the University Library in the ARL/CAUSE/EDUCOM Coalition on
Information Resources for NREN (National Research and Education Network)
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved membership for the University Library in the ARL/CAUSE/
EDUCOM Coalition on Information Resources for NREN (the National Research
and Education Network).


-26 -



July Meeting, 1990


There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on September 20-21, 1990. Regents' transportation, accommodation,
telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of June 1990 totalled $1,372.43.
Richard L. ennedy, Secreta


-27 -



SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 20, 1990
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Varner.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Vice President
Womack to present the annual financial statements and year-end financial
information.
University Annual Financial Statements for 1989-90
Referring to the Report of Independent Auditors for the University's financial
statements for the years ended June 30, 1990, and 1989, Vice President Womack
pointed out that Ernst & Young had given an unqualified opinion of the University's
statements of its financial condition as of June 30, 1990, and that this reflected very
favorably on the University. He then called on Mr. Chandler Matthews, controller of
the university, to present the year-end financial information for 1989-90.
University Annual Financial Statements for 1989-90; Year-End Financial Information
for 1989-90
Mr. Matthews gave a slide presentation comparing statistics for the years
1980-81 and 1989-90 for the Educational and General Funds (consisting of General,
Designated, and Expendable/Restricted Funds) and for the Auxiliary Activities Funds
(hospitals, medical, and other self-supporting operations) for all three campuses for
both revenues and expenditures. He noted that the proportion of educational and
general revenues from student fees had increased from 22.8 per cent in 1980-81 to 28.9
per cent in 1989-90, while revenue from state appropriation had decreased from 34.9
per cent to 28.7 per cent in that same period and had remained at constant levels when
adjusted for inflation during the past three years. He also pointed out that in 1980-81
the General Fund component of these funds consisted of 54.2 per cent state
appropriation and 36.0 per cent student fees. In 1989-90, the proportions had shifted
to 45.3 per cent from student fees and 44.4 per cent from state appropriations. Private
gifts had increased from 7.0 per cent of current funds in 1980-81 to 9.8 per cent in
1989-90. Auxiliary Activities revenues in 1989-90 totaled about $720 million, of which
nearly $630 million was attributable to hospital and medical activities. Revenues from
all sources increased from $695 million in 1980-81 to $1.67 billion in 1989-90, for a
total compound growth rate of 10.2 per cent.
For the expenditures and transfers budget, salaries, wages, and staff benefits
totaled 65.5 per cent of the current funds budget in 1980-81 as opposed to 60.8 per
cent for 1989-90. Equipment and plant expenditures went from 5.7 per cent in 1980-81
to 7.9 per cent of expenditures in 1989-90, and expenditures for scholarships and
fellowships increased from 7.3 per cent to 8.4 per cent during that period. Total
expenditures increased from $665 million in 1980-81 to $1.63 billion in 1989-90, for a
total compound growth rate of 10.5 per cent.


-29 -



September Meeting, 1990


Mr. Matthews concluded that the University had received a clean opinion from
Ernst & Young, all funds had been properly accounted for, and the University was
solvent. He pointed out that the recent action of Standard & Poors, improving the
University's bond rating from AA- to AA+, provided an objective measure of the
University's financial strength and ability to manage its affairs.
Mr. Matthews and Vice President Womack then responded to questions from
the Regents about specific findings contained in the financial reports. It was pointed
out that increased costs for supplies over the past ten years correspond to the necessity
of equipping students, faculty, and staff with personal computers and other
technological innovations as well as increased costs for books and journals. In
response to a question from Regent Roach about a shortfall in revenue in University
housing, Vice President Womack explained that this is due to decisions by students not
to move from three per room to two per room when given the opportunity, coupled
with the increased availability of apartments in Ann Arbor in recent years.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously adopted the annual financial statements for 1989-90.
1990-91 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Womack to present the 1990-91
revenue and expenditure operating budgets. Vice President Womack said that the
$1,762,935,000 revenue budget consists of $632.3 million (36 per cent) for the General
Fund, $58 million (3 per cent) for the Designated Fund, $777.7 million (44 per cent)
for the Auxiliary Activities Fund, and $295 million (17 per cent) for the Expendable
Restricted Fund.
Provost Whitaker described the General Fund revenue by source, noting that
the General Fund consists of 46 per cent tuition and fees, 44 per cent state
appropriation, 7 per cent indirect cost recovery, and 2 per cent other revenue, for a
total of $632 million. He then went over the information contained in the 1990-91
budget book, giving details of budget allocations by program and by school, college,
and vice presidential area. Vice President Womack presented detailed information
about the Designated, Auxiliary Activities, and Expendable Restricted Funds.
Following the presentation, President Duderstadt, Vice President Womack, and
Provost Whitaker responded to questions from the Regents about details of the
revenue and expenditure budgets. In response to a comment from Regent Power, the
president noted that because of the uncertainty of state and national economic
conditions, the University has been running models in an effort to determine what
effect this uncertainty would have on the University's finances. He said that the
University has the ability to manage its resources and weather a difficult period in
such a way as to protect the quality of its programs and the access to them, and that
officials are considering both the immediate future as well as the long-term.
Provost Whitaker added that he has asked the deans to maintain budget
flexibility in the face of possible rollbacks, and that a subcommittee of deans has been
formed to look at more specific plans for dealing with this possibility. Vice President
Womack said that he was confident of the ability of University managers to be able to
make general plans for handling budget deficits in the event these should occur,


-30 -



September Meeting, 1990


without having specific plans too far in advance.
The president noted that the strengths of the University are the quality of its
people that give it the capacity to deal with these issues, the Board's experience in the
1970s and 1980s in confronting similar economic situations, and the institution's
traditional autonomy in dealing with adversity in such a way as to protect its quality
and access.
Following further discussion, Regent Roach moved, and Regent Nielsen
seconded, approval of the 1990-91 revenue and expenditure operating budgets,
totaling $1,762,935,000 in revenues and $1,731,894,000 in expenditures. The motion
was approved unanimously.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
There followed a short recess, after which Regent Roach made the following
motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(a) of the Open Meetings Act, as amended by 1984
PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session in the Regents'
Room on September 20, 1990, at 5:00 P.M., for the purpose of conducting
periodic personnel evaluations of employees who have requested a closed session
evaluation.
Regent Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of July 19-20, 1990.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
University Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory as of June 30, 1990, Plant Extension,
Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. He also discussed a graph he had
distributed separately which depicts the one-year change on a day-by-day basis of the
Standard & Poors 500 Index from 1981-90. The graph illustrates the risks inherent in
market timing.
Investment Report. Vice President Womack and University Investment Officer
Norman Herbert then responded to questions from the Regents about the investment
report. They noted that the number of mortgage transactions has increased
significantly since last year, and that mortgages represent a good yield over other fixed
income investments.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Vice President Womack
explained that the tactical asset allocation program is conceptually not a timing
strategy, but its actual application often is. He explained how this program works, and
noted that it was entered into as a short term effort to protect the endowment until it
became more diversified; however, it has not performed as expected. In response to


-31 -



September Meeting, 1990


further questions, he commented about the extremely poor performance of the tactical
asset allocation program, about the current market environment, and about the
University's strategy of investing in value stocks, as opposed to growth stocks.
Research Reports.      Vice President Kelly submitted reports on Projects
Established —Research and Other Activities for July 1-31 and August 1-31, 1990, and
Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored Projects. Regent
Roach reported that he had visited the University's research vessel, the Laurentian, on
Lake Michigan, and the Biological Station at Douglas Lake, and had thus learned first
hand of their tremendous value as research and teaching facilities.
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted Reports of Gifts Received for June, July,
and August 1990 and the Summary Report of Fiscal Year 1989-90. On a motion by
Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents received the following gifts
with thanks and in accordance with their terms and conditions:
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 15,450
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the
Institute of Gerontology                                                   166,653
American Diabetes Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           7,448
American Federation for Aging Research New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          12,450
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          11,000
American Medical Association Education and Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the Medical School                                           23,550
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            10,268
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                          14,000
American Society of Hematology, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the Medical School                                           7,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research m the Medical School                                           23,833
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research m the Medical School                                            6,667
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Fund in the College of Architecture and
Urban Planning                                                               5,000
Lynde & Harry Bradley Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the Law School                                              20,000
David A. Brandon Foundation, Northville
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              20,000
Brencanda Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                           50,000
Robert W. Browne, Ada
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics             150,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                                  210,500
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          14,998


-32 -



September Meeting, 1990


Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for the Engineering CAD/CAM Laboratory at the University of Michigan Dearborn  20,000
Gertrude Clark Estate
for education and research in the Medical School                            364,374
Marlin Cole and Connie Belin Charitable Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for the Belin Lecture Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  60,000
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Fluid Dynamics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                              15,450
Bruce C. Conybeare, St. Joseph
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Undergraduate Admissions Support Fund                    36,300
Lena Mott Crocker Estate
for undergraduate student aid                                                50,000
Dayton-Hudson Department Store Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane                                       25,000
Deloitte Haskins and Sells Foundation, New York, New York
for capital support of the School of Business Administration                 14,000
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                7,250
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for chemical
sciences facilities in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts     257,500
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for neurobiology research in the School of Public Health                     35,000
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the School of Business Administration                         5,000
Ernst & Young Foundation Cleveland, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  28,220
Exxon Company, U.SA., Houston, Texas
for the Exxon Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,700
Charles E. Fisher, Lansing
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               25,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and the Institute
for Social Research                                                          40,667
Fraternal Order of Eagles Memorial Foundation Fund, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for Alzheimer's research in the Medical School                                5,000
GE Corporate Pooled Services, Fort Myers, Florida
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute          10,000
Wood and Rosemary Geist, Romeo
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      15,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  30,119
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Charles H. Gershenson Piano Fund in the School of Music              92,844
Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Foundation, Southfield
Public utility securities; for the Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Fund in the Medical School  31,242
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for the David G. Dickinson Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School    10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph I. Goldstein, Washington, D.C.
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts               5,000
Leon Greenspan, Burlingame, California
for the David G. Dickmson Academic Advancement Fund in the Medical School    10,000
Greenwich Pharmaceuticals, Fort Washington, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical SchooF                                           17,875
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Halliburton Services, Division of Halliburton Company, Duncan Oklahoma
for the Fluid Dynamics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Dorothy Copeland Hanawalt Estate
for the Arthur H. Copeland, Sr., Memorial Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        30,290


-33 -



September Meeting, 1990


J. Ira & Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago Illinois
for the Sports Service Buulding in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Shirley & Barnett Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City Missouri
for the Helzberg Scholarship in the School of Business Administration        10,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School                                           32,500
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation Menlo Park, California
for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies             25,000
Herman Hirschfeld Foundation, Orange Village, Ohio
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Hoffman-LaRoche Inc. Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      30,000
Jane Erickson Hopkins, Bloomfield Hills
for the School of Music                                                       5,000
Howmedica, Inc., Rutherford, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Hughes Fund in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  10,200
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
tor research in the Medical School                                           15,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute           7,500
Inland Fisher Guide Division of General Motors Corporation, Troy
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute          15,000
J. P. Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the John Psarouthakis Research Professorship in the School of Business
Administration                                                              200,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry        8,800
Barbara Piasecka Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                            5,090
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,400
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute for Social Research  24,671
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario
for research in the Medical School                                           13,500
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           16,075
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the Medical School                                           60,000
John Harvey Kellogg Estate
for the JohnHarvey Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School               15,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Institute for Social Research, and for Employee Matching Gifts  62,744
Elizabeth E. Kennedy Fund, Ann Arbor
for research m the Medical School                                            25,000
Knight Foundation, Akron, Ohio
for the Knight Speciality Fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                            100,000
Kraft General Foods Foundation Glenview, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,760
Louis A. Kwiker, Torrance, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   10,000
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Medical School  6,650
Lawrence B. Lmdemer Stockbridge
500 shares of CMS Energy Corporation common stock for the Lawrence B. Lindemer
Fund a Donor Pooled Income Fund contribution for the ultimate benefit of the Law
School and the Alumni Association                                            15,469
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for fellowships and research in the College of Engineering                   16,000
Lockheed Missiles and Space Company, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           37,500


-34 -



September Meeting, 1990


James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts              8,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                     9,526
Agnes C. and Frank D. McKayTrusts
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                 1,500,000
Alice H. McLachlin Estate
for the Alice H. McLachlin Student Loan Fund in the Medical School          650,000
Mary Upiohn Meader, Parchment
13 000 shares of Upjohn Company common stock; for the Mary Upjohn Meader Fund,
a Donor Pooled Income Fund contribution for the ultimate benefit of the
University of Michigan                                                      519,188
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Program for Inter-Institutional Collaboration in Area Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                400,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for support of the School of Business Administration                          5,000
Monsanto Fund, St. Louis, Missouri
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  13,830
NBD-GeneseeBank, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library and Learning Center, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                               50,298
N.C.R. Corporation, Dayton, Ohio
for computer research in the College of Engineering                          25,000
National Alopecia Areata Foundation San Rafael, California
for research in the Medical School                                            8,750
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                          24,602
National Neurofibromatosis Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           19,000
National Vascular Malformations Foundation, Inc., Dearborn Heights
for research in the Medical School                                           16,000
Edward J. Neithercut, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library and Learning Center             10,000
Carroll V. Newsom Estate
for the Carroll V. Newsom Mathematics Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       100,000
Ann L. Nickoll, Beverly Hills, California
for the Humanties Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  15,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
John T. Norton Estate
for the Michigan Historical Collections                                       5,000
Robert B. Olsen Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       11,054
Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, Raritan, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           99,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           12,079
Mr. and Mrs. Donald G. Otero, Birmingham
for the Virginia and Donald Otero Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  6,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia Pennsylvania
for research in the School ot Public Health                                  69,000
Pfizer, Inc., Groton, Connecticut
for the Pfizer Fellowship and for the building fund in the College of Pharmacy  54,000
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               15,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
for capital gifts pending designation                                        10,000
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sadye Harwick Power Fund in the College of Literature Science,
and the Arts, and for the Neil Staebler Political Education Fund in the Institute
of Public Policy Studies                                                     30,000
Helen Aubrey Pratt, Longwood, Florida
Additional cash contribution for the Helen A. Pratt Fund, a Donor Pooled Income
Fund contribution for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        20,000


-35 -



September Meeting, 1990


Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust Grand Rapids
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 6,097
Research Fund of the American Otological Society, Bronx, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           6,250
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  50,000
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                           59,410
Russell Sage Foundation, New York New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                           12,092
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover, New Jersey
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center                                10,000
Shape Corporation, Grand Haven
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Alice M. Shaw Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      45,385
Sherwin-Williams Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Macromolecular Research Center                                       5,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Student Loan Fund in the
Medical School                                                              13,732
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation New York~ New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            12,500
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           7,799
Margaret SokoL New York, New York
for the Herman E. and Margaret M. Sokol Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                            30,000
E. R. Squibb & Sons, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
for research m the Medical School                                          150,000
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo Japan
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute         15,000
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the College ofArchitecture and Urban Planning                           10,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint               9,411
Ethon L. Stone Jackson
cash gift for the Dr. Ethon L. Stone Fund, a Donor Pooled Income Fund contribution
for the ultimate benefit of the David G. Dickinson Professorship in the
Medical School                                                              10,000
Aaron M. Strefling, Palo Alto California
for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics          5,000
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources                             24,940
William B. and Helen M. Taylor, Ann Arbor
for the Dermatology Alumni Fund in the Medical School                       10,000
Tecumseh Products Company, Tecumseh
for the Tecumseh Products Fund in the College of Engineering                 5,400
Telios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., La Jolla, California
for research in the Medical School                                           7,500
Joseph F. Tetlak, Bratenahl, Ohio
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Texaco Services -Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Fluid Dynamics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah
for research in the Medical School                                          18,835
Time, Inc., New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  7,158
Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics             200,000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics             200,000
Frederick C. Trager Trust
for the Mhedical School                                                     10,000
Trenton Firefighters, Trenton
for Burn Research and Education in the Medical School                       11,200
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute  15,000


-36 -



September Meeting, 1990


USX Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,650
Upjohn Company Foundation, Portage
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           7,500
Hans W. Vahlteich Estate
for the Ella McCollum Vahlteich Funds in the Medical School, and the College
of Pharmacy                                                               1,200,000
George F. Valassis, Bloomfield Hills
15,000 shares of First Bancorp common stock; for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     108,750
Valeo Automotive, Inc., Livonia
for human factors research in the Transportation Research Institute           7,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Medical School, the Kelsey Museum, and
the Biophysics Research Division                                             33,500
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the W. E. Bachmann Memorial Lecture in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and for the Women-in-Science Program in the Center for the
Education of Women                                                           17,650
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                               5,000
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics       10,000
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                           61,915
Whiting Foundation, Flint
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center                                220,000
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Inc., Great Neck, New York
for the Bartlett A. Giamatti Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                         32,500
Richard C. Wolfe Estate
450 shares of various corporate common stocks, for support of the College of
Engineering, and the Medical School                                          22,798
Xyrofin, Ltd., Zug, Switzerland
for biochemical research in the School of Dentistry                          42,273
S. K. Yee Foundation New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School                              50,000
Youth Foundation of America Petoskey
for support of the Shady Trails Camp                                         16,000
Allied-Signal Corporation, Morristown New Jersey
for research in the Biophysics Research Division                              5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute
of Gerontology                                                               88,431
American Cyanamidtompany, Wayne, New Jersey
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               20,000
Anonymous Donor
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center                                100,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Cyril W. Brenske Estate
for WUOM/WVGR                                                                 5,000
Bristol-Myers, U.S. Pharmaceutical and Nutritional Group, Evansville, Indiana
for hematology/oncology research in the Medical School                       25,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Leo Burnett Scholars in the School of Business Administration,
and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                      28,429
Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowships in the Medical School               5,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               20,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            9,598
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for capital support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  300,458
Coin-O  Specialists, Inc., Adrian
tor systems engineering support in the College of Engineering                 8,000
-37 -



September Meeting, 1990


Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and in the School of Nursing                                                52,000
Conner Engineering, Inc., Mount Clemens
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              15,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA. Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          55,000
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship                                 5,000
Dayton-Hudson Department Store Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the University of Michigan-Flint Summer Music Academy, and for the
Museum of Art Special Exhibition Fund                                       14,500
Deloitte Haskins & SellsTFoundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for capital support of the School of Business Administration                40,000
Deloitte & Touche Detroit
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Dermatology Development Fund, Ann Arbor
for the Dermatology Development Program in the Medical School              100,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                          12,500
Digital Equipment Corporation, Marlborough, Massachusetts
for computer research in the College of Engineering                          5,000
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               7,250
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the College of Engineering                                  25,000
Mr. and Mrs. William George Earle, Miami, Florida
for the Ruth and George Earle Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       10,000
Beulah L. Essman Estate
for the Frederick L. Leckie Scholarship and Loan Fund in the Law School      9,043
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Clinton B. FordWilton Connecticut
for the Clinton Bo Ford Astronomy Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       20,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for fellowships and program support in the College of Engineering           39,200
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for capital support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  317,906
Harry L. Freeman, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the I. L. Sharfman Economics Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        5,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute  15,000
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for the Glaxo Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy                         34,000
Hazel Lee Hughes Estate
for the James A. and Hazel L. Hughes Grant-in-Aid Funds in the Colleges
of Engineering, and Literature, Science and the Arts                        81,811
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            100,000
II Morrow, Inc. Salem, Oregon
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Program in the College of Engineering  20,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          38,000
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation Menlo Park, California
for endowment support of diversity and minority projects in the School of
Public Health                                                               36,668
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Student Volunteer Corps Project, and for Employee Matching Gifts    56,200
Milton A. & Charlotte R. Kramer Foundation, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for student aid in the Law School                                           25,000
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Assocates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Lucius N. Littauer Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Littauer Judaica Book Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
Louisiana Land and Exploration Company Foundation, New Orleans, Louisiana
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,000


-38 -



September Meeting, 1990


Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building, the Swimming and Diving Facility, and scholarships
in the Department of Athletics                                               13,500
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  20,647
G. Edgar Meads, London, Ontario Canada
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc. Detroit
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Program in the College of Engineering,
and for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute    198,500
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,318
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           23,750
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
Clifford T. Nelson Estate
for the Clifford T. Nelson Fund in the School of Dentistry                  750,000
Carl A. and Kathryn Nordberg, Bethesda, Maryland
178 shares of Schering Plough Corporation common stock- for support of the
School of Social Work, and Tor the Swimming and Diving Facility in the
Department of Athletics                                                      13,570
Mr. and Mrs. Robert W. Olson, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the Alumni Association CA.M.P. Program                                   10,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, D.C.
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                                   15,500
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  26,538
Progressive Tool & Industries Company, Southfield
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
Quaker Oats Foundation, Chicago. Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  10,200
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts   12,500
Research Fund of the American Otological Society, Davis, California
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for the Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr. Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School  100,000
Eugene and C. Ruth Roberts Trust, Monrovia California
for creative potential development in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  17,500
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            12,646
Saginaw Machine Systems, Inc., Saginaw
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
Charles L. and Nancy L. Sargent, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
Tor fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                                    8,000
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       10,225
Sydney A. and Linnea Spink Trust, St. Augustine, Florida
for the India Site Seminar, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts      5,800
Spring Into Summer, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital                                       10,295
Aaron M. Strefling, Palo Alto California
for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics           5,000
Sumitomo Bank, Ltd., New York New York
for the Sumitomo Bank Endowment for Japanese/American Legal Studies
in the Law School                                                           500,000
TMC Group, Inc., Derry, New Hampshire
for the TMC Merit Scholarship in the Career Planning and Placement Office     5,840
Obert C. Tanner, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Obert C. Tanner Philosophy Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        20,000
A. Alfred Taubman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the College of Architecture and Urban Planning                           20,000


-39 -



September Meeting, 1990


George L. Terpenning, Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania
1 000 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock; for the George and
Virginia Terpenning Fund, a DonorPooled Income Fund contribution for the
ultimate benefit of the School of Business Administration and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            47,625
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration             5,000
Darle L. Tobel, Northville
for the Charles I. Tobel Memorial Fund in the Medical School                  5,000
Toledo Hospital Toledo Ohio
for the Caroline B. Jobst Laboratory in the Medical School                  170,000
United Airlines Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,500
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for the Ann Arbor University of Michigan Club Scholarship, for the Sports Service
Building, and other support m the Department of Athletics                    18,303
Varnumr Riddering, Schmidt, and Howlett, Grand Rapids
for capital support of the Law School                                        25,000
Whitaker Foundation,Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for research in the College ofEngineering, and the Medical School           106,268
Jerome B. Wiesner, Cambridge, Massachusetts
for support of the College of Engineering                                    25,000
Richard C. Wolfe Estate
for energy application research in the College of Engineering, and for cancer
research m the Medical School                                               273,023
M. Irene Woodman, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Nursing                                         10,000
William E. Zimmie Trust
for the Benford-Zimmie Scholarship in the College of Engineering              5,000
AT&T Foundation, New York New York
for fellowships in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  35,575
Aetna Life & Casualty Foundation, Inc., Hartford, Connecticut
for the Bill Segura de Perez Memorial Student Aid Fund                        5,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           25,000
American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Foundation, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                           10,753
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                           89,577
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                            8,844
American Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
American Federation for Aging Research New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           12,200
American Heart Association Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                           87,280
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           94,142
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           28,250
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School                                           37,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago Illinois
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                              15,950
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research m the Medical School                                            16,833
Frederick P. Bamberger Trust
890 shares of various corporate common stocks, and cash gift of $11,973;
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   43,486
Bell Communications Research, Inc., Livingston New Jersey
for computer research in the College of Engineering, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                               25,325
Everett E. Berg, Oakland, California
for the Everett E. Berg Professorship in the School of Business Administration  200,000


-40 -



September Meeting, 1990


Beztak Group Financial Services Corporation, Farmington Hills
for graduate fellowships/scholarships in the School of Dentistry             10,000
Bo Enterprises, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Boeing Company, Seattle Washington
for the Boeing Scholarship in the College of Engineering                      8,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for automotive transportation research in the Transportation Research Institute  10,000
Chung-Haw Institute of Buddhist Studies, Taipei, Taiwan
for Asian Languages and Cultures support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        17,000
Bennett J. and Alice S. Cohen Ann Arbor
for the Harry and Birdie Kay Fund for Laboratory Animal Medicine and other
support in the Medical School, and for the Alumni Association, Center for
the Education of Women, Matthaei Botanical Gardens, Museum of Art, University
Musical Society, and WUOM                                                     5,525
Coin-Op Specialists, Inc., Adrian
Tor systems engineering support in the College of Engineering                 6,000
Marlin Cole and Conme Belin Charitable Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
for the Belin Lecture Fund in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                         20,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           30,647
Florence Stevens De Lano, Kalamazoo
88 shares of General Electric Company common stock; for the Florence S.
and James E. De Lano Fund a Donor Pooled Income Fund contribution pending
designation                                                                   5,957
Digital Equipment Corporation, Marlborough, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                7,250
Dow Chemical U.SA. Midland
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  13,185
Catherine W. DuffyI Port Huron
82 shares of IBM Corporation common stock; for the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics                                                8,508
E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for cancer research in the Medical School                                    15,000
Roderick J. Finlayson, New York, New York
for the Louise and Robert Finlayson Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                                5,000
Carlton R. Fischer, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            36,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts   27,740
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the PYI Industry Program in the College of Engineering                    7,500
Foundation for Chiropractic Education and Research, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering                                   10,770
Josephine Joanne Friberg Estate
for cancer research in the Medical School                                   233,349
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for fellowships, scholarships, and other support in the College of Engineering  96,880
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  56,591
Giant Yellowknife Mines, Ltd., Timmins, Ontario, Canada
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts       5,500
Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Foundation, Southfield
1,181.112 shares of the Stein Roe Total Return Mutual Fund; for the Sheldon C.
Glass Memorial Fund in the Medical School                                    28,618
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources                              25,000
Hastings Mutual Insurance Company, Hastings
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration  5,000


-41 -



September Meeting, 1990


Sharon C. Herbert, Ann Arbor
for the Kelsey Museum                                                         7,000
Eugene J. Hochman Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       22,445
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Program in the College of Engineering  50,000
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for rear view mirror research in the Transportation Research Institute       35,000
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., Harrison, New York
for the Bertram Askwith Fund                                                 50,000
Mary Rebecca Johnson Estate
for support of the University of Michigan Hospitals                           5,341
Robert WoodJohnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for fellowships in the Medical School                                        51,279
Berenice A. Kahmann Estate
for the Berenice Kahmann Fund in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
and for the Eberhard Kahmann Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering     26,503
Richard Kerr, Battle Creek
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Milton L. Kiebler Estate
19,964 shares of various corporate common stocks; for the Milton and Gertrude
Keibler Memorial Scholarship                                               1,011,674
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for the ACSAA Slide Project in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  15,000
Richard P. Kughn, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               25,000
Leaf, Inc., Bannockburn, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry                                       7,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           17,415
Warren and Catherine Lindeman, Coldwater
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               21,000
Lubrizol Foundation, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for support of the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and the Macromolecular Research Center                                  5,000
Lyons Equipment Company, Ypsilanti
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Edward Mardiian, Southfield
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Library                             100,000
Thomas B. McDonald, Skaneateles, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School            60,000
McGraw Foundation2 Arlington Heights, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   9,500
Mr. and Mrs. William L. McKinley, Fremont
100 shares of Gerber Products Company common stock; for unrestricted support of
the Law School                                                                5,863
Marion B. McLaren Estate
for biology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for cancer research in the Medical School                                10,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  42,690
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,194
Norman F. Miller Society, Ann Arbor
for the John R. G. Gosling Lectureship in the Medical School                 15,000
Winston E. Miller Trust East Lansing
for research in tie College of Engineering                                   10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Cecil J. Nesbitt, Ann Arbor
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts   5,415
Stewart H. Parker, Studio City, California
for laboratory medicine support in the Medical School                         5,000
Jorge M. Perez, Miami Beach Florida
for urban planning fellowships in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning  10,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School, and in the School of Social Work         85,000
Philips International, B.V., the Netherlands
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration   10,000


-42 -



September Meeting, 1990


Dr. and Mrs. Duncan O. Poth San Antonio, Texas
for the Duncan and Ella Poth Endowment in the Medical School                 25,000
Poynter Fund, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                             26,850
Presser Foundation, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Scholarship in the School of Music                            5,000
Leona M. Probst Estate
for the Jesse W. and Leona G. Probst Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and Arts                                                           226,234
Louise G. Raphael, Sarasota, Florida
1,000 shares of General Electric Corporation common stock; for the
Theophile Raphael Research Fund in the Medical School                        71,750
Reader's Digest Foundation, Inc Pleasantville, New York
for the Reader's Digest Excellence in Journalism Scholarship in the
College of Literature Science, and the Arts                                  12,500
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Integrated Pre-Medical Program in the Medical School  12,474
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for the Program in Legal Advocacy in the Law School                          50,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             13,434
Rudy A. Salvette Trust, Bloomfield Hills
for endowment in the School of Business Administration                        5,000
Scripps-Howard Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources                              28,306
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for fellowships in the College of Engineering, and for faculty support in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                 44,000
Donald R. Shepherd Pasadena, California
for theReverli Band Rehearsal Hall Addition and the Athletic Bands Fund
in the School of Music, and for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     105,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for the Computer-Aided Tutorial Project in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       169,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  7,494
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             12,500
Special Metals Corporation, New Hartford, New York
for support of the School of Dentistry                                        5,000
Telios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., La Jolla, California
for pharmacolog-cardiovascular research in the Medical School                10,000
Mr. and Mrs. James R. indall, Barrington Hills, Illinois
602 shares of Quaker Oats Company common stock, and cash gift of $2,000;
for a Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  30,445
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Jackson
for Alumnae Council Scholarships in the Alumni Association                    5,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for the Upjohn Center in the Medical School, for chemical sciences facilities
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, for Upjohn Fellowships
in the College of Pharmacy, and for Employee Matching Gifts                 401,135
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for support of the Clements Library                                          10,000
Cornelius Elias Van der Velde Estate
113 shares of Amoco Corporation and 878 shares of Upjohn Company
common stocks; for the Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project                     42,187
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,763
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the Business School  15,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the Jack D. Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research Professorship in the
School of Business Administration                                           100,000


-43 -



September Meeting, 1990


The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino, California
six Mac IICI's, and two Macintosh SE/30 micro-computers, and accessories; for the School of
Business Administration
Beckman Instruments Inc., Arlington Heights Illinois
a model 7500 LS Counter, and a model L5-50 ultracentrifuge; for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, Department of Natural Sciences
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
a Tektronix graphic terminal, hard copy unit, and digitizer; for the Department of Materials
Science and Engineering
Charles R. and Elizabeth L. French, Grand Rapids
a Butterfly sailboat, hull and trailer; for Camp Michigania
Helen Virginia Harris, Ann Arbor
naval journal of George M. Ransom, covering a Pacific cruise of 1843-44 and Civil War service of
1862-1865; for the Clements Library
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
an HP 8720B network analyzer, and an HP 8562A spectrum analyzer; for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Intel Corporation Oregon Division, Hillsboro, Oregon
three math co-processor chips; for the College of Pharmacy
Klinger Scientific, Garden City, New York
optical science laboratory equipment, including: mirrors, holders, mounts, supports, carriages,
and tilts; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
John Mosaigo, Flint
a Heinrich Herman violin and case, a Pierre Silvestre violin and case, an unlabeled viola and case,
and several bows' for the University of Michigan-Flint Music Department
Waldo E. Sweet, Ann Arbor
classical journals, periodicals, and other publications; for the Department of Classical Studies
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto California
an HP 340 computer system; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Intercontinental Microwave, Santa Clara, California
test fixtures; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Arthur Andersen & Company, Detroit
thirty-six IBM terminals and keyboards, and related equipment; for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering
Apple Computer, Inc., Farmington Hills
four Mac IICI computer systems; for the School of Business Administration
Ford Motor Company Manufacturing Development Center, Detroit
a machine tool spindle system with instrumentation; for the Department of Mechanical
Engineering andApplied Mechanics
Theodore f. Hubbell Estate
a collection of printed 19th century Americana; for the Clements Library
Russell Hughes, Farmington Hills
a Canon Xapshot still camera and a computer eyes digitizing board; for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn
Arnold and Gail Morawa, Ann Arbor
an Interlake sailboat with sails and racing gear; for Camp Michigania
Alberta Muirhead, Dearborn
two tall, lighted glass display cases; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Library
Robert Petrilla, Roosevelt, New Jersey
John H. Parsell's journal of a sea trip from New York to California in 1875-76; for the Clements
Library
Simplex Time Recorder Company Livonia
timing equipment for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics
Investment Report. In response to a question from Regent Baker about
investment guidelines for bond managers, Vice President Womack responded that
each manager is obliged to follow the strategy it put forth at the time it was selected as
manager. Managers' strategies for investment of University funds cannot be changed
without prior approval.
Personnel Actions
Provost Whitaker highlighted several noteworthy personnel appointments. In
response to a question from Regent Roach, he noted that the title of head of the


-44 -



September Meeting, 1990


University Library had been changed to dean of the University Library at the request
of the new appointee and in keeping with the practice at other university libraries.
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
J. David Allan, Ph.D., Professor of Conservation Biology and Ecosystem Management
Donald G. Puro, M.D  Ph.D., Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Physiologyo without tenure August 13 1990
Donald E. RiggsEd.D., Dean of the University Library and Professor of Information and Library Studies,
January 1 1991
David J. Tucker, Ph.D., Professor of Social Work
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Jonathan J. Langberg, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine
Richard A. Miller, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Pathology, October 1, 1990
Matthew O'Donnell, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
John F. Vesecky,, Professor of Atmospheric, Ocean, ea and Space Sciences
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Harold W. Cruse, Professor Emeritus of History and Professor Emeritus of Afroamerican and African
Studies, reappointed to active status, fall term
Nathalie A. Drews Assistant Dean of Student Services, School of Social Work and Associate Professor of
Social Work, with tenure, appointment extended as Assistant Dean of Student Services, School of
Social Work for an eleven-month period, July 1, 1990
Samuel J. Eldersvela, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, reappointed to active status,
fall term
Aaron Finerman, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engneering and Computer Science and Director
Emeritus of the Computing Center, reappointed to active status for a one-year period
Rodney J. Grambeau Professor Emeritus of Sports Management and Communication, reappointed to
active status, tall term
George L. Grassmuck, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, reappointed to active status,
fall term
G. Robert Greenberg, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, reappointed to active status,
for a one-year period, July 1, 1990
Robert C. Hendrix, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period,
April 1, 1990
Ruth M. Heyn, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to
active status, for a one-year period, July 1, 1990
Samuel P. Hicks, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Thomas Hilbish, Professor Emeritus of Music and Director Emeritus of University Choirs, reappointed
to active status, University year
Robert S. Holbrook, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs and Professor of Economics,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed Associate Vice President for
Academic Affairs for a three-year period
William J. Horvath, Professor Emeritus of Health Systems, reappointed to active status, for a
one-year period, October 1, 1990
Bert N. LaDu, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, reappointed to active status, for a
one-vear period July 1, 1990
William M. Mikkelsen, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, for a
one-year period July 1 1990
Robert E. Moyers, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry and Fellow Emeritus of the Center for Human
Growth and Development, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period, July 1, 1990
-45 -



September Meeting, 1990


Eugene W. Nissen, Lecturer in Classical Studies and Assistant Dean for Student Academic Affairs,
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, appointment extended as Assistant Dean for Student
Academic Affairs, College of Literature, Sclence and the Arts, for a one-year period, July 1, 1990
Glenda Radine, Interim Director of the University of Michigan Extension Service, appointment extended
as Interim Director of the University of Michigan Extension Service, for a one-year period,
July 12 1990
Gerda M. Seligson, Professor Emeritus of Classical Studies, reappointed to active status, University
year
Scott K. Simonds, Assistant Dean for Curriculum, School of Public Health, and Professor of Health
Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, appointment extended as Assistant Dean for
Curriculum, School of Public Health for a one-year period
Gene E. Smith, Assistant Dean, College of Engineering, an&dProfessor of Mechanical Engineering,
reappointed Assistant Dean, College o Engineering, for a three-year period
William R. Steinhoff, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to active
status, fall term
Aaron M. Stem, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to
active status, for a one-year period, December 1, 1990
Alfred W. Storey, Associate Professor Emeritus of Speech, reappointed to active status fall term
Richard G. Teske, Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, and Director of the McGraw-Pill Observatory,
reappointed to Director of the McGraw-Hill Observatory, for a one-year period, June 1, 1990
Joseph E. Vaughn, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Sports Management and Communication,
reappointed to active status, University year
Robert M. Warner, Interim Director of the University Library, Dean, School of Information and
Library Studies, Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, School of Information
and Library Studies, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts appointment extended as Interim Director of the University Library fall term
Myron E. Wegman, Dean Emeritus of the School of Public Health, John G. Searfe Professor Emeritus
of Public Health, School of Public Health, and Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, reappointed to active status, spring/summer term,
May 1,1990
Edgar E. Willis, Professor Emeritus of Communication, reappointed to active status, fall term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
John E. Billi from Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs Medical School, Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, and Assistant Professor of PostgradJuate Medicine and Health Professions Education,
to Associate Dean for Clinical Affairs, Medical School, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
and Assistant Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education,
October 1, 1990
S. Roland Drayson, from Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, to
Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure, and Interim Chair of the
Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, for a one-year period
Paul W. Gikas, from Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor of Pathology, with tenure, and
Assistant Dean for Admissions, Medical School
Robert S. Holbrook, from Senior Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs and Professor of
Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Senior Associate Vice President for
Academic Affairs, Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and
Interim Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs, for a one-month period,
August 1,1990
Srinika D. ayaratne, from Professor of Social Work with tenure, to Professor of Social Work, with
tenure, and Assistant Dean for Research, School of Social Work
Earl Lewis, from Associate Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure,
to Associate Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, and Interim
Director of the Center for Afroamerican and African Studies, for a ten-month period
Michael K McLeod, from Assistant Professor of Surgery, to Assistant Professor of Surgery and Assistant
Dean for Student and Minority Affairs, Medical School
Jairam K. M. Menon, from Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, and Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Department of Biological
Chemistry, to Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, and Professor of Biological Chemistry without tenure, Department of Biological
Chemistry, and Interim Chair of the Department of Biological Chemistry
Donald J. Munro, from Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, to Professor of Philosophy, with tenure,
and Professor of Chinese, with tenure
B. Joseph White, from Associate Dean School of Business Administration, and Professor of Business
Administration, to Professor of Business Administration and Interim Dean, School of Business
Administration, for a one-year period


-46 -



September Meeting, 1990


The following committee appointments were approved:
Alumni Association Business and Financial Affairs Committee
Frank E. Beaver, for a one-year period, ending June 30, 1991, vice John B. Schroeder, term expired
Cedric V. Fricke, for a one-year period, ending June 30, 1991, to succeed himself
William B. Krumm, for a one-year period, ending June 30, 1991, to succeed himself
Committee on Militarv Officer Education Programs
Robert S. Holbrook, for a one-year period, ending June 30, 1991, vice James D. Shortt, Jr., term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Glenn E. Watkins, for the fall term, 1990, ending December 31, 1990, vice June Howard, on sabbatical
Michigan Memorial-Phoenix Project Executive Committee
David R. Engelke, for the remainder of a four-year period, ending June 30, 1993, vice Arthur Rich,
deceased
Billy J. Evans, for a four-year period, ending June 30, 1994, to succeed himself
John C. Floyd, Jr., for a four-year period, ending June 30, 1994, to succeed himself
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Anant M. Kshirsagar, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1993, vice Ruth E. Little, resigned
Universitv of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
Tadataka Yamada, for the remainder of a four-year period, ending June 30, 1993, vice John C. Marshall,
resigned
UM-Dearbom School of Education Executive Committee
Daniel G. Sayles, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1993, vice Rosalyn Saltz, term expired
UM-Flint Citizens Advisovr Committee
Lynn R. Evans, for a four-year period, ending February 28 1994 to succeed herself
Jack D. Minore for a four-year period, ending February 28, 1994
Karen Sherrin, for a four-year period, ending ebruary 28, 1994
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Kristina D. Hansen, for a six-month period, ending June 30, 1991, vice Bruce A. Richardson, on sabbatical
Joseph G. Shomsky for a four-year period, ending February 28, 1994
Deena Sloan, for a tour-year period, ending February 28,1994, to succeed herself
Kendall B. Williams, for a four-year period; ending February 28, 1994, to succeed himself
Leave of Absence Extensions. The Regents approved extensions of leave of
absence for Walter R. Alien, professor of sociology and Afroamerican and African
studies; and Jacquelynne S. Eccles, professor of psychology and women's studies.
Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced Technology. The Regents approved
the appointment of Paul B. Hays as the Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced
Technology, for a ten-year period, effective September 1, 1990.
Assistant Dean for Academic Programs. The Regents approved the
establishment of an Assistant Dean for Academic Programs in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, effective October 1, 1990.
Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Law. The Regents approved the
appointment of David L. Chambers as the Wade H. McCree, Jr., Collegiate Professor
of Law, for a five-year period, effective September 1, 1990.
John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law. The Regents approved the
appointment of Thomas A. Green as the John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of
Law, for a five-year period, effective September 1, 1990.
Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professor of Law. The Regents approved the
appointment of Richard 0. Lempert as the Francis A. Allen Collegiate Professor of


-47 -



September Meeting, 1990


Law, for a five-year period, effective September 1, 1990.
William W. Bishop, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Law. The Regents approved the
appointment of Donald H. Regan as the William W. Bishop, Jr., Collegiate Professor
of Law, for a five-year period, effective September 1, 1990.
Paul R. Lichter Professorship in Ophthalmic Genetics. The Regents approved
the establishment of the Paul Ro Lichter Professorship in Ophthalmic Genetics,
effective September 1, 1990; and the appointment of Paul A. Sieving to this
professorship, for a five-year period, effective October 1, 1990.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Dean J. Alhy III MArch., Assistant Professor of Architecture
Donna M. Salzer, A.M., Lecturer in Architecture
School of Business Administration
Sunil Gupta, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Marketing
Sumit K.-Maumdar, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy
Ojelanki K. Ngwenyama, Ph.D., Assistant Professor ofComputer and Information Systems
School of Dentistry
Cori K. Crider, DD.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Gerald E. Eisemann, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Lindsey Florez, D.D.S. Lecturer in Dentistry
Carol L. Haggerty, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1990
Mitchell D. Kaplan, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1990
William J. Lamb, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Martha L. Munoz, D.D.S Lecturer in Dentistry
Paul G. Raubolt, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1990
Christopher A. Roberts D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, August 1, 1990
Mark D. Zahn, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1990
School of Education
Helen L. Harrington, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education
College of Enaineenne
Steven L. Ceccio, Ph., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
David E. Frisque, MA., Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
School of Information and Library Studies
Maurita P. Holland, A.M.L.S., Lecturer in Information and Library Studies, July 1, 1990
Division of KinesioloAnne W. Garcia, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sports Management and Communication
David J. Moore Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sports Management and Communication, Division of
Kinesiofogy, and Assistant Professor of Marketing, School of Business Administration, July 1, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Julia P. Adams, M.S., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Dan E. Amidei2 Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics
Miriam E. Bodian Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Judaic Studies
Hans U. Boden, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Karen L. Brock, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art
Stephen M. Buckley, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Zhenhua Chen, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics


-48 -



September Meeting, 1990


Charles R. Collins, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Enylton J. de sa Rego Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Portuguese
Stephen B. Fahy, Ph5., Assistant Professor of Physics
Margarita Gemus, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Rita Gitik, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Anne K. Gramberg, Ph.D., Lecturer in Germanic Languages and Literatures
Veronica M. Gregg, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English and Comparative Literature and Afroamerican
and African Studies
Mark W. Gross, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Martin V. Hildebrand, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Miguel A. Iglesias, MA., Lecturer in Spanish Language and Literature
Misao Kozuka, MA., Lecturer in Japanese
Margaret C. Levenstein, M.Phil., Instructor in Economics
Shirong Lu Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Jerome Miller, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
Franklin Naarendorp, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
John W. Rubadeau,Ph.D., Lecturer in English Language and Literature
Mark A. Schneider Ph.D. Lecturer in Sociology
Shelly G. Schreier, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
James W. Shearer Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Edward A. Shpiz, Ph.D., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Assistant
Professor of Mathematics
Judith H. Silverman, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Jeffrey L. Thunder, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Rolland J. Trajpp, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
John A. Whittier-Ferguson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature
Jean M. Wixom, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
Medical School
Prabhakar Baliga, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Surgery, July 1, 1990
Steven J. Bernstein, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Leslie G. Biesecker, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1990
Cindy Blifeld, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 16, 1990
James E. Carpenter M.D. Instructor in Surgery, August 13, 1990
William R. Carroll, M.D., Instructor in Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1990
Marc I. Chimowitz, M.B.,Ch.B., Assistant Professor of Neurology, August 1, 1990
Han-pu Chao M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and CommunicabletDiseases, July 16, 1990
Robert E. Cilley, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July, 1 1990
Jeffrey P. Crabbe, M.B.,Ch.B., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1 1990
Jeffrey L. Curtis M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Alan C. Dalkin, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Leon S. Dure, M.D. Lecturer in Neurology, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, and
Lecturer in Neurology, Department of Neurology, July 1, 1990
Stephen A. Eldridge, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, July 1, 1990
Keith A. Fabisiak,M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1990
William P. Fay, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine~ July 1 1990
Lawrence Feldman, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Jufy 1, 1990
John K. Fink, M.D. Lecturer in Neurology, July 16, 1990
James S. Grober, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Jean M. Gruver, M.D. Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1990
Carl B. Guterman, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 7, 1990
Kwang Hwang, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, July 1, 1990
Carolyn M. Johnston, M.D., Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 16, 1990
Aviva L. Katz, M.D. Lecturer in Surgery, July 16, 1990
David R. Keim, M.5., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 11, 1990
Kevin M. Kelly, Ph.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1, 1990
Jonathan J. Langberg, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, August 1, 1990
Steven M. Leber, M.D., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1990
James F. Littles, Jr., M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1990
Flavian M. Lupmetti, M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, July 1, 1990
William M. McDonnell, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Eckart U. Meese, Ph.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, July 10, 1990
David R. Mehr, M.D., Instructor in Family Practice, July, 1, 1990
Paul S. Meltzer, Ph D. Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 1, 1990
Andrew P. Metinko, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1990
Richard A. Miller M.D., Ph.D., Lecturer in Pathology, August 1, 1990
Terry S. Olson, M'.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, July 9, 1990
Mark D. Pearlman, M.D. Assistant Professor ofObstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1990
James K. Richardson, M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 1, 1990


-49 -



September Meeting, 1990


John D. Severin, M.D., Lecturer in Family Practice, June 25, 1990
Elisa S. Silverstein, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 9, 1990
Anders A. F. Sima, Ph.D., Lecturer in Pathology, July 16, 1990
Zachary Simmons, M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, July 1, 1990
Debra A. Thompson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, July 1, 1990
Debara L. Tucci M.D., Lecturer in Otorhinolaryn.goloy, June 29 1990
Venetia G. Vassliades, M.D., Instructor in Radiology July 15, 1990
Joseph C. Yaroch M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Psychiatry, July 1, 1990
EricpW. Young, M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
School of Nursing
Alice J. Briggs, M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Judy G. McCook, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Deborah M. Price, M.S. Lecturer in Nursing
Elaine Vandoren, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
ollege of Pharmac
Caroline A. James, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacy Administration
Ruth Ann C. Opdycke, Pharm.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacy
School of Public Health
Judy S. Ogden, J.D  Lecturer in Health Services Management and Policy
Cheryl L.Rock, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nutritional Science
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
William J. Zimmerman, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology
UM-Dearbom School of Engineerin
Dongming Zhao, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Leo P. Bruederle, M.D. Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology
Larry W. Koch, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology
Dale C. Matcheck, BA., Lecturer in Economics
Rafael H. Mojica, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Foreign Languages
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Nancy J. Urquiola, from Assistant Professor of Dentistry to Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1990
College of Enineerine
Khalil Najafi, from Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science to Assistant Professor of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Nancy K Florida, from Instructor in Indonesian Language and Literature to Assistant Professor of
Indonesian Language and Literature
Medical School
Grace J. Boxer, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Postgraduate
Medicine and Health Professions Education to Assistant Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and
Health Professions Education, July 1, 1990
William L. Hasler, from Lecturer to Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1990
Craig A. Lundquist, from Lecturer to Instructor in Radiology July 1, 1990
Jon N. Meliones from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1 1990
Frank W. Moler from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 1, 1990
John M. Robertson, from Lecturer to Instructor in Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1990
Roger P. Vermilion, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, July 1 1990
William P. Waring III, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation


-50 -



September Meeting, 1990


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Kurt -Brandle, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Richard D. Duke, Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Thomas S. Hartman, Assistant Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, leave without salary,
September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Leon A. Pastalan, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31 1991
Sharon F. Sutton, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
School ofArt
Myra G. Larson, Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Jon N. Rush, Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
School of Business Administration
Michael D. Johnson, Associate Professor of Marketing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31 1991
William G.Moller, Jr., Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1990
Vern Terpstra, Professor of International Business, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1991 -May 31, 1992
Janet A. Weiss Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical
leave January 1-May 31, 1991
William J. Wrobleski, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
School of Dentistrv
Harry R. Paye, Jr., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, November 1, 1990 -Apr 30, 1991
School of Education
Murray E. Jackson, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1990-May 31 1991
Malcolm A. Lowther Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30 1991
James L. Miller, Jr., Professor of Higher Education, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 -May 31 1991
Joan S. Stark Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30 1991
Terrence N. Tice, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-lecember 31, 1990
College of Engneering
James R. Barber, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Spencer L. Bement, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical
leave January 1-May 31, 1991
Don B. Chafiin, Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, and Professor of Occupational Health, without tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, January 1 May 31, 1991
Maria A. Comninou, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Subhash C. Goel, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -Jessy W. Grizzle, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave January 1-May 31, 1991
Robert D. Hanson, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1991
Herman Merte, Jr., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -Andrew F. 4agy, Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, with tenure, and Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Jeffrey L. Stein, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
Wen-Jei Yang, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990


-51 -



September Meeting, 1990


Division ofKinesioloy
Katarina T. Borer Professor of Movement Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
Law School
Rebecca S. Eisenberg, Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Jerold H. Israel Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor of Law, leave without salary, January 1 -May 31, 1991
John H. Jackson Hessel E. Yntema Professor of Law, sabbatical leave January 1-May 31, 1991
Yale Kamisar Henry King Ransom Professor of Law, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1991
William I. Mifler, Professor of Law, with tenure, contract leave, September 1, 1990-December 31, 1991
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Richard L. Allen, Associate Professor of Communication, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -December 31, 1991
Andrew A. Anderson, Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1991
Barbara A. Anderson, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
Samuel H. Barnes, Professor of Political Science with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1991
Peter M. Bauland, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31 1991
Joseph L. Blotner, Professor of English, with tenure, scholarly activity leave September 1 -December 31, 1990, and retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 1991
Paul A. Boghossian Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31, 1990, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Gregory D. Bothun, Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, research leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31,1991
Francesco Brenti, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, personal leave,
September 1-December 31 1990
Stephen S. Easter Jr., Professor o Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
William R.TFarrand, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of
Anthropology, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1993
Yi-Tsi Feuerwerker, Arthur F. Thurnau Associate Professor and Associate Professor of Chinese
Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
William L. Fink, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of Zoology, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1992
George W. Ford, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1991
Charles F. Fraker Jr., Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure, retirement
furlough, January 1, 1991-May 31 1992
Alice Fulton, Associate Professor of Engfish, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -May 31, 1991
Deborah E. Goldberg, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31 1991
Roger H. Gordon, Professor of Economics, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Luisa L. Grigera, Professor of Spanish, with tenure, sabbatical leave September 1-December 31, 1990
Bruce M. Hi, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
William J. Holinger, Lecturer in English, leave without salary, September 1,1990 -May 31, 1991
Richard I. Hume, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
Karl L. Hutterer, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator of Archaeology, Museum of
Anthropology, personal leave, July I, 1990-June 31, 1991
Ronald F. Inglehart rofessor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
John F. Kolars, Professor of Near Eastern Studies and Geography, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1991
Conrad P. Kottak, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Robert Krasny, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1991
Robert T. Lenaghan, Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,1991
James A. Levinsohn, Assistant Professor of Economics, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
Donald J. Lewis, Chair of the Department of Mathematics and Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1991
Sabine G. MacCormack, Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History, leave without salary,
September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
D. W. Masser, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
James S. Milne, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1991
Michael D. Morris, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991


-52 -



September Meeting, 1990


Ronald A. Nussbaum, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of Zoology, sabbatical
leave, January 1-June 30, 1991
Ilene T. Olken, Professor of Italian, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1991
John M. O'Shea, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Curator, Museum of
Anthropology, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Donald R. Peacor, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
William H. Pearson, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -Ma 31, 1991
Vincent L. Pecararo, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1991
Roy Pierce, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1993
Douglas 0. Richstone, Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
Gideon A. Rosen, Instructor in Philosophy, duty off campus September 1-December 31, 1990
Marc H. Ross, Professor of Physics, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 1991
Earl J. Schulze, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, extended sick
leave, September 22-December 31,1990
Larry Selinker, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
J. David Singer, Professor of Poltical Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
John D. Speth, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of Anthropology, research
leave January 1-June 30 1991
Frank P. Stafford, Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Peter 0. SteinerI Dean Emeritus, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of
Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Law, Law School,
retirement furlough, September 1, 1990-August 31, 1991
Robert M. Stern, Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31 1990
Richard W. Tillinghast, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1990-May31,1991
Kathryn W. Tosney, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
Rob van der Voo, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31,1991
Athena Vrettos Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature and Women's Studies, scholarly
activity leave, September 1, 1990-May 31 1991
Warren H. Wagner, r., Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Curator of Pteridophytes, University
Herbarium, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990-May 31 1991
Kendall L. Walton, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
Earl E. Werner Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Michelle J. White Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1~91
James A. Winn. Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
Crispin J. Wright, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1990 -May 3 1991
Stephen J. Yablo, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1991
Bernard R. Yack, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, personal leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31,1991
Medical School
Mathew Alpern, Professor of Physiological Optics, with tenure, Medical School and Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough,
J uy 1,1 990-June 30, 1991
Christin Carter-Su, Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1 1990-August 31, 1991
Richard L. Malvin, Professor of Physiology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1991 -December 31, 1992
Hylan C. Moises, Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -February 28, 1991
School of Nursing
Bonnie L. Metzger, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Reg A. Williams, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991


-53 -



September Meeting, 1990


School of Public Health
Ro bert N. Grosse Professor of Population Planning and International Health, with tenure Professor
of Health Planning with tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of Urban Technological
and Environmenta Planning, without tenure, College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
retirement furlough, January 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
Ruth E. Little, Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31, 1990
James E. Martin, Associate Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Catherine G. McLaughlin, Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Fred C. Munson, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1990-May 31 1992
Rudy J. Richardson, Professor of Toxicology, School of Public Health and Associate Professor of
Neurotoxicology Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-Miay 31, 1991
Michael A. Schork, Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Robert A. Wolfe Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1i991
Leon Wyszewianski, Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
School of Social Work
Sydney E. Bernard, Professor of Social Work with tenure retirement furlough, January 1-May 31, 1991
David P. Himle, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Beth G. Reed, Associate Professor of Social Work and Women's Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January l~December 31 1991
Rosemary A. Sarri, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1991 -May 31, 1993
UM-Dearbomn College of Arts. Sciences. and Letters
Peter H. Amann, Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1991-April 30, 1992
Kathryn M. Anderson-Levitt, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1990-April 30, 1991
Lars Bjorn Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 1991
Brooks B. Hull Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Bernard W. Klein, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1991 -April 30,1992
Jacqueline E. Lawson, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, personal leave,
September 1, 1990-April 30, 1991
Dorothy A. Lee, Professor of Comparative Literature and English, with tenure, retirement furlough,
September 1, 1990-April 3, 1993
William S. Milberg, Assistant Professor of Economics, personal leave, January 1-April 30, 1991
Shelley K. Perlove, Associate Professor of Art History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1991
Jeffrey J. Prentis, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1991
Claude J. Summers Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and William E. Stirton
Professor of Humanities, sabbatical leave, September 1 1990-April 30, 1991
Jeffrey J. Stern, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
UM-Dearbom School of Education
Grace Kachaturoff Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 -April 30,1^91 i.
Richard W. Moyer, Professor of Science Education, with tenure, personal leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
William J. Mitchell, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1991                                                    W
TimothyD. Thomasma, Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, with tenure School of
Engmieerming, and Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, Division of
Interdisciplinary Studies, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
UM-Dearborn School of Management
D. Ross Cowan, Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -April 30, 1991




September Meeting, 1990


UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Paul A. Ad  s, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1-May 31, 1991
Steven C. Althoen, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Harry Frank, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Resource and Community
Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1-May 31 1991
Robert M. Kren, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
William J. Lockwood Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31 1991
Wilfred G. Marston, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 3, 1991
Renate McLaughlin, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Leslie P. Moch Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Gary L. Pace, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Lois M. Rosen, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,1991
John B. Schroeder, Associate Professor oflPolitical Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May31 1991
Harold L. Stahfy, Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 -May 31 1991
Frederic J. Svoboda, Associate Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Enineenne
Jwo Pan, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics with tenure, sabbatical
leave, changed to January 1-May 31, 1991 (previously reported as September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Academic A fairs
Charles M. Vest, Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs and Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, July 31, 1990
School of Dentistiv
Alayne S. Evans, Lecturer in Dentistry, August 31, 1990
Michael J. Guest, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1990
argaret A. Minneman, Lecturer in Dentistry, JulY 31,1990
Linda M. Park, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 3,1990
Peter S. Vig, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, September 30, 1990
College of Engineering
Jay Elkerton, Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, August 31, 1990
Lorraine G. Olson, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, July 31, 1990
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Maria I. Alvarez Puente, Lecturer in Spanish, May 31 1990
Richard J. Arculus, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, August 31, 1990
Lawrence E. Blume, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, May 31, 1990
Jean R. Carduner, Professor of French, with tenure, August 18, 1990
Cheryl M. Cassidy, Lecturer in English, August 31, 1990
Gregory Clark, Assistant Professor of Economics, May 31, 1990
Thomas E. Crow, Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, June 30, 1990
Kevin P. Keating, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 31, 1990
Laurence M. Lenaghan, Lecturer in French, May 31, 1990
John S. Maginnis, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, May 31, 1990
Robert L. Pego, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 31, 1990
Medical School
Linda L. Brinkley, Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, June 30, 1990
Allan R. Britt, Instructor in Radiology, July 13,1990
Robert P. Erickson, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, and Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, without tenure, July 31, 1990
-55 -



September Meeting, 1990


James T. Friedland, Lecturer in Radiology, August 31, 1990
Paul Gianaris Lecturer in Surger a    in   Internal Medicine, June 30, 1990
Rebecca L. H'ulett, Lecturer in Radiology, August 31, 1990
Kathy L. Kahn, Lecturer in Radiology, June 30 1990
Kevin M. Kavanaugh, Lecturer in Internal Medicine, June 30, 1990
Franklin J. Marcus, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, August 3, 1990
David E. Mellenberg, Jr., Instructor in Radiation Oncology, August 10, 1990
Rebecca A. Preston Lecturer in Ophthalmology, July 6, 990
Albert P. Rocchini, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, September 29, 1990
Benjamin N. Shai, Instructor in Psychiatry, August 15, 1990
Peter N. Verlee, Lecturer in Internal Medcine, June 30, 1990
School of Nursing
Beverly J. Linde, Lecturer in Nursing, June 30, 1990
School of Public Health
George B. Simmons, Professor of Population Planning and International Health, with tenure, and
Professor of Population and Health Planning, without tenure, July 15, 1990
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
David M. Leibowitz, Lecturer in Political Science, April 30, 1990
Mitchell Stengel, Lecturer in Social Sciences, August 8, 1990
UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
George Mo Kurajian, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, August 31, 1990
UM-Dearbom School of Management
Amjad Umar, Associate Professor of Business Administration, School of Management, and
Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, Division of Interdisciplinary Studies,
April 30, 1990
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Patrick L. Mason, Assistant Professor of Economics, August 31, 1990
John D. Ogden, Associate Professor of French, July 31, 1990
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following retirement memoir:
George M. Kurajian, professor of mechanical engineering at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1990, after many
years of faithful and dedicated service.
Professor Kurajian received his B.M.E. degree from the University of Detroit in
1948, his M.S.E. degree (engineering mechanics) from the University of Michigan in
1953, and his M.E. degree (professional degree of mechanical engineering) from the
University of Detroit in 1963. He served as a faculty member in the Department of
Engineering Mechanics at the University of Detroit before joining the University of
Michigan-Dearborn as assistant professor of mechanical engineering in 1964. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1965 and professor in 1972.
Professor Kurajian served as chair of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering from 1975-88. During his 42 years of involvement in engineering
education, he has consulted broadly with business and industry and lectured nationally
and internationally. He is a member of a number of state and national professional
associations and is the author of numerous publications. A dedicated teacher,
Professor Kurajian is the recipient of several awards for outstanding teaching.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming George M. Kurajian
Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering.


-56 -



September Meeting, 1990


Memorials
Regent Brown moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved adoption of the following memorials:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
August 18, 1990, of Jean Ren6 Carduner, professor of French in the Department of
Romance Languages and Literatures.
Professor Carduner was a leading national figure for many years in the teaching
of French language as a vehicle for understanding French culture. His influence on
the way French is taught in this country left its mark in the five textbooks he authored,
his teaching at the University of Michigan and other universities, and his leadership of
national scholarly organizations. In addition to his textbooks, Professor Carduner
published a book on the novelist Andre Malraux, a scholarly edition of a Musset play,
and wrote many articles on twentieth-century French literature, politics, and
civilization. His wife, Sylvie, who teaches French at the University of Michigan
Residential College, also collaborated with him on several textbooks.
Professor Carduner was born in Carhaix, France, on November 18, 1926. He
earned three degrees from the Sorbonne and a doctorate from the University of
Minnesota in 1959. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1954. A past
president of the American Association of Teachers of French, Jean also served as
director of Middlebury College's summer program in French from 1972-86 and as a
consultant to the United States Office of Education and to the Michigan Department
of Education.
Jean founded the University of Michigan's junior year abroad program in
Aix-en-Provence, France, which recently celebrated its 25th anniversary. He served as
associate dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts in 1974-77 and chair
of the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures in 1984-87.
In the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, Jean was highly
valued as a teacher and colleague and warmly regarded as a friend. Generous and
supportive of students and faculty alike, he was dedicated to the life of the
department. His enthusiasm for teaching and love of his subject, French literature and
culture, filtered through everything he did. His buoyancy of spirit was one of the
things that steered the morale and temper of the department; he will be sorely missed
by all of us. As we mourn the loss of this great teacher and colleague, our condolences
go to his wife Sylvie, and to his children Isabelle, Marianne, and Olivier.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death on August 23, 1990, of Bennett J. Cohen, professor of laboratory animal
medicine, associate professor of physiology, and research scientist in the Institute of
Gerontology.
Born in Brooklyn, New York, on August 2, 1925, Professor Cohen received his
D.V.M. degree from Cornell University in 1949 and his Ph.D. degree in physiology
from Northwestern University in 1953. He came to the University of Michigan in
1962, after serving on the faculties of the University of California at Berkeley and the
University of California at Los Angeles. At the University of Michigan, Professor
Cohen founded the Unit for Laboratory Animal Medicine, which carries out research,
service, and education involving the use of animals in research. As the unit's director
for 23 years, Professor Cohen's vision and leadership kept the University at the
forefront of laboratory animal care.
A pioneer and visionary in the field of laboratory animal science for the past 40
years, Professor Cohen was a founding member of many local, national, and


-57 -



September Meeting, 1990


international laboratory animal science organizations. These include the American
Association for Laboratory Animal Science, the American College of Laboratory
Animal Medicine, the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal
Care, the Institute for Laboratory Animal Resources in the National Academy of
Sciences, and the Michigan Society for Medical Research.
In 1963, Professor Cohen chaired the National Academy of Sciences committee
that wrote the first edition of Guide for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals. More
than 300,000 copies of this volume have since been distributed, and it has been
accepted as a primary reference on laboratory animal care and use. The National
Institutes of Health now require that awardee institutions comply with the provisions
of the guide. In the last decade, Professor Cohen also established a national
reputation in the field of gerontology. As a research scientist in the University of
Michigan's Institute of Gerontology, he established the Core Facility for Aged
Rodents, which provides aged rodents for study by scientists campus-wide.
Professor Cohen was the recipient of all of the major national and international
awards in laboratory animal science. These include the Griffin Award, the highest
award of American Association for Laboratory Animal Science; the Charles River
Prize, the highest award of the American Veterinary Medical Association; and the
Muhlbock Award, the highest award of the International Council for Laboratory
Animal Science. An active clinician and scientist, he published more than 70 articles
in peer-reviewed scientific journals, contributed to numerous books and monographs,
and served on many NIH study sections, editorial boards, and advisory boards.
A friend and inspiration to his many friends and colleagues throughout the
world, Ben's legacy will no doubt continue through the many postdoctoral fellows he
trained in laboratory animal medicine. He loved the University of Michigan and
served it in many capacities. As we mourn his death, our condolences go to his wife
Alice, and his daughters Janet and Julie.
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
August 24, 1990, of Glen C. McDowell, D.D.S., assistant professor in the School of
Dentistry's Department of Prosthodontics.
Born on October 18, 1933, in Alma, Michigan, Dr. McDowell attended
Michigan State Normal College from 1952-54, earned his D.D.S. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1958, and his M.A. degree from the University of Michigan
in prosthodontics in 1977.
Dr. McDowell had had a private general practice in Ann Arbor since 1958 and
was a consultant to Chelsea Community Hospital. He began his career at the
University of Michigan in 1970 as a clinical instructor in the Department of Complete
Denture. He was named assistant professor in 1977.
His dental research focused on three-dimensional stress analysis as it relates to
removable partial denture design, physical and chemical properties of athletic mouth
guard materials, and tarnish and corrosion properties of dental amalgam alloys. He
also studied wear and abrasion of dental restorative materials and conducted
three-dimensional photoelastic stress analyses of the mandibular staple bone plate.
Dr. McDowell published numerous articles, including a procedure guide in
denture prosthodontics, and was involved in developing educational materials for
complete denture prosthodontics. He was an active member of the American and
Michigan prosthodontics societies and the Federation of Prosthodontics organizations.
A charter member of the Academy of Sports Dentistry, he belonged to the Richard H.
Kingery Prosthetic Group, Psi Omega, and the national and Michigan chapters of the
American Dental Association. He was also an honorary member of Delta Sigma
Delta, a dental fraternity.


-58 -



September Meeting, 1990


Brien R. Lang, D.D.S., chair of the School of Dentistry's Department of
Prosthodontics, said of Dr. McDowell, "He was extremely dedicated to the University
and particularly to the students whom he served. He was held in high esteem by his
faculty colleagues and will be greatly missed."
As we mourn the loss of this great scholar and teacher, our condolences go to
his wife, Nancy Jank McDowell, and his three sons Glen, David, and Michael.
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
August 25, 1990, of Arthur Rich, professor of physics.
Recognized and respected internationally for his work on positrons, the
antimatter equivalent of the electron, Professor Rich carried forward a departmental
tradition of accomplishment in precision measurements of atomic physics. His studies
of positronium lifetimes and the magnetic moment of the electron and positron were
crucial tests of the theory of quantum electrodynamics; he was well known for the
design of the positron microscope and for his work with polarized positron beams. His
broad-based research program included astrophysical observations, improvements in
medical technology, and initial studies aimed at the creation of anti-hydrogen. His
work was continually innovative and of fundamental import.
Professor Rich was born in New York, New York, in 1937. He received his B.S.
degree in physics from Brooklyn College in 1959, his M.A. degree from Columbia
University in 1961, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1965. He
was appointed to the faculty of the Department of Physics in 1966.
At the University of Michigan, Art built a strong team of physicists. He was
esteemed particularly for training and encouraging the many undergraduate students
who participated —in positions of real importance —in his various research projects. Art
served with distinction on numerous committees, including the Senate Assembly and
the advisory board of the Phoenix Memorial Project; he was a senior fellow of the
Michigan Society of Fellows from 1979-82. Nationally, he was a leader of the
community of atomic physicists. He was a member of the National Research Council's
committee on fundamental constants and the international organizing committee of
the 11th International Conference of Atomic Physics; he was chair of the 12th
International Conference of Atomic Physics. Art was a fellow of the American
Physical Society and a member of the New York Academy of Sciences.
Art was an innovative thinker with a comprehensive vision of physics, and with
the perseverance and care for exactitude necessary for success in his chosen specialty.
He had profound insight and was adept at designing experiments that cut to the heart
of the theoretical issues in atomic physics. He was adept as well at communicating his
vision to others and at coordinating their efforts toward a common goal.
Art demanded much of his students, and they were repaid with an exceptional
education in the actual workings of physics research. He demanded no less of himself,
and his legacy is one of great achievement. As we mourn the loss of this great scholar
and teacher, our condolences go to his wife Paula, his daughters Donna and Marjorie,
and his son, Daniel.
It is with deep regret that the Departments of Population Planning and
International Health and Public Health Policy and Administration report the death of
Professor George B. Simmons on July 15, 1990.
Professor Simmons was born in New York on February 21, 1940. He received
his B.A. degree from Harvard University in 1961, and his Ph.D. degree in economics
from the University of California at Berkeley in 1969, after completing fieldwork on
the Indian Family Planning Program as a Fulbright scholar. He joined the University
of Michigan faculty as assistant professor of economics and population planning in


-59 -



September Meeting, 1990


1969, was promoted to associate professor in 1974, and to professor in 1982.
From 1978-81, Professor Simmons served as director of the University of
Michigan's Program in Population Planning. In July 1988, he was appointed chair of
the Department of Population and Planning and International Health. He had been a
member of the Population-Environment Dynamics Project from its inception in 1989,
and was also director of the Training Program in Population and Development.
Professor Simmons' recent research focused on factors that determine the
effectiveness and efficiency of family planning programs in developing countries.
Professor Simmons had chaired the National Academy of Sciences' working
group on family planning effectiveness since 1983. He was a consultant to the
International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research in Bangladesh, the National
Institutes of Health, the World Bank, and the Population Council. He was an editorial
consultant for International Family Planning Perspectives, Population and Development
Review, Studies in Family Planning, and Economic Development and Cultural Change.
Professor Simmons left an intellectual mark in the population field that will live
for many years. Even more important, George was a man who displayed love for his
students, his colleagues, and everyone he came in contact with. This love and respect
is his eternal legacy.
Professor Simmons is survived by his wife Ruth, and his son, Max Bradford.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
unanimously approved certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists.
Annual Report of Investments
Vice President Womack gave a brief summary of the information contained in
the Report of Investments as of June 30, 1990. He noted that this had not been a good
year for investors who, like the University, adhere to value principles. But he also
emphasized that although value principles are subject to cyclical movements, they
have prevailed when consistently applied over long periods of time. He also pointed
out the decline in the stock market that had occurred during the past month as a result
of the situation in the Persian Gulf. He noted that the tactical asset allocation
program had not performed as expected, and in fact, had been miserable. Vice
President Womack concluded that there is no substitute for meaningful asset
diversification. While continuing to pursue the diversification strategy, he stated that
he and his staff would conduct an in depth reexamination of the tactical asset
allocation program.
Regarding real estate funds, Regent Smith noted that $.8 million of the
University's commitment to PCA/Tishman-Speyer was to be used for renovating three
buildings. Regent Smith observed that she believes renovations should only be done
according to the tenants' specifications, and not prior to a building's being leased. Mr.
Herbert replied that the major purpose of these renovations was to enhance the value
of the buildings through improvements in the mechanical systems, common areas, and
exteriors, not lease hold improvements. He also pointed out that the improvements
were being made by the investment manager or property manager they have selected,
not by the University.
Regent Roach asked why, in proxy voting situations, the University's policy is to
vote against limitations on the age of nominees to the board of directors or the


-60 -



September Meeting, 1990


imposition of a mandatory retirement age for directors. Vice President Womack and
Mr. Herbert explained that the feeling is that policies precluding service on boards
because of age are discriminatory, and should not be the basis for excluding a
candidate.
Establishment of the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center at
the School of Business Administration, as described in the Regents communication.
Naming of Three Buildings in the Athletic Area
Regent Baker moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved naming the following buildings in the athletic area: The Varsity Gymnasium
as the "Clifford P. Keen Arena"; the building housing the Women's Athletic Offices
and the Ticket Office as the "Marie Dorothy Hartwig Women's Athletic Offices"; and
the Sports Service Building as "Glenn E. (Bo) Schembechler Hall".
The meeting then recessed, and the participants proceeded to the Michigan
Union to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Linda Kurtz, Tracy Ore, Valerie Park, and David Rosenberg, students,
about Regent Baker's views on homosexuality and problems of homosexuals on
campus; Jennifer Van Valey, Angela Burks, Corey Dolgon, Dawn Paulinski, and Chris
Kopper, students, about deputization of campus security officers; Robert Reilly,
student, about Regent Baker's right to free speech; Andy Petrella and Joe Sciarrotta,
students, in support of Regent Baker's views on homosexuality; and Dona Demon,
citizen, about her interactions with the University.
Friday, September 21, 1990
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Varner.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters was absent.
Hill Auditorium Feasibility Study
President Duderstadt recognized Vice President Womack, who called on Dean
Paul Boylan, chair of the committee formed to study the needs for renovation of Hill
Auditorium, who described how the committee had functioned. The architectural firm
of Albert Kahn and Associates, with Quinn Evans Associates, had been appointed to
work with the committee to design a master plan. Dean Boylan then introduced Mr.
Fred Mayer, university planner, who gave a detailed presentation of the proposed
master plan.


-61 -



September Meeting, 1990


Mr. Mayer described the master plan's major recommendations as
encompassing three general areas: general interior and exterior repairs, restoration,
and renovation (including new seats, lighting, sound system); technological
improvements (air conditioning, bathroom improvements, expanded lobby, elevator,
acoustical improvements); and an above ground addition to improve backstage
facilities for performers and add a green room, loading dock, and other improvements.
It was emphasized that the renovations would be funded by private gifts and
would be completed in stages as funding became available. In response to questions
from the Regents, Dean Boylan said that the School of Music would work with Vice
President Cosovich to develop a fundraising plan. President Duderstadt stated that
given the historical importance and reputation of Hill Auditorium, implementation of
the master plan would be one of the highest priorities of the upcoming capital
campaign. The School of Music, the University Musical Society, and the University
administration would work cooperatively to plan and carry out fundraising goals.
Regent Power requested that the Regents receive information about the policies
currently being followed for scheduling of University concert facilities. There being no
further discussion, Regent Power moved approval in principle of the master plan
described by the study, with construction projects being implemented as the funds are
available. Regent Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
UM-Flint Acquisition of Water Street Pavilion and Parking Units
This is a proposal to accept the offer from the City of Flint Downtown
Development Authority to convey the Water Street Pavilion and Ice Rink, including
land, and two floors of parking spaces in the attached condominium parking deck to
the University of Michigan-Flint.
Chancellor Jones reported that this proposal is very important to the Flint
campus; it has broad-based support on campus, in the Flint community, in the state
legislature, and from the Mott Foundation, and addresses very serious space needs. In
addition, occupation of the Water Street Pavilion would make a very clear statement
that the University of Michigan-Flint is very committed to serving the Flint area.
Regent Nielsen said that he thought this would be an excellent addition to the
Flint campus, and would show continued support for the Flint revitalization program.
He moved adoption of the proposal; Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Baker commented that if the state were also to convey the State Office
Building, the plan would be comprehensive. In his opinion, the current proposal is
injurious to the master plan, divides the campus, and doesn't approach the planning
problem in a comprehensive way.
Chancellor Jones responded that acquisition of the State Office Building would
not be feasible at the present time, both because it is completely occupied, and
because the UM-Flint does not have sufficient staff or funds available for renovation,
nor does it need the additional space at the present time. He noted, however, that the
master plan would be updated continually to include the type of development
suggested by Regent Baker over the long term.
At the request of Regent Baker, Mr. Richard Rigterink, of Johnson, Johnson,


-62 -



September Meeting, 1990


and Roy, gave a presentation illustrating how the master plan has been revised to
incorporate acquisition of the properties in question. He noted that physically
extending the campus to the west provides an opportunity to relate the campus more
strongly to the community, and to emphasize the entry treatment that was proposed as
part of the original master plan on the west side of the campus.
In response to a question from Regent Nielsen about the site for the new
library, Mr. Rigterink stated that with the acquisition of the Water Street Pavilion, it
would be advantageous to change the site to the other of the two sites that had been
identified originally as possible sites for the library. This would require modifications
to the architectural drawings.
Regent Baker reiterated that the master plan should include the piece of land to
the south, as well as the State Office Building, and that the addition of the Water
Street Pavilion changes the whole concept of the campus as it was originally planned.
Regent Nielsen pointed out that although Regent Baker's reasoning is appropriate,
the University doesn't at present have the opportunity or the need to acquire the State
Office Building, so that it is premature to consider that option at the present time.
Regent Power suggested that Johnson, Johnson, nsn and Roy be asked to prepare a
master plan with a longer time horizon which would envisage acquiring the pieces of
property referred to by Regent Baker, and which would consider changing the site of
the new library to take advantage of the acquisition of the Water Street Pavilion.
Regent Nielsen reiterated his concerns about placement of the library.
In response to a question from Regent Power about the capital costs of
acquiring the new building, Chancellor Jones reported that $1 million has been
allocated for renovation in one bill in the state legislature, and an additional $1.9
million in capital outlay is also anticipated. Total costs for renovation will be $2.5 to
$3 million.
Regent Smith suggested delaying a decision until the following month, so the
Regents would have an opportunity to see the property. Chancellor Jones pointed out
that the issue had been under consideration for a number of months, and that the
University was being offered a gift of office space and parking space which it is
currently leasing at a cost of several hundred thousand dollars a year.
Regents Roach and Brown expressed support for the proposed plan. Regent
Baker repeated his objections, saying he could not understand why the University did
not look at an all-encompassing plan, instead of focusing on the narrow aspect of the
gift. He said he would vote against the plan because he felt it was a serious error in
planning and judgment.
Regent Power asked Chancellor Jones whether accepting the Water Street
Pavilion would make more or less likely the prospect of eventually developing the
campus to include the entire quadrant. Chancellor Jones responded that it would add
significantly to the development of the campus, and that he has entered into the
project with a clear understanding of the impact it would have on the long-term
development of the downtown campus.
The vote was then taken on the motion to amend the Flint Master Plan to allow
for the acquisition of the Water Street property and to approve the receipt of the


-63 -



September Meeting, 1990


conveyance to the University of the Water Street Pavilion and Ice Rink, including
land, and units 2 and 3 in the Water Street condominium parking deck, as described in
the Regents communication, as well as the renovation and operational costs and the
architect selected for the project. The motion carried, with Regents Brown, Nielsen,
Power, Roach, and Varner voting in favor, Regent Baker opposed, and Regent Smith
abstaining.
Faculty Presentation to the Regents
President Duderstadt introduced Peggie Hollingsworth, chair of the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA), who noted that the purpose of
the faculty presentation would be to demonstrate to the Regents samples of the
breadth, richness, and diversity of activities within the University and to demonstrate
the ways in which teaching, research, and service/outreach are intertwined. She
introduced Professors Ejner J. Jensen and Robert Weisbuch of the English
department.
English: The Diverse Discipline. Professors Jensen and Weisbuch described
the kinds of classes that are taught in the English department. They also informed the
Regents of the various kinds of service and outreach programs that English faculty are
involved in, which include projects with public school systems in Detroit, Saginaw,
Royal Oak, Ann Arbor, and other cities, and the editing and publishing of the
Michigan Quarterly Review. They described several ongoing programs offered by the
English department that draw diverse populations from the wider community to the
University. They concluded by offering descriptions of other English department
efforts that enhance the diversity of its staff and programs.
Program in Scholarly Research for Urban/Minority High School Students. Billy
Joe Evans, professor of chemistry and program director of the Program in Scholarly
Research for Urban/Minority High School Students, introduced Ms. Betty J. Hines,
principal of Southwestern High School, who is the program coordinator for the Detroit
Public Schools. Ms. Hines described the history of the program, noting that since its
start in 1981, 91 high school students have participated.
Professor Evans described the purpose of the program as being to prepare high
school students with high promise for careers as scholars, thereby increasing the
number of minority students who obtain graduate degrees. This is done through a
mentoring process, by which University faculty members guide high school students
through research projects in their areas of interest. In addition, guidance is provided
for students in their home and school settings. Professor Evans gave a slide
presentation illustrating some of the program's successes. He concluded his
presentation by introducing the faculty mentors, current student participants in the
program, and several past participants who are now University students.
President Duderstadt commented that this program is a model for the rest of
the nation, and serves an area of urgent and critical need. He thanked Professor
Evans and his colleagues and then called for a short recess.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Following the recess, Regent Roach made the following motion:


-64 -



September Meeting, 1990


Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as amended
by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed session on
September 21, 1990, immediately following the end of the regular business
meeting, for the purpose of consulting with the Board's attorney regarding trial or
settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation
Regent Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
1438 Washington Heights, Ann Arbor
Regent Nielsen moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved that the University acquire the property at 1438 Washington Heights, Ann
Arbor, at a price of $220,000.
358 West Ashby Road, Lee Township, Midland County, Michigan
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
unanimously approved acceptance of the property at 358 West Ashby Road, Lee
Township, Midland County, Michigan, and that it be put on the market immediately
for sale. The University will obtain an appraisal to establish a minimum sale price,
and any costs required to market the property, including a sales commission if
necessary, will be deducted from the sale proceeds. It is the intention of the donors
that the sale proceeds benefit the Athletic Department's Sports Service Building.
300 North Ingalls Building Renovation for Institute of Gerontology
Regent Smith moved, Regent Brown seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved renovations of the 300 North Ingalls Building for the Institute of
Gerontology, as described in the Regents communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals Replacement of Magnetic Resonance Imaging Unit
Regent Baker moved, and Regent Power seconded, proceeding with a project to
replace one of the two magnetic resonance (MRI) units at University Hospitals with a
new MRI unit, as described in the Regents communication, including applying for the
Certificate of Need (CON), issuing the documents for bids, and awarding a
construction contract if the CON is granted and the bids are within the project budget.
Following some discussion, the vote was taken and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Reassignment of University's Ownership in Intellectual Property (Timothy F. Havel)
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved reassignment of the University's ownership interest in the
intellectual property DG-II Computer Systems to its inventor, Timothy F. Havel,
Ph.D. The motion was approved unanimously.
Because the inventor is a University employee, these arrangements fall under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with the statute:


-65 -



September Meeting, 1990


1.  Parties to the Assignment Agreement will be the University of
Michigan and Timothy F. Havel.
2.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby incorporated
by reference in this action request.
Improvements in Statistical Support Services at the University of Michigan
Vice President Kelly informed the Regents about improvements that have been
made in statistical support services at the University of Michigan. These
improvements include allocating additional staff and capital resources to the former
Statistical Consulting Unit and terminating the University's General Fund support of
further development of the MIDAS statistical package, as outlined in the Regents
communication.
Revisions to Regents' Bylaws Sections 5.01 (3) and 5.23 (Nontenure-track clinical
appointment sequence in the Law School)
Regent Power moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved revisions to Regents' Bylaws Sections 5.01 (3) and 5.23, regarding the
nontenure-track clinical appointment sequence in the Law School. The revised bylaws
are as follows (revisions underscored):
Section 5.01. Definitions
3.   The term governing faculty, when used in connection with a school or
college, shall include those members of the school or college who are professors,
associate professors, assistant professors, and in the Law School clinical
professorial staff. The governing faculty shall include instructors and lecturers
who hold appointments of one-half time or more; provided, however, that such
instructors and lecturers may vote at faculty meetings only if they have held
appointments for one or more years and are authorized to vote by a majority
vote of the professorial staff of the appropriate school or college.
(Section 5.01, paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5, and 6, remain the same.)
Section 5.23. Clinical Instructional Staff
(3  Faculty may be appointed to the Law School at appointment fractions of
50 Mer cent or higher as clinical professors, clinical associate professors, or
clinical assistant professors.
Appointment and promotion criteria shall be consistent with those for
regular instructional ranks to the extent applicable.
Recommendations for appointment. reappointment, and promotion shall
be made by the dean and approved by the president.
Law School appointments to the clinical instructional staff at fractions of
50 per cent or higher may be for periods of up to 7 years. All clinical
appointments are without tenure.


-66 -



September Meeting, 1990


(Section 5.23, paragraphs 1 and 2, remain the same.)
Revisions of Regents' Bylaws Sections 4.03, 6.02, 6.05, 11.051, and 11.22 (Division of
Kinesiology)
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved revisions to Regents' Bylaws Sections 4.03 (Senate Assembly
Composition), 6.02 (Degree Program Definitions), 6.05 (Divisions of the University),
11.051, and 11.22 (Division of Physical Education), regarding the change in name of
the Division of Physical Education to the Division of Kinesiology. In Sections 4.03,
6.02, 6.05, and 11.051, the approved revision is replacement of the words Physical
Education with the word Kinesiology. The revised version of Section 11.22 is as
follows:
Section 11.22. Division of Kinesiology
The Division of Kinesiology shall be maintained for the purpose of
conducting research and offering curricula in movement science and sports
management and communications. It shall be in the charge of a director
appointed by the Board on recommendation by the president and responsible to
the vice president for academic affairs and provost.
(The second paragraph of Section 11.22 remains the same.)
Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, cothe Regents
unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Membership in the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture/American
Institute of Architects Research Council
Regent Varner moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, membership in the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture/
American Institute of Architects Research Council.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on October 18-19, 1990. Regents' transportation, accommodation,
telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the months of July and August 1990 were
$133.09 and $595.00, respectively.
Ric ard L. ennedy, Secrety


-67 -



OCTOBER MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 18, 1990
The Regents met at 1:30 P.M. in the Happenings Room of the University Center
Building on the campus of the University of Michigan-Flint. Following a tour of the
Water Street Pavilion, they reconvened in the Michigan Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and
Varner. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters was absent.
CESF Report, UM-Flint
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Professor Robin
Widgery, chair of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty at the
UM-Flint, to present the CESF Report. Professor Widgery displayed charts indicating
that the salaries for full professors, associate professors, and assistant professors at
UM-Flint are below the average for those salaries at twelve peer institutions, and that
this disparity has been growing since 1984. He also noted that the University of
Michigan benefits package, especially for dental care, does not compare favorably with
the benefits offered at other institutions in the area.
Professor Widgery was asked to obtain further information regarding what
institutions are considered UM-Flint's peers and how these institutions were chosen,
and the actual amounts of salaries and benefits expenditures of the area institutions
used in CESF's comparisons of benefits packages.
Following some discussion, the Regents turned to consideration of the regular
agenda.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of September 20-21, 1990.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted monthly reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. He also submitted a
report on Non-Competitive Purchases Over $2,000 from Single Sources for the period
July 1-September 30, 1990. He responded to several questions about the investment
transactions, and to a question from Regent Baker about the cost of the handicapped
ramp being installed at Trotter House.
Vice President Kelly submitted reports on Projects Established —Research and
Other Academic Activities and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research. He
commented on the effect a sequester of federal funding would have on research
grants, and noted that both the National Institutes of Health and the National Science


-69 -



October Meeting, 1990


Foundation received favorable treatment in the next fiscal year's budget.
Following further comments about the federal budget process, Regent Smith
moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the Regents voted unanimously to receive the
reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted a Summary Report, Detail Report, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of September 1990. The Regents
received the following gifts with thanks and in accordance with their terms and
conditions:
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School College of Pharmacy, and Institute of Gerontology  91,577
American Chemical Society, Washington, b.C.
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts  164,943
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School                                             6,000
Bell-Northern Research Ltd., Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
for research in the College of Engineering                                    21,000
Bergstrom Foundation Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                     5,000
Betz Foundry, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                10,000
Judson B. Branch Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        50,000
Brompton Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Bockman/Hall and the Preston W. Slosson Fellowships in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                  20,705
Butterworth Obstetricians-Gynecologists, P.C., Grand Rapids
for the John R. G. Gosling Lecture in the Medica School                        5,000
Chevron Oil Field Research Company, La Habra, California
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Fluid Dynamics in the College of
Engineering                                                                   15,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            19,164
Mr. and Mrs. Carl P. Clare, Chicago, Illinois
for bio-engineering support in the College of Engineering                     50,000
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Clark, Dayton, Ohio
800 shares of Philips Industries, Inc., common stock; for the Mr. and Mrs.
William A. Clark Fund, a Donor Pooled Income Fund contribution
for the ultimate benefit of the Law School and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                         14,650
Clorox Comnany Oakland, California
for the Clorox Fellowship in the School of Business Administration             6,500
Gilbert A. Currie, Midland
for the Sports Service Building and scholarships in the Department of Athletics  52,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            35,000
Deloitte & Touche, Detroit
for accounting faculty support in the School of Business Administration        8,000
Delta Dental Fund Lansing
for research in the School of Social Work                                     14,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for scholarships in the College of Engineering                                10,000
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                 7,250
ETAK, Inc., Menlo Park, California
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Project in the College of Engineering  5,000
Environmental Research Institute of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for the Center for Fitness and Sports Research                                 5,000
FMC Corporation Princeton, New Jersey
for the FMC Corporation Fund in the College of Engineering                     5,000
Fitzgerald, Cox & Hodgman, Troy
for the A. D. Ruegsegger/Delta Theta Phi Scholarship in the Law School        30,000


-70 -



October Meeting, 1990


Ford Motor Company Dearborn
for Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems research in the College of Engineering  70,000
Ford Motor Company Fund Dearborn
for the Technology Partnership Program in the School of Business Administration  17,000
GE Financial Services, Schenectady, New York
Michigan Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business Administration  15,000
June R. Gantz Trust, West Palm Beach, Florida
for education and research in the Medical School                             10,000
Gibbs Brothers Foundation New York, New York
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering              5,000
Mrs. Phillip L. Graham, Washington, D.C.
64 shares of The Washington Post common stock; for the Michigan Journalism
Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies          15,408
Robert C. Graham Trust, Harbor Springs
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Guardian Industries Corporation, Northville
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               20,000
Honeywell, Inc., Avionics Systems Group, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for research in the College of Engineering                                   10,000
Hoover Foundation, Glencoe, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering                        5,000
Frederick G. L. Huetwell, Detroit
for the Medical School, Disabled Student Services, Shady Trails Building Fund,
the University Musical Society, and the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Scholarship  41,650
International Heart of Variety, New York, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School            13,832
J. P. Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Museum of Art                                                         5,000
Barbara Piasecka Johnson Foundation, Princeton New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts              6,300
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                          105,000
Louise Ganiard Johnson, Lyme, New Hampshire
11,800 shares of various corporate common stocks a $100,000 U.S. Treasury Note,
and cash gift of $400,806; a Unitrust contribution for the ultimate benefit
of the G. Lawton and Louise G. Johnson Professorship in the College of Engineering  1,003,395
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           23,136
Milton L. Kiebler Estate, Naples, Florida
7,092 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock; for the Milton and
Gertrude Kiebler Memorial Scholarship                                       312,935
Life and Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School                                            8,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Schools of Art, Business Administration,
Law~ Medicine, and Music; and in the Colleges of Architecture and Urban Planning,
Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts                             47,000
Lucille P. Markey Charitable Trust, Miami, Florida
for neuroscience research in the Medical School                             760,544
Martin Marietta Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,760
Mechanical Dynamics, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Engineering                                     9,736
Mediventures, Inc. Grosse Pointe Park
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             45,500
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for the solar car project in the College of Engineering and for computer
equipment for the University of Michigan-Dearborn                            26,000
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships and student aid in the College of Engineering               31,500
Mobil Research & Development Corporation, Dallas Texas
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Fluid Dynamics in the College
of Engineering                                                               15,000
A. P. & Chastine M. Moller Foundation, Copenhagen Denmark
for Danish Language Studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  6,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research at the University of Michigan-Flint                             25,000
Municipal Liability and Property Pool, Ann Arbor
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration  5,000


-71 -



October Meeting, 1990


Nissan Research & Development Company, Plymouth
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway System Project and other research
in the College of Engineerig                                                 76,400
Pathfinder Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for research in the School of Public Health                                  30,000
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvana
for the Pew Doctoral Program in Health Policy in the School of Public Health  205,000
Philips Display Components Company, Division of North American Philips, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society                                            5,000
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati Ohio
for student aid and other support in the College of Engineering               8,000
St. Paul Companies, Inc., St. Paul, Mimnesota
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             54,394
SmithKline Beecham, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      15,000
Majorie W. Spaulding Estate
for unrestricted support of the School of Nursing, and for the University
of Michigan                                                                  43,704
Taurus Products, Inc., Sterling Heights
for research in the College of Engineering                                   12,500
Telios Pharmaceuticals, Inc., La olla, California
for cardiovascular research in the Medical School                             8,500
Dr. and Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Clements Library Associates Program                                   5,000
Trimble Navigation Company, Sunnyvale, California
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Project in the College of Engineering  10,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the Unisys Minority Scholarship Program in the School of Business
Administration and for Employee Matching Gifts                                5,800
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            6,231
United Dairy, Inc., Martins Ferry, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Department of Athletics                       5,000
United Technologies Automotive, Dearborn
for manufacturing initiatives support in the College of Engineering          50,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for alumnae scholarships in the Alumni Association                            8,000
Ruth 0. Waldron Estate
for the Ruth 0. Waldron Fund and the Associates Program in the Clements Library  697,392
Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  10,970
Warren P. Williamson, Jr. Fund, Youngstown, Ohio
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration           10,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Lifeplus, Inc., Ann Arbor
a Lifeplus ergonomic exercise bicycle; for the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Lovey's Crafts & Etc. Fenton
eight boxes of patterns; for the University of Michigan-Flint Theatre Department
Philips Display Components Company, Ann Arbor
electronic equipment, including: TV monitors, AM/FM tuners, stereo cassette players, and an
audio amplifier; for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics
Unisys Corporation, Blue Bell, Pennsylvania
twenty model PWA20-80, Umsys 80386 microcomputers; for the School of Business
Administration
Eileen L. and Ronald N. Weiser, Ann Arbor
a Joseph Rosch violin ca. 1759, made in Mittenwald, Germany; for the Stearns Collection in the
School of Music


-72 -



October Meeting, 1990


Personnel Actions
Provost Whitaker submitted a number of personnel actions for approval by the
Regents. Vice President Kelly commented on a request to phase out the Center for
Molecular Genetics as of September 30, 1991, noting that this represented not a
failure, but a positive case in which a University unit successfully accomplished its
mission by putting in place the means to continue its work without the maintenance of
the original organizational structure. Following further discussion, Regent Varner
moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved the following
personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective November 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Anders A. F. Sima, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Pathology
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Isadore A. Bernstein, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, and Professor
Emeritus of Environmental and Industrial Health, School of Public Health, reappointed to active
status, fall term
Edward S. Bordin, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, reappointed to active status, fall term
Richard Edwards, Professor Emeritus of Far Eastern Art, reappointed to active status, fall term
Shaw Livermore, Jr. Professor Emeritus of History, reappointed to active status, winter term,
January 6, 191
Rhoads Murphey, Professor Emeritus of History, reappointed to active status, University year
Leonard Segel, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, reappointed to active status,
fall term
Joseph E. Sullivan, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, reappointed to active status, fall term
Keshav S. Varde Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, and Associate Dean,
School of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Engineering,
UM-Dearborn, for a three-year period
Joseph Vining~ Harry Burns Hutchins Collegiate Professor of Law, reappointed Harry Burns Hutchins
Collegiate Professor of Law for a five-year period
James B. White, L. Hart Wright Collegiate Professor of Law, reappointed L. Hart Wright Collegiate
Professor of Law, for a five-year period
Edwin H. Young, Professor Emeritus of Chemical Engineering and Professor Emeritus of Metallurgical
Engineering, reappointed to active status, fall term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Edward M. Gramlich, from Professor of Economics and Public Policy, Chair of the Department of
Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Artsz and Research Scientist, Institute of
Public Policy, to Professor of Economics and Public Policy, Chair of the Department of
Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Research Scientist, Institute of Public
Policy Studies, and Director of the Institute of Public Policy Studies, for a five-year period,
January 1, 1991
Izzeddin S. Habib, from Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, to Professor
of Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, and Interim Chair of the Department of Mechanical
Engineering, UM-Dearborn, for a ten-month period September 1, 1990
Machree Robinson, from Director of Academic Services, Administration, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, to Assistant Dean for Academic Programs, Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies, for a five-year period, November I, 1990


-73 -



October Meeting, 1990


Yuzuru J. Takeshita, from Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, and
Professor of Population Planning and International Health, with tenure, to Professor of Health
Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, Professor of Population Planning and International
Health, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Population Planning anlInternational
Health, for a three-year period, October 1 1990
Hal R. Varian, from Reuben Kempf Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts and Professor of Finance, without tenure, School of Business Administration
to Reuben  empf Professor of Economics, with tenure College of Literature, Science, and the
Artso Professor of Finance without tenure, School of Business Administration, and Interim
Chair of the Department of Ecnomics, College of theLiterature, Science, and the Arts, for a
six-month period, January 1, 1991
The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Richard E. Robertson, for the winter term, 1991, vice Herman Merte, Jr., sabbatical leave
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Committee
William R. Paulson, for the winter term, 1991, vice Stephen L. Darwall, sabbatical leave
Museum of Art Executive Committee
Victor H. Miesel, for a three-year period, ending June 30 1993, vice R. Ward Bissell, term expired
Theodore K. Ramsay, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1993, vice Mignonette Yin Cheng, term
expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Tom A. Croxton, for a one-year period, ending August 31, 1991, vice Srinika D. Jayaratne, resigned
Sheila C. Feld, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1993, vice Charles D. Garvin, term expired
Brett A. Seabury, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1993, vice JoAnn Allen, term expired
James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence. The Regents
approved the appointment of Robert Boyce Brandom as the James B. and Grace J.
Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence for the period September 18 through September 24,
1990.
T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics. The Regents
approved the appointment of Zhiren Jin as the T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant
Professor of Mathematics for a three-year period, effective September 1, 1990.
Richard Hudson Research Professor of History. The Regents approved the
appointment of Thomas N. Tentler as the Richard Hudson Research Professor of
History for the winter term, 1991.
E. Gifford and Love Barnett Upjohn Professorship in Internal Medicine and
Oncology. The Regents approved the establishment of the E. Gifford and Love
Barnett Upjohn Professorship in Internal Medicine and Oncology, effective November
1, 1990.
Center for Molecular Genetics. The Regents approved the phase out of the
Center for Molecular Genetics, effective September 30, 1991, and the appointments of
Drs. Irwin J. Goldstein and Francis S. Collins as interim co-directors of the Center for
Molecular Genetics for the period October 1, 1990, through September 30, 1991.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:


-74 -



October Meeting, 1990


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Collepe of Architecture and Urban Planning
A. Melissa Harris, MArch., Assistant Professor of Architecture
School of Dentistr
Walter A. Bretz, Dr.P.H. Assistant Professor of Dentistry
William D. Browning, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Eric W. Brust D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Jacquelin V. Burns-Robertson, Assoc., Lecturer in Dental Hygiene
William R. Chase, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Thomas M. Coburn, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Sandra M. Embree, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Samuel J. Frydenlund, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Maryann S. Griffith, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Kymberly L. Higgins-Barber, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Gregory A. Hummon, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
David Jacobson, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
James D. Kohler D.D.S. Lecturer in Dentistry
Sreenivas Koka, b.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Shari D. Lefton-Wolsky, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
MaryBeth Marcincin, D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry
Sophia P. Masters, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Adam T. Parsons, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Krista A. Richey, D.D.S Lecturer in Dentistry
Therese F. Shortt, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Carroll-Ann E. Trotman, MA., Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Juan F. Villar, D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry
Mary H. Walton, D.D.S Lecturer in Dentistry
Donald A. Wennersten, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
College of Engineering
Bernard J. Martin, Doctorat, Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hedy G. Frisancho, BA., Lecturer in Spanish
Raquel N. Gonzalez, MA., Lecturer in Spanish
Gerald J. Janusz, Ph.D., Lecturer in Mathematics, August 15, 1990
Naihuan Jing, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Smadar Karnl, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Ellen D. Kellman, MA., Lecturer in Yiddish Language
Patrice M. Some, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of French
Alan S. Young, Lecturer in Communication
Medical School
Ronald O. Bude, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology, September 24, 1990
Edward R. Calkins, M.D., Lecturer in Surgery
Miles O. Colwell, M.D., Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, October 1, 1990
Robert Dauser M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, September 4, 1990
Mohammad Ghaziuddin, M.B.B.S., Lecturer in Psychiatry, August 1, 1990
Janice Larouere, M.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, August 1, 1990
Genevieve Moineau, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, October 1, 1990
Jane M. Nicholson, M.D., Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Brian J. Wiatrak, M.D., Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngoogy
Lauren B. Zoschnick, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, October 1, 1990
School of Nursing
Rebecca S. Border, M.S., Lecturer in Nursing
Sandra S. Cherry-Garr M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Mary M. Hoenecke, M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing
Residential College
Jenifer M. Levin, B-A., Lecturer in Creative Writing and Comparative Literature


-75 -



October Meeting, 1990


CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Jonathan M. Paul, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, September 1, 1990 (previously reported as
Lecturer in Finance)
Medical School
John   Fink, M.D., Assistant Professor of Neurology, July 16, 1990 (previously reported as Lecturer in
Neurology)
Steven M. Leber, M.D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and
Assistant Professor of Neurology, July 1, 1990 (previously reported as Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases)
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Stephen D. Bernstein, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, September 1, 1990 (previously reported as
Lecturer in English)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentisry
William A. Gregory, from Assistant Professor of Dentistry to Lecturer in Dentistry
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hilary L. Cohen, from Assistant Professor of Theatre, School of Music, to Adjunct Assistant
Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
July 1, 1990
Medical School
Kevin M. Kelly, from Lecturer in Neurology to Instructor in Neurology
Vickie L. Massey, from Clinical Assistant Professor II in Radiation Oncology to Assistant Professor of
Radiation Oncology, July 1, 1990
Susan Urba, from Lecturer m Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
School of Natural Resources
Carol A. Jones, from Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and
Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Adjunct
Lecturer in Natural Resources, School oT Natural Resources, June 1, 1990
School of Nursing
Frances L. Mayes, from Lecturer in Nursing to Research Investigator in Nursing, January 1, 1990
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Scott E. Masten, Associate Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
College of Engineering
Daniel E. Atkins III, rofessor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical
leave September 1-December 31 1990
John L. Volakis, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Kenneth G. Blnmore, Professor of Economics, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1991
Robbins Burling, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, and Professor of Anthropology, with tenure,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Frank P. Casa, Professor of Spanish, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991




October Meeting, 1990


John R. Chamberlin, Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
Juan R. Cole, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1 -May 31, 1991
Nicholas B. Dirks, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Anthropology,
without tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Laura L. Downs, Assistant Professor of History, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Martha S. Feldman, Associate Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
John V. Fine, Jr., Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
Bert G. Hornback, Professor of Engish, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
David C. Huntington, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1990 -December 31, 1991
Carol F. Karlsen, Associate Professor of History and Women's Studies, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Donald R. Kinder, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology, without
tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Samuel Krimm, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Jeffrey K. MacKie-Mason, Assistant Professor of Economics, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Michael P. MacDonald, Professor of History, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Stuart Y. McDougal, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1990
Lawrence B. Mohr, Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
Oliver E. Overseth Jr., Professor of Physics, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1991
Scott G. Paris, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1991
John G. Pedley Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
David K. Rea, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
David L. Rolston, Assistant Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, scholarly activity leave,
January 1-May 31, 1991
Gregory R. Snow, Assistant Professor of Physics duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 1990
Karla T. Taylor, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, leave without
salary, January 1-May 31, 1991
Thomas R. Trautmann, Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Anthropology, without tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1990, and duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1991
Warren C. Whatley, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31 1991
Thomas C.WVill, Lecturer in Biology, personal leave, September 1-December 31, 1990
Medical School
C. Richard Boland, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, sabbatical leave, July 1 -December 31, 1990
Ari Gafni, Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1990-February 28, 1991
Anne B. Hill, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -February 28, 1991
Patricia S. Klarr Lecturer in Anesthesiology, extended sick leave, June 23-July 31, 1990
Myron Levine, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
William Martel Chair of the Department of Radiology and Fred Jenner Hodges Professor of Radiology,
duty off campus, January 15-April 15, 1990
Kathy S. O'Shea, Assistant Professor ol Anatomy and Cell Biology, duty off campus, September 1, 1990 -June 30, 1991
Jules A. Shafer, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, personal leave, September 1, 1990 -August 31 1991
James A. Taren, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-November 30, 1990
Joan L. Venes, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Department of Surgery, and Professor of Surgery,
without tenure, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1990-August 31, 1991
Gordon L. Amido, Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, sabbatical leave and intergovernmental
leave, August 5, 1990-August 4, 1991


-77 -



October Meeting, 1990


School of Public Health
Milagros S. Simmons, Associate Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1991
Lisa A. Weissfeld, Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, personal leave, September 1 -December 31, 1990
Residential College
Carl Cohen, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, Residential College, and Professor of Philosophy,
without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
School of Social Work
Armand Lauffer, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Bruce A. Richardson, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1990 -May 31, 1991
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Dentistrn
Khalid M. Ahmed, Lecturer in Dentistry, August 31. 1990
Jeffrey L. Ash, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, May 31, 1990
Armand G. del Rosario, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1990
Katherine Dryland-Vig, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, September 30, 1990
Glen C. McDowell, Assistant Professor of Dentistr, August 24, 1990
Krista A. Richey, Lecturer in Dentistry, August 3, 990
Chao-Wen Wang, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1990
College of En ineering
Yung-Chiia Lee, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, August 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
George H. Jones, Professor of Biology, with tenure, May 31, 1990
Juan F. Larrea, Lecturer in Spanish, May 31, 1990
Arthur Rich, Professor of Physics, with tenure, August 25, 1990
Medical School
Michael B. Donnelly Assistant Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education,
September 25, 1990
Harold L. IHusovsky, Clinical Instructor II in Internal Medicine, September 14, 1990
College of Pharracv
Thomas D. Rowe, Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Pharmacy, April 30, 1990
Retirement Memoirs
No retirements were reported to the Regents this month.
Memorials
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the following memorial:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the sudden
death of David Carew Huntington, professor of history of art, who died of a heart
attack on September 29, 1990.
A distinguished Americanist, Professor Huntington was known especially for his
writing and creation of exhibitions concerning the work of the great 19th century
painter, Frederic Edwin Church. His determined leadership was in large part
responsible for saving for the nation the artist's home and estate, "Olana," located at
Hudson, New York. As he wrote in an autobiographical sketch completed on the
morning of his death, "The success of that effort and the role that my publications


-78 -



October Meeting, 1990


played in restoring Church's reputation have brought me great satisfaction."
Professor Huntington was born in Scarsdale, New York, in 1922. He received
his B.A. degree from Princeton University in 1947, having interrupted his
undergraduate education for two years to serve as a United States Air Force pilot
during World War II. After graduation, he participated on an archaeological dig at a
blitzed site in London, worked in a shop at Boeing in Seattle, studied at Grenoble,
wandered about Europe, and taught French at the Middlesex School, before beginning
his career as an art historian by completing his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees at Yale
University. He came to the University of Michigan in 1966.
At the University of Michigan, Professor Huntington not only taught a wide
array of courses on American and British art for the Department of History of Art, but
also participated actively in the American Culture Program and the Environmental
Studies Program, in addition to serving on ten program or museum executive
committees and one editorial board. He chaired doctoral dissertations on a wide
range of subjects within the general fields of American and British art, and was
enthusiastically sought as a mentor by many students who were not his special subject
charges. His scholarship and his teaching together won crucial support for several
years for departmental students of American art from the Luce Foundation. His
service to the department was amplified during the years from 1985-88 when he served
as chair of the department and guided it successfully with clear vision through a period
of much change.
The lucid and elegant prose of David's books and catalogues explored areas
hitherto neglected by scholars, opening whole fascinating regions of our country's
intellectual and cultural heritage to a modern audience. His teaching was illuminated
by shared insights and the ability to inspire students to share his enthusiasm and
understanding of the wonders wrought on canvas and paper by human creative
imaginations.
David was a cherished colleague, for his wisdom, for his humanity, and for his
wit. Always generous with his time, his encouragement, his good advice, and his
punning comments, he enriched the lives of everyone who came in contact with him.
His warmth, his tolerance, and his incisive mind will be sorely missed by all who knew
him. As we mourn the loss of this exemplary member of the University community,
our condolences go to his wife Trudy, and his children Abigail, Daniel, and Caleb.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
approved certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists. They also
confirmed the degrees granted at the August 1990 commencement exercises.
Henry Russel Lecturer
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Minor J. Coon, Victor J. Vaughan
Distinguished University Professor of Biological Chemistry, as the Henry Russel
Lecturer for 1991.
June 30, 1990 Schedule of Investments; June 30, 1990 Inventories of the Common
Fund and Global Bond Fund
Vice President Womack submitted the June 30, 1990 Schedule of Investments


-79 -



October Meeting, 1990


and the June 30, 1990 Inventories of the Common Fund and the Global Bond Funds,
and responded to questions from the Regents.
Oppenheimer Institutional Horizon Partners
Vice President Womack informed the Regents that there had been a personnel
change in Oppenheimer Institutional Horizon Partners, a limited partnership for
reorganization investments, to which the University had committed $2.5 million in
March 1990. He noted that both David Thurston of Cambridge Associates (the
University's investment consultant), and the University's investment officer had done
extensive research on the change, with the result that they recommended continuing
with the University's commitment.
Estate of Margaret V. Whelan - Real Estate
Regent Baker moved, Regent Brown seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, sale of the Margaret V. Whelan residence in Boca Raton, Florida. The
proceeds, less closing costs, will be divided equally between the Medical School
Student Aid Fund and the Student Nurse Activity Fund, the designation of Mrs.
Whelan's estate.
Proposed Lease Agreement between the University of Michigan and BioQuant, Inc.;
Proposed Lease Agreement between the University of Michigan and Process
Biotechnology, Inc.;
Proposed Lease Agreement between the University of Michigan and TSRL, Inc.
Vice President Womack noted that each of these action requests involve
University employees who have begun small businesses housed in University property
at 1919 Green Road. Each is a request for authority for the University to enter into a
lease agreement with a corporation among whose principals are individuals who are
employees of the University. Because this type of agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute, certain disclosures of pecuniary interests and
terms of the contract are required, and the agreements must be approved by
two-thirds of the full membership of the Board of Regents.
Regent Roach said that although the Regents are generally supportive of this
type of technology transfer arrangement, he had several questions regarding specific
aspects of the relationships of these three companies with the University until this
time. Discussion followed about the definition of an "intellectual properties
incubation agreement", the relationship of these businesses with the University's
intellectual properties office, use of space at 1919 Green Road, the degree to which
these businesses had been subsidized by the University, and what happened to the
Michigan Research Corporation.
Regent Power suggested that the Regents be briefed on the whole issue of
intellectual properties and the nature of the University's support of technology
transfer activities undertaken by its faculty.
In view of the questions raised during this discussion, it was agreed to delay
consideration of these three items until the following morning.


-80 -



October Meeting, 1990


UM-Dearborn Student Fee Funded Activities and Athletics
Chancellor Wilson noted that in November 1986 the Regents had approved an
increase in student activity fees at UM-Dearborn to support an expanded intramural
athletics and recreational sports program, student orgamzations and activities, and a
reduced intercollegiate athletics program consisting of men's hockey, and women's
volleyball or women's basketball. (Approval was received later to conduct both
women's volleyball and basketball.) The 1986 action also stipulated that the results of
the proposal be evaluated at the end of three years by a committee appointed by the
chancellor.
The Student Affairs Advisory Committee (SAAC) was designated to conduct
the review of student fee funded activities and athletics. Chancellor Wilson reviewed
the conclusions of the SAAC report (the full report is contained in the Regents'
agenda):
1) The increased student fees did result in opportunities for expanded levels of
service to students and increased student participation, including marked
improvement in student organizations and student activities. As for the athletics and
recreation program, the study found that a disproportionate amount of the resources
designated for these activities had been committed to the intercollegiate hockey
program, to the detriment of the intramural and recreation program and the two
National Association Intercollegiate Athletic (NAIA)-sanctioned women's teams.
2) Student life on campus has improved measurably as a consequence of the
expanded student organization and student activities program, but there is a
continuing need for the development of a student center on the UM-Dearborn
campus.
3) The continuance of the reduced intercollegiate athletics program is not
feasible as it had been structured during the past three years, because the hockey team
had incurred an expense that the budget could not support and had operated at a
deficit for those three years.
4) The augmented program had generated increased support and participation
by local constituencies in the outside community.
Chancellor Wilson stated that four major decisions had been made as a result of
the review and report:
1) The student activities fee will not be increased.
2) Intercollegiate athletics on campus will be affiliated with the NAIA.
Chancellor Wilson noted that there had been an appeal for the UM-Dearborn to join
the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) to provide competition for the
campus' successful hockey team, but that the costs of NCAA participation are
prohibitive. She said that hockey will be a club sport for 1990-91, and that the Office
of Student Affairs will develop a program of recreational sports and wellness activities
to serve a large percentage of the UM-Dearborn student body.
3) The Board of Regents will be asked to approve a feasibility study to create a
student center concept for the Dearborn campus at a later date.


-81 -



October Meeting, 1990


4) The external consultants' organizational and administrative recommendations
about student activities and athletics will be reviewed by the dean of student affairs,
and a student advisory committee on campus life will be appointed to assure ongoing
student consultation about these matters.
Chancellor Wilson said that the evaluation process had been a very healthy,
positive one for the Dearborn campus.
Regent Smith reported that what happens on the Dearborn campus really
affects her community, and that the hockey team had generated a lot of pride in her
community and among the students. She said that students were upset about the
change in the hockey program. Regent Smith said that by the time she had received
the external report about the athletic program in July, the decision had already been
made to abandon the hockey program.
Chancellor Wilson said that the hockey team has not been dissolved. It had
been an intercollegiate sport for the past several years, and had not been recognized
by either NCAA or NAIA. As a club intercollegiate sport, it had been extraordinarily
successful, and that its current status as a club sport is not different than it had been
before. She reported that a new hockey coach had been hired, and that only 3 of the
26 hockey players from the previous year had left the institution.
Regent Smith asked for a schedule of games for the 1990-91 season. Dean
McKinley said 35 men had joined the hockey team, including all of the players from
last year's team who were still at the UM-Dearborn. She noted that the difference
between an intercollegiate program and a club program is that the intercollegiate
program offers scholarships.
Regent Nielsen reaffirmed that the hockey team had been a source of great
pride and had received much support on the Dearborn campus. He reported that he
and other board members had been inundated with requests that the hockey program
be kept alive, and that it maintain its high profile regardless of the cost. His personal
perception was that the current administration had done everything possible to cause
the hockey program to go down the tubes. Due to time constraints, he asked that the
discussion be suspended until the following day.
President Duderstadt agreed to that suggestion, and noted that from the
perspective of the executive officers, the process of evaluating the future of both
hockey and athletics and other student activities had been a thoughtful one that had
thoroughly involved the campus community, including students, faculty, and staff. He
believed that the conclusions represent the majority viewpoint among those
constituencies on the campus.
There followed a five-minute recess.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Gloria Newman, employee, about problems in the parking operations
office; Corey Dolgon, Mark Buchan, and Dawn Paulinski, students, about campus
safety.


-82 -



October Meeting, 1990


The meeting was then recessed until the following day.
Friday, October 19, 1990
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and
Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson.
The president called the meeting to order, and called on Provost Whitaker to
present the 1991-92 state budget request for the Ann Arbor campus.
1991-92 State Budget Request, Ann Arbor Campus
Provost Whitaker reminded the Regents that the General Fund budget has
three primary sources of revenue: tuition and fees, state appropriations, and indirect
cost recovery. He noted that the budget request consists of three components: funds
for the University to maintain its current level of activities in real terms
(inflation-adjusted), catch-up funds to make up for past shortfalls, and internal
reallocations to meet the University's highest central priorities.
Provost Whitaker displayed a chart demonstrating that state appropriations had
been below the level of inflation since 1981, using the Higher Education Price Index
(HEPI) as a basis for comparison. In response to a question from Regent Brown, he
said that the Consumer Price Index (CPI) ut s about.5 points lower than the HEPI, and
the state appropriation level would still have been below the level of inflation if this
index had been used. Provost Whitaker said that the HEPI more closely approximates
the goods that higher education institutions purchase than the CPI. President
Duderstadt pointed out that personal income in the state had shown significant growth
over the past five years, but that even given this increased capacity to restore higher
education funding, this had not been made a priority.
Provost Whitaker described the minimum needs incremental budget for
1991-92, which was designed to maintain the real level of purchasing power of the
University for the next year, without providing for growth or catch-up. It calls for a 6.5
per cent increase in state appropriation ($16.1 million), plus $.6 million for facilities
openings, a tuition increase of 6.5 per cent, and an increase in other revenue of 6.5 per
cent, for a total of $37.6 million. This minimum needs revenue increase would be
spent on incremental increases in salaries of 5.0 per cent ($15.6 million), staff benefits
of 10.0 per cent ($6.7 million), financial aid of 6.5 per cent ($2.7 million), facilities
openings of $.6 million, and other categories, including increases in utilities rates,
public safety and security, etc., of 8.0 per cent ($12.0 million).
The budget request also includes an extra 2.0 per cent increment ($4.9 million)
to make up for the shortfall in appropriation over the past ten years. This will be
applied to "catch-up" needs, including faculty and staff salaries ($1.5 million),
academic program underfunding ($1.5 million), and infrastructure maintenance ($1.9
million). The budget also calls for a 1.0 per cent reallocation of the total General


-83 -



October Meeting, 1990


Fund budget to be used for the highest institutional priorities (minority hiring and
start-up costs, special faculty salaries, additional financial aid, and new programs
support). The total incremental budget of 8.5 per cent totals $42.5 million, based on a
minimum HEPI inflation rate of 6.5 per cent, a CPI of 5.0 per cent, and a tuition
increase of 6.5 per cent.
Provost Whitaker said that if the inflation rate weere.7 er cent, the state
appropriation and tuition would have to be increased accordingly, for a total minimum
needs incremental budget of $44.4 million. Including an extra 2.0 per cent for "catch
up", the total incremental budget given a 7.7 per cent inflation rate would be $49.3
million.
Provost Whitaker pointed out that there are several risks associated with these
budget projections, including higher prices as a result of hostilities in the Middle East,
federal budget actions that change the amount of indirect cost reimbursement, a
possible rollback of current state appropriations, and an inflation rate even higher
than the current projections. He also noted that the recommendations of the report of
the Task Force on the Costs of Higher Education will have an impact over the next
several years in providing reallocation opportunities.
Following some discussion, the president called on Chancellor Wilson to present
the 1991-92 budget request for the Dearborn campus.
1991-92 State Budget Request, Dearborn Campus
Chancellor Wilson described a minimum needs incremental budget for 1991-92
of $3,152,000, of which $1,090,000 is to be funded from tuition and miscellaneous
revenue increases, and $2,062,000 is to be funded from state appropriation. These
figures presume a 6.5 per cent inflation rate, and would have to be revised if that
figure changes. Two critical areas identified for increased funding are new facilities
operating costs resulting from the general campus renovation program ($452,000), and
new faculty lines in critical areas to reduce the number of adjunct faculty ($196,000).
The remainder of the incremental budget includes $2,142,000 for salaries and staff
benefits, and $362,000 for nonsalary improvement.
1991-92 State Budget Request, Flint Campus
Chancellor Jones noted that, like the Dearborn campus, the UM-Flint is limited
to two major sources of revenue: state appropriation and tuition and fees. He noted
that the Flint campus is ranked thirteenth in state appropriation according to fiscal
year equated student (FYES), and is unable to meet the demand for expanded course
offerings and increased enrollments. As a consequence, other institutions are entering
the community to offer degree programs.
The UM-Flint 1991-92 incremental budget totals $3,455,000. Of this amount, an
increase of 11.0 per cent, or $1,777,000, is being requested in the form of state
appropriation (an 8.5 per cent increase, or $1,027,000, over the 1990-91 increment;
plus $500,000 for operating costs for the Water Street Pavilion and $250,000 to
supplement a 2.5 per cent internal reallocation for program enhancement and salary
adjustments). The remainder of the increment will be derived from a 6.5 per cent
tuition increase ($780,000), internal reallocation ($498,000), and the institution of a
$40 per student registration fee ($400,000).


-84 -



October Meeting, 1990


The chancellors, the provost, and the president then responded to questions
from the Regents about specific areas of the budget requests. It was pointed out that
there has been an increase in the number of four-year and community colleges that
offer off-campus programs leading to bachelors degrees, and that these force the
branch campuses to have to expend resources to remain competitive.
Following further discussion, the president pointed out that the Presidents
Council believes it is in the interest of the state to reach the level of the top third of
the states in higher education funding. This will require state appropriations increases
of 3.5 per cent over the rate of inflation for each of the next five years. If this does not
happen, it could eventually lead to the University's admitting fewer students,
reductions in program offerings, layoffs, or similar measures. Regent Roach
commented that faculty compensation at the Flint and Dearborn campuses needs to
be addressed, or quality will be affected. He also pointed out that if state
appropriations levels are not at the level requested, the University will be forced to
increase tuition by more than 6.5 per cent for 1991-92.
U.S. News & World Report Rankings
President Duderstadt called on Walter Harrison, executive director of university
relations, to comment about the recently published 1990 rankings of colleges and
universities, in which the University of Michigan placed 21st overall, 11th in academic
reputation, 36th in financial resources, and 44th in resources available to faculty. In
the category of expenditures per student, the University ranked 24th out of the top 25
universities.
From these rankings, Mr. Harrison said that the following conclusions can be
drawn: 1) Individual placement among the top rankings should not be taken that
seriously; they define the major leagues of universities in the country, and by any
ranking, the University of Michigan is in the major leagues. 2) The University is
providing superb academic education to its students for a fraction of the cost of most
of its peer institutions; it is already doing more with less. 3) In the last year, in the face
of declining state appropriations, the University dropped 20 points in financial
resources, showing that state appropriations have an affect on the rankings. 4)
Although the lead article about the rankings speaks to the need for universities to be
more cost conscious, the rankings reward those universities that spend the most money
per student.
Regent Power suggested that Mr. Harrison's evaluation be disseminated to
members of the legislature, newspaper editors, and other opinion makers in the state.
Regent Roach commented that the University's rankings fell mostly due to economic
reasons, and that the University of Michigan cannot be as selective as some private
institutions if it is to fulfill its basic mission providing an "uncommon education for the
common man".
Regent Baker pointed out that other prestigious universities ranked higher on
selectivity measures, test scores, and acceptance rates than did the University of
Michigan. President Duderstadt noted out that these factors discriminate against state
institutions and against large institutions. Mr. Harrison pointed out that the
University is one of the few universities in the countries whose applications increased
this year.


-85 -



October Meeting, 1990


Following further discussion, Regent Smith moved approval of the 1991-92 state
budget requests for all three campuses. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
Ernst & Young Management Report and Responses
Vice President Womack commented on the external audit process, noting that it
is a frank, critical review. He introduced Robert Emde, partner at Ernst & Young and
the University's engagement partner for this audit. Mr. Emde introduced Mr. Harold
Miller, partner, and Mr. Ed Nolan, senior manager, both of Ernst & Young, and Mr.
George Johnson, managing partner of George Johnson and Company. Mr. Emde
noted that the auditors had received excellent cooperation from all units of the
University. In each case the objective of the audits was to express an opinion on the
fairness of the financial position of each financial statement. He reported that in each
instance, the financial statements had stated fairly the financial position and changes
in fund balances, and that they had found no material weaknesses in the internal
control structure or other accounting procedures. The comments and
recommendations were designed to further strengthen already strong procedures and
controls that exist at the University, and Ernst & Young believes that management's
responses to the recommendations were constructive and appropriate.
The auditors and Vice President Womack then responded to questions and
comments from the Regents about specific findings of the audit. Regent Baker noted
that if the auditors had any concerns, the Regents were available to speak with them
privately, if necessary.
Resolution Marking Michigan Daily Centennial Celebration
Regent Power commented that this year marked the 100th year of publication of
The Michigan Daily, a newspaper on which he served as an undergraduate. He noted
that alumni of that newspaper were currently assembling on campus to celebrate this
anniversary. He then introduced the following resolution:
WHEREAS, The Michigan Daily this weekend is marking its 100th
anniversary;
WHEREAS, for 100 years the Daily has provided the University of
Michigan with independent, lively, and probing reporting and commentary on
University, local, state, national, and international events, and has thereby been
an important chronicle of our times;
WHEREAS, for 100 years working on the Daily has provided a significant
source of challenge and satisfaction to thousands of University of Michigan
students;
WHEREAS, alumni of The Michigan Daily have gone on to serve the
nation's media in a wide variety of important positions, and have thereby
contributed to the nation's understanding of the most important issues of our
time;
WHEREAS, Thomas Jefferson once wrote, 'Were it left to me to decide
whether we should have a government without newspapers, or newspapers
without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the latter. "


-86 -



October Meeting, 1990


BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Regents congratulates
The Michigan Daily and joins its alumni current staff, and generations of Daily
readers everywhere in celebrating its 100th anniversary.
Regent Smith seconded the motion. Regent Baker commented that the Daily
would have been out of business if the Regents had not acted five years ago to help
reform the Daily's financial structure. One of the recommendations at that time was
that the paid subscription format be changed to a free drop; other cost-cutting
measures were also recommended and undertaken. Regent Baker noted that it was
this action on the part of the Board of Regents that preserved the Daily, and that the
Regents were motivated only by a desire to ensure its continuation as an organ of free
expression on the campus.
The vote was then taken, and the resolution passed unanimously.
Tennis Center
Vice President Womack introduced a request for approval of a project to create
a new tennis center and authorize the site of the former Par Three Golf Course for the
facility. He then called on Mr. Fred Mayer, university planner, who gave a
presentation describing the background of the project and the proposed site. Vice
President Womack then introduced Athletic Director John Weidenbach, who
described the tennis program and emphasized the need for a new facility. He noted
that the tennis program currently operates in rented facilities, and he believed that a
new facility would greatly enhance the men's and women's tennis programs.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Mr. Weidenbach stated that
following approval of the site, a plan would be developed that would include all
expected costs. Vice President Womack reported to the Regents that procedures for
reviewing capital plans by the plant extension committee now included estimates of
capital costs as well as maintenance and operations costs, and that these estimates
would be included in requests for Regental approval.
Regent Brown moved, seconded by Regent Varner, designation of the former
Par Three Golf Course site as a location for a new University of Michigan Tennis
Center, and authorization to undertake detailed planning for the phased development
of a project on this site. Following further discussion, the vote was taken, and the
motion was approved unanimously.
Proposed Lease Agreement between the University of Michigan and BioQuant, Inc.;
Proposed Lease Agreement between the University of Michigan and Process
Biotechnology, Inc.;
Proposed Lease Agreement between the University of Michigan and TSRL, Inc.
Vice President Womack reintroduced these items, that had been tabled the
previous day. He said that in 1985-86, the Intellectual Properties Office had been
authorized to make available space at 1919 Green Road, for small business incubation
purposes. Earlier this year, he and Vice President Kelly had decided that rental
agreements for that space should be regularized through standard University
procedures. The three businesses in question have been renting the space from the
Intellectual Properties Office on a month-to-month basis. The proposed lease


-87 -



October Meeting, 1990


agreements represent a formalizing of what had been an informal arrangement, and
are the only three such arrangements that exist with University faculty members.
Vice Presidents Kelly and Womack then responded to questions and comments
from the Regents. Following the discussion, a vote was taken separately for each
proposed agreement. Regents Power and Waters were not present for the votes.
BioQuant, Inc. Regent Brown moved, Regent Baker seconded, and all six
Regents present unanimously approved, authorization for the University to enter into
a lease agreement with BioQuant, Inc. Because two principals of the company (Dr.
Willfried Schramm and Dr. A. Rees Midgley) are also University of Michigan
employees, this arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and
BioQuant, Inc.
2.  Terms of the contract include rental of 3,049 square feet of space at
the Printing and Auxiliary Services Building, 1919 Green Road, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, 48109-3203, at $10.80 per square foot, or $2,744.00
monthly. The duration of the contract will be seven months, with
option for one-year renewal.
3.  Drs. Midgley and Schramm's pecuniary interest arises from their
positions as principals of BioQuant, Inc.
Process Biotechnology, Inc. Regent Baker moved, Regent Brown seconded, and
all six Regents present unanimously approved, authorization for the University to
enter into a lease agreement with Process Biotechnology, Inc. Because the president
of Process Biotechnology, Inc. (Dr. Henry Y. Wang) is also a University employee, this
arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and Process
Biotechnology, Inc.
2.  Terms of the contract include rental of 584 square feet of space at the
Printing and Auxiliary Services Building, 1919 Green Road, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, 48109-3203, at $10.80 per square foot, or $526.00
monthly. The duration of the contract will be one-year, with option
for one-year renewal.
3.  Dr. Wang's pecuniary interest arises from his position as president of
Process Biotechnology, Inc.
TSRL, Inc. Regent Brown moved, Regent Roach seconded, and all six Regents
present unanimously approved, authorization for the University to enter into a lease
agreement with TSRL, Inc. Because the president (Dr. Gordon L. Amidon) and two
staff members (Mr. Glen D. Leesman and Mr. Patrick Sinko) of TSRL, Inc. are also
University employees, this arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:


-88 -



October Meeting, 1990


1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and TSRL,
Inc.
2.  Terms of the contract include rental of 1,165 square feet of space at
the Printing and Auxiliary Services Building, 1919 Green Road, Ann
Arbor, Michigan, 48109-3203, at $10.00 per square foot, or $971.00
monthly. The duration of the contract will be one-year, with option
for one-year renewal.
3.  Dr. Amidon's, Mr. Leesman's, and Mr. Sinko's pecuniary interest
arises from their positions as principal or employees of TSRL, Inc.
Capital Outlay Request, 1991-92, All Three Campuses
Vice President Womack stated that the 1991-92 capital outlay request is
identical to the one that was submitted to the state the previous year, except that the
estimated costs of a number of projects have been adjusted to reflect anticipated
construction cost increases. He pointed out that no capital outlay funding had been
forthcoming in recent years. He reviewed the projects for each campus, and noted
that an effort is underway to increase the bonding authority of the state. Vice
President Kennedy said that such legislation has been introduced, and that it is
expected to be adopted this year.
Following some discussion, Regent Nielsen moved approval of the 1991-92
capital outlay request for all three campuses. Regent Roach seconded the motion,
and it was adopted.
President Duderstadt then called on Chancellor Wilson to continue the
discussion of the UM-Dearborn athletic program.
Report on Student Fee Funded Activities and Athletics at UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Wilson introduced Donna McKinley, dean of student affairs, John
Devlin, chair of the faculty advisory committee on campus affairs, and Peggy Foss,
interim director of recreation and athletics and coordinator of physical education. She
distributed handouts describing expenditures for intercollegiate athletics and listing
the 1990-91 hockey schedule.
Cost of hockey program. Chancellor Wilson reviewed the information on the
expenditures handout. She noted that the cost of the hockey program in 1989-90,
which is not on the handout, was $112,437 (compared with $87,256 in 1988-89). In
1988-89, student fee revenues totalled $51,156 in revenues and scholarships. The
remainder of the revenue for intercollegiate athletics comes from the general fund
(42.1 per cent), private support, and ticket sales and miscellaneous. She pointed out
that in 1989-90, when the maximum student fee level was reached, there was a
significant increment in student fee revenue over the previous year.
In 1988-89, the intercollegiate athletics program operated at a deficit of $67,000,
and this was determined to be the result of an increasingly expensive hockey program.
This deficit had to be absorbed by the general fund. In 1989-90, the cost of the hockey
program was $112,437, while all other intercollegiate activities cost $23,000, and there
was a budget deficit of $64,522.


-89 -



October Meeting, 1990


Regarding the club hockey schedule, Chancellor Wilson noted that although this
is not a conference-recognized sport, since the NAIA does not recognize hockey and
the UM-Dearborn has not pursued NCAA recognition, it is a full schedule of 23
games of intercollegiate competition. She announced that the University had hired
Mr. Dave Rostic, former coach at both Eastern Michigan University and the
UM-Dearborn, to coach the hockey team.
Integrity of the review process and receptivity of the campus to the decisions.
Chancellor Wilson called on Professor Devlin who reported that the review process
had been very open, with many opportunities for all segments of the community to
give input about the value of athletics. The external review committee had generated
a report which was well-received. The student advisory committee reviewed all of
these findings and the comments of the various student and faculty groups on campus,
and concluded that the chancellor's decisions regarding the athletic program are very
acceptable to the campus.
Regent Brown noted that the Dearborn campus cannot have an NCAA hockey
team because the cost and the requirements are prohibitive and the NAIA does not
sanction hockey, and asked under what umbrella it functions. Dean McKinley
responded that it is an independent, intercollegiate program that is not eligible to
participate in post-season play. The 1990-91 schedule differs from the 1989-90
schedule in that many of the teams on the latter schedule were NCAA-sanctioned. In
response to a question from Regent Brown, Dean McKinley observed that the team
could still play NCAA schools if those schools' schedule could accommodate this.
Regent Brown commented that since the legal nature of the team hasn't changed, he
did not understand the concerns.
Chancellor Wilson pointed out that schedules are determined by the coaches,
and that there is no prohibition against a club hockey team playing any other team. In
response to a question from Regent Baker, Dean McKinley said that by definition,
club programs do not give scholarships, and that is the major difference between the
new program and the old program.
Regent Roach said that because the previous hockey program had to be heavily
subsidized, the Dearborn campus had been forced to make a hard choice, since it
simply could not afford it.
Regent Baker noted that at the time the hockey rink was built, the
UM-Dearborn was trying to build an identity beyond Dearborn. Although interests,
policies, and financial support may change, there is a history of strong support for the
hockey program.
Regent Roach pointed out that the student survey done at registration indicated
that 75 per cent of the students listed as their first priority opportunities for recreation
and outdoor exercise, the second choice (67 per cent) was easy access to sports and
recreation, third choice was weekend access to sports and recreation, fourth was
formally organized health and fitness courses, and fifth choice (24 per cent) was
athletic teams to compete with other universities. Thus when ranked in order of
relative importance, a competitive sports team was not as significant as the other
choices.


-90 -



October Meeting, 1990


Regent Nielsen pointed out that even on the Ann Arbor campus, the sports
program is not financially solvent. The Dearborn community has historically had a
strong hockey program, and the campus has historically supported a strong hockey
program. He noted that two years ago, Dearborn students had requested the
imposition of a $5.00 student fee for the purposes of operating the hockey program,
but that this had not been done. Regent Nielsen said that it appeared that the
administration wanted to shut down the hockey program.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Chancellor Wilson reported that
total student fees, at $25 per student per term, were $297,948 for 1988-89. She pointed
out that besides intercollegiate athletics, student fees fund student organizations and
activities, intramural and recreation, and intercollegiate athletics and scholarships.
Chancellor Wilson said that the Board had specified the percentage of the fee increase
that should be designated to each of these activities in its 1986 action.
Regent Smith pointed out the degree of importance attached to athletics on the
Ann Arbor campus vis a vis the Dearborn campus, as evidenced by the Regents'
earlier approval of a tennis center at an unspecified cost, while at the same time the
Dearborn hockey program was being allowed to deteriorate. She noted that the
external review committee had praised the hockey program, and had not
recommended downgrading it. She suggested that a referendum be held in which
students could indicate their preference for the type of athletic program they would
support.
Chancellor Wilson observed that people should not dismiss the validity of club
hockey as an intercollegiate, competitive, participative sport for students. The only
difference between the previous program and the current program is the specific
teams that will be played, and the cost of maintaining the program.
In response to a comment from Regent Nielsen, Professor Devlin said that
except for some people who were involved in the old program, the campus has anot
been demoralized by this issue. He noted that the faculty is pleased with the program
as being appropriate for a campus of their size and because the cost would not impact
negatively on academics.
In response to a question from Regent Smith about whether there would be a
referendum on campus, Chancellor Wilson said that the registration survey had
already provided an opportunity for every student to have input. She pointed out that
a referendum is concerned with only one issue, while the survey that was distributed to
all students at registration gave 100 per cent of the student body an opportunity to
state what was important to them.
Regent Smith said that her constituents do not favor campus-based intramural
and recreation programs because as commuters they don't have time for them; rather,
they prefer to have a team that they can support.
House Officer Affirmative Action Committee Summary, Recommendations, and
Progress Report
The Regents received a report of the findings and recommendations of a
committee of house officers, faculty, and administrators that addresses the issues of


-91 -



October Meeting, 1990


minority and female representation within the house staff at the University of
Michigan Hospitals.
Membership in the Michigan Society for Medical Research
Regent Baker moved, Regent Brown seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, membership in the Michigan Society for Medical Research.
Recommendations for Medical Staff Appointments
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on November 15-16, 1990. Regents' transportation, accommodation,
telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for September 1990 totalled $1,627.64.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secre


-92 -



NOVEMBER MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 15, 1990
The Regents met at 1:25 P.M. in the M Room of Crisler Arena. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and
Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Nielsen was absent.
President Duderstadt called on Regent Baker, who made the following motion:
Resolved that on advice of the secretary the November 15, 1990, meeting
of the Board of Regents of the University of Michigan be recessed to Crisler
Arena to conduct business and hear Public Comments. Mr. Kennedy has
recommended this recess based on the finding of the director of University
security, that he cannot guarantee the safety and security of members of the
Board and others in attendance at the Regents' meeting. This is because
demonstrators are occupying offices and disrupting the conduct of business in
the Fleming Administration Building, two demonstrations have been
announced in conjunction with the Regents' meeting, demonstrators appeared
at the president's house during the night, and there was a recent demonstration
at the residence of a Regent. In addition, threats have been received by
individual Regents. Because of the threat to safety, this resolution cannot be
read at the original place of the meeting.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously. Regent
Baker then left the meeting to honor another commitment.
CESF Report, Ann Arbor Campus
President Duderstadt called on Professor Eugene Imhoff, chair of the
Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF), to present the CESF
Report. Professor Imhoff reported that CESF is concerned with the general issue of
University resource allocation for noninstructional purposes. He distributed a report
that indicates that the percentage increase in noninstructional staff has been more
than double that of instructional staff over the past five years, to the current level of
3.7 support staff for each full-time-equivalent faculty member. He also noted that the
per capita cost of noninstructional staff is greater than that for instructional staff.
Professor Imhoff concluded his presentation by suggesting that a system be developed
for evaluating the effectiveness, efficiency, and productivity of noninstructional staff,
which according to CESF figures, account for more than 50 per cent of the General
Fund budget.
During the discussion that followed, the president noted that it is important to
leverage the human talent of the faculty, and that this requires the use of technicians
and other support staff. He also suggested that there be cross comparisons with other
institutions, and that the time frame for comparisons be extended to the 1970s.


-93 -



November Meeting, 1990


Professor Imhoff suggested that nonprofit, public institutions need to develop
measures of effectiveness and efficiency to measure performance, as is done in private
institutions, and that they need to view customers as opportunities, rather than
burdens. Regent Roach pointed out that much of the increase in noninstructional
personnel can be attributed to the expansion of research activity. Regent Power
suggested that more useful statistical data needs to be developed to describe and
analyze resource allocation and manage space efficiently.
Provost Whitaker observed that much of the growth of support staff has
occurred in non-general-fund supported activities, and that it is not concentrated in
central support staff, but rather is in the schools and colleges. He agreed that it will be
important to consider productivity measures in implementing cost-saving measures in
the future.
President Duderstadt congratulated Regent Power and Regent-elect Shirley
McFee on their recent election to the Board of Regents. There followed a round of
applause. He then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of October 18-19, 1990.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory, Plant Extension, Litigation, and
Personnel-Labor Relations. He distributed a handout describing the investment
performance of the University Investment Pool, and commented that the investment
advisory committee had recently met and confirmed that the University should remain
committed to its "value" investment philosophy.
The Regents also received reports on Projects Established —Research and Other
Activities and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored Projects.
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted to
receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted Summary Reports, Detail Reports, and a
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of October 1990. The Regents
received the following gifts with thanks and in accordance with their terms and
conditions:
AIRCO Coating Technology, Fairfield, California
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering              5,000
AT&T Foundation, New York New York
for research in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  40,965
Allied-Signal, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation  7,500
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Pharmacy    112,575
American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, Washington D.C.
for research in the College of Literature Science, and the Arts      6,000
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                        12,000
-94 -



November Meeting, 1990


American Heart Association Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                          122,043
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           20,050
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           35,750
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature Science, and the Arts              10,268
American Society of Hematology, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the Medical School                                            7,500
Amoco Corporation, Amoco Research Center, Naperville, Illinois
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering                      15,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Macromolecular Research Center, and for Employee Matching Gifts       8,020
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  81,343
Anonymous Donor
for support of the Minority Workstudy Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                         5,000
Anonymous Donor
for support of the Minority Workstudy Program in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research i the Medical School                                            45,917
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           13,333
BT Foundation, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                              15,180
William E. Bandemer Estate
for the William E. Bandemer Scholarship in the College of Engineering        45,023
Carl F. Beaver Estate
for the Carl Beaver Scholarship Endowment in the Medical School, and for the
Hannah Catherine Beaver Scholarship Endowment in the School of Music         96,784
Elma L. Benz, Sun City, Arizona
for the Elma L. Benz Allergy Fund in the Medical School                      50,000
Biomechanics Corporation of America Melville, New York
for research in the College of Engineering                                   10,000
William Blair & Company Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the William R. Jentes Merit Scholarship in the Law School                48,000
F. A. and A. M. Bower Charitable Trust
for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School               10,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Briarwood Associates, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Fund                      5,000
Robert P. Briggs, Elk Rapids
200 shares of Society Corporation common stock, and cash gift of $200;
for support of the Alumm Association, Department of Athletics, Bentley Library,
School of Business Administration, Clements Library, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, Museum of Art, and the University Musical Society      5,350
Floydene B. Brownlee, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               25,000
Carnegie Corporation of New York, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          135,844
Lucile Thomas Cecil Estate
for scholarships in the Law School, and for scholarships and other support
in the Department of Athletics                                            2,000,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
Citibank (Delaware), New York, New York
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                              15,450
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarships in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        10,000
Council on Library Resources, Washington, D.C.
for research in the School of InTormation and Library Studies                20,000


-95 -



November Meeting, 1990


Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           32,982
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit
for research m the Medical School                                             7,500
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for the Paul W. McCracken Professorship in the School of Business Administration,
and for support of the College of Engineering                                54,600
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, School of Public
Health, Macromolecular Research Center, and Career Planning and Placement    10,000
Catherine W. Duffy, Port Huron
848 shares of IBM Corporation common stock, and cash gift of $99; for the
Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                       91,948
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership in the School of
Business Administration                                                      15,000
Exxon Company, U.SA., Houston, Texas
for scholarships and other support in the Schools of Business Administration
and Law, and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts  34,500
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for chemistry research and training in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and for Employee Matching Gifts                                16,500
Frederick J. Fischer Estate
for the Fischer Research Fund in the Medical School                          56,038
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Law School, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and the Institute for Social Research  462,135
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and m the Office for the Study of Automotive Transportation  135,000
Ford Motor Company, Robotics & Automation, Dearborn
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  25,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration           25,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for fellowships and scholarships in the School of Business Administration,
and the College of Engineering                                               30,000
Gannett Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for the Center for Educational Improvement                                   10,000
Garden Club of Dearborn, Dearborn
for the Alice Simpson Memorial Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn    7,500
Richard T. Garrett, Bay Village, Ohio
1,000 shares of Kellogg Corporation common stock; for the Richard T. and
Marilyn Holtom Garrett Fund in the Medical School                            65,938
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for the Solar Car Pro ect in the College of Engineering                      30,645
Giant Yellowknife Mines, Ltd., Timmins, Ontario, Canada
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts       9,504
Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Foundation, Southfield
for the Sheldon C. Glass Memorial Fund in the Medical School                 34,235
B. F. Goodrich Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the College of Engineering                                   40,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             35,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Guardian Industries Corporation, Northville
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering                      25,000
Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             96,300
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for eye research in the Medical School                                       42,630
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto California
for research in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  25,000
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
tor research in the Medical School                                           15,000


-96 -



November Meeting, 1990


IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for program development in the College of Engineering                        50,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott, New York
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering                      55,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering             127,911
Jewish Welfare Federation of Detroit Detroit
for the Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                             12,500
Phyllis K. Johnson Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,369
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Public Health                                  25,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           35,913
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Foundation Funds in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  27,000
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the Medical School                                           60,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research and other support in the Schools of Education and Public Health
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the University of Michigan-Flint,
and for the Middle English Dictionary                                       688,847
Kenny Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            6,013
Elvina A. Kish, Ann Arbor
for the George Kish Fund in the Clements Library                             10,000
Esther A. and Joseph Klingenstein Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Education                                      14,500
Mary E. Labour Trust
for scholarships and discretionary support in the School of Music            18,901
Leukemia Society of America, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           17,415
Seymour H. Levitt, M.D. and Therapeutic Radiology Associates, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Isadore Lampe Fund in the Medica School                               5,000
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             20,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard Zell/Leonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the
School of Business Administration                                            31,150
David R. MacDonald, Bethesda, Maryland
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                            5,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School and in the Institute of Gerontology       45,000
Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for discretionary support of the College of Pharmacy                         50,000
Matsushita Electric Corporation of America, Cypress, California
for Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Research in the College of Engineering  50,000
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for support of the College of Engineering                                    25,000
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Akron, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   10,000
Alice H. McLachlin Estate
for the Alice H. McLachlin Student Loan Fund in the Medical School           29,642
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for fellowships in economics and area studies in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       125,000
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey
for the Merck Sharpe & Dohme Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      50,250
Mid America Institute for Public Policy Research, Chicago, Illinois
for finance faculty support in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Milheim Foundation for Cancer Research, Denver, Colorado
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
for the J. Robert Wilson Professorship in the Medical School                 12,000
Ministry of Transportation, Downsview, Ontario, Canada
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Project in the College of Engineering  5,000




November Meeting, 1990


Mitsui Mutual Lifsurae Insurance Company, Tokyo Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center in the School of Business Administration  600,000
Monsanto Company St. Louis, Missouri
for the Biophysics Research Division                                         50,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for research in the Transportation Research Institute                       213,500
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research m the Medical School                                            36,250
NBD Bank, NA., Detroit
for unrestricted capital support of the School of Business Administration    25,000
NEC Corporation, Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering                                   10,000
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                           24,601
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           18,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research m the Medical School                                            26,347
Nippon Life Insurance Company, New York, New York
for the Nippon Life Professorship in the Law School                         200,000
Nippon Steel Chemical Company, Ltd. Tokyo, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering                                   20,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc. Plymouth
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business
Administration                                                               15,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
for the Associates Program and Student Financial Aid in the School of Business
Administration and for Employee Matching Gifts                                7,385
Donald H. Parsons, Palm Beach, Florida
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                            5,000
LaRue I. Pemberton Trust
for the University of Michigan-Flint Library and Learning Center             50,00
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration   25,000
Ward L. Quaal, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               20,000
Reese Family Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for research in the Medical School                                           50,000
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Davis, California
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Research to Prevent Blindness Endownment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           30,000
Dean E. Richardson, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Barbara Trytten Richardson and Dean Richardson Funds in the
School of Art, and for the Law School and the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital  8,700
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts              8,565
Richard D. Rohr, Grosse Pointe
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health, and in the Institute for Social Research  38,282
Schwartz Boring Company, Inc., Detroit
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation Houston Texas
for the Shell Company Funds in the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        40,000
William G. Simeral Trust, Greenville, Delaware
for the William G. Simeral Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  25,000
William T. Smith, Fort Worth, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           54,654
Society Bank Michigan, Ann Arbor
for the Medical School and the University Musical Society                     5,500
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education                                     102,950


-98 -



November Meeting, 1990


Star Enterprise, Houston, Texas
for scholarships in the College of Engineering                                 5,000
Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
for support of the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                  20,000
Sumitomo Electric U.SA., Inc., New York, New York
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Project in the College of Engineering  50,000
Frederick M. Sutter Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        15,000
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership in the School of Business
Administration                                                                15,000
Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
for research in the Medical School                                             5,850
Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the President's Fund                                                      30,996
Trenton-Grosse Ile Fire Fighters Association, Trenton
for burn research and education support in the Medical School                  5,000
UAW-GM Human Resource Center, Auburn Hills
for research in the Medical School                                             5,000
Unisys Corporation, Plymouth
for the Distinguished Lecture Series in the College of Engineering            14,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                             6,083
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                    6,725
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucille B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor
for the Center for the Education of Women                                      5,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, D.C.? Fairfax, Virginia;
for the Washington, D.C. University of Michigan Club Scholarship               7,500
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury California
for the Alexander S. Vida Memorial Medical Scholarship in the Medical School  35,000
James A. Walgreen, Woodstock, Illinois
627 shares of Walgreen Corporation common stock; for the Stearns Collection
of Musical Instruments                                                        29,704
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division1 Ann Arbor
for the Medical School, and the University Musical Society                    60,100
White's Disposal, Inc., Gladwin
for research in the Medical School                                             5,000
John M. Winters, Jr. Estate
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    15,000
Winthrop Pharmaceuticals,-New York, New York
for thoracic surgery support in the Medical School                             7,200
William F. Wolff III, New York, New York
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                5,000
Samuel Zell Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard Zell/Leonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the School of
Business Administration                                                       31,150
Dena B. Zimmerman, Plantation Florida
a Brownsville School Building bond; for research in the Medical School         8,117
Nell Scott Zoellner Estate
39,323 shares of various corporate securities; for the Karl Zoellner Memorial
Endowment in the Alumni Association                                        1,228,954
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Astro Sound, Ann Arbor
a Tascam M-50 mixer and a compressor/limiter; for WUOM
Carpet Barn Ann Arbor
6,997.5 square yards of carpet, vinyl sheeting, and miscellaneous installation materials; for the
Sports Service Building, Department of Athletics
Medox Electro-Optics, Inc., Ann Arbor
a FaradayRotator; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Frank S. Moyer, Ann Arbor
electronic video equipment; for the Department of Biomedical Communications
Sheffield Measurement Division, Warner & Swasey Company, Dayton, Ohio
a Horizon coordinate measuring machine; for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and
Applied Mechanics


-99 -



November Meeting, 1990


Personnel Actions
Provost Whitaker and Chancellor Wilson commented on some of the personnel
actions before the Regents. On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent
Roach, the Regents unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective July 1, 1991 unless otherwise indicated
Chemistry
Mark S. Mizruchi, Ph.D., Professor of Sociology, September 1, 1991
Robert L. Simpson, Ph.D.,Provost a Vice Cnncll for orAcademic Affairs, UM-Dearborn, and
Professor of Biology, UM-Dearborn
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective Januay 6, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Herbert C. Barrows, Jr., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to active
status, winter term
Deming B. Brown, Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures, reappointed to active status,
winter term
David Schoem, Assistant Dean for the Freshmen and Sophomore Years, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, reappointed as Assistant Dean for Undergraduate Education, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, for a three-year period, January 1,1991
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Josephine P. Briggs, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicin with tenure,to Associate Professor o Miciir
Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Physiology, without tenure,
October 1, 1990
Louis E. Loeb, from Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, to Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and
Acting Chair of the Department of Philosophy, winter term, January 1, 1991
Harrison L.  orton, from Associate Dean School of Natural Resources, and Professor of Forest
Pathology and Urban Forestry, with tenure, to Professor of Frest Pathology and Urban Forestry,
with tenure and Interim Dean, School of Natural Resources, for a one-year period,
January 1 i991
Frederick C. Neidhardt, from the Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor of Microbiology
and Immunology with tenure, to the Frederick G. Novy Distinguished University Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, and Assistant Dean for Faculty Affairs, Medical
School, November 1, 1990
Jeffrey M. Trent, from Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, and the Emanuel N. Maisel
Professor of Oncology, to Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, the Emanuel N. Maisel
Professor of Oncology, and Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, October 1, 1990
The following committee appointments were approved:
Advisory Committee on Recreational Soorts
Maria R. Kupillas, student delegate, for a two-year period, ending October 31, 1992, vice Gary G.
Teschke, term expired
Eric G. Moore, student delegate, for a two-year period, ending October 31, 1992
Erika M. Wolf, student delegate, for a two-year period, ending October 31, 1992
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Lynn Chia, student delegate, -for a two-year period, ending October 31, 1992, vice Stephen W. Roeder,
term expired


-100 -



November Meeting, 1990


Committee on Honorarv Degrees
Shira Goodman, student delegate, for a two-year period, ending June 30, 1992, vice Sarah S. Riordan,
graduated
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Lawrence I. Berkove, substitute for Linda E. Fisher during promotion and tenure deliberations
Julia C. Tai, substitute for M. Kazem Mostafapour during promotion and tenure deliberations
E. Gifford and Love Barnett Upjohn Professor of Internal Medicine and
Oncology. The Regents approved the appointment of Stephen J. Weiss, M.D., as the
E. Gifford and Love Barnett Upjohn Professor of Internal Medicine and Oncology for
a five-year period, effective November 15, 1990.
Vice President for Research. The Regents approved the appointment of
William C. Kelly, Interim Vice President for Research and C. Scott Turner Professor
of Geological Sciences, as Vice President for Research and C. Scott Turner Professor
of Geological Sciences for a three-year period, effective September 1, 1990.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Gwen L. Alexander, M.P.H., Lecturer in Dentistry
Buena L. E. Dominguez, D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry
Michelle L. Elford, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Bradford M. Eschler, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Allan Jacobs, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, October 1, 1990
Prabha Raju D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Elda P. Ricalde, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, July 1, 1990
Edward A. Sawlcki, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, September 27, 1990
Clifford L. Thomas, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Philip D. Woods, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
JohnC. Mitant, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropolog
Ellen A. Plummer Ph.D., Lecturer in History of Art  urator of Education, Museum of Art,
October 1t 1990
Roger C. Rouse, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology
Charlotte G. Steeh, Ph.D., Lecturer in Sociology, October 1,1990
Hailin Wang, M.S., Lecturer in Physics, January 1, 1991
Law School
Donald N. Duquette, J.D  Clinical Professor II of Law
Paul D. Reingold, J.D. Cinical Professor II of Law
Suellyn Scarnecchia, J:b., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Law
Medical School
Gopa H. Majmudar Ph.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, October 22 1990
David S. Rosen, M.b1., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Dbiseases, October 1, 1990
School of Music
Calvin H. Elliker, MA., Assistant Professor of Music, October 15, 1990
School of Nursing
Linda L. French,M.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing


-101 -



November Meeting, 1990


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Collee of Literature, Science and the Arts
Eshel Ben-Jacob, Assistant Professor of Physics, extended sick leave, October 10-November 30, 1990
Jane R. Burbank, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, September 1 -December 31 1990, and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 991
John Eo Fornaess, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1990
Ma 31, 1991
Zhiren JinT. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991
Roger C. Rouse, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, scholarly activity leave, September, 1990 -May 31, 1991
Medical School
Prasanta K Datta, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, duty off campus, November 4 -December 19 1990
Joseph E. Johnson IIi, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, administrative leave,
November 1, 1990-April 30, 1991
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Paul A. Boghossian Associate Professor of Philosophy, change of sabbatical leave, January 1 -December 31, 1991 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1991)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
David C. Huntington, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, September 29, 1990
John Mersereau Jr Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, December 31,1990
Jacob M. Price, Piroessor of History, with tenure, December 31 1990
David E. Rauma, Assistant Professor of Sociology, May 31, 1996
Medical School
Donald J. Buchsbaum, Assistant Professor of Radiation Therapy, September 30, 1990
Yuji Hidaka, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, September 22, 1990
Gilbert Keeney, Lecturer in Radiology, October 4, 1990
Steven B. Silverman, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, November 9, 1990
Michael J. Sullivan, Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, October 31, 1990
John R. Wesley, Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, December 31, 1990
Retirement Memoirs
No retirements were reported to the Regents this month.
Resolution in Honor of Phyllis Ocker
Regent Smith moved approval of the following resolution:
The Regents of the University of Michigan commend Phyllis M. Ocker for
her exemplary service as associate director of intercollegiate athletics for women's
sports and assistant professor of sports management and communication in the
Division of Kinesiology.
A native of Washington, Phyllis Ocker was educated at the University of
Washington, Smith College, Oregon State University, and the University of


-102 -



November Meeting, 1990


Michigan. From 1949-61, she gained experience teaching, coaching, officiating,
and administering women's athletic programs at a Washington high school and
at Smith College, the University of Texas, and Oregon State University. She also
competed herself in tennis, softball swimming, field hockey, and badminton.
Ms. Ocker came to the University of Michigan in 1961 as associate supervisor of
physical education for women and lecturer in physical education for women.
She was promoted to assistant professor in 1968, and became associate director
of women's athletics in 1978. She served as the University of Michigan's first
field hockey coach from 1974-78.
As a member of the president's committee to study women's athletics
(Burns committee) in 1973, as field hockey coach, and as the University's top
administrator for women's athletics, Phyllis Ocker has been instrumental in
establishing and nurturing the women's intercollegiate athletic program. In 1974,
her first field hockey team consisted of women who had never played
competitively before. Under her guidance, the women's athletic program has
since expanded to include ten varsity sports in which nearly 200 women
participate, with the NCAA scholarship limit being offered in every sport but one.
Phyllis Ocker established the Academic Hall of Honor for women
scholar/athletes, and has served on numerous Big Ten, state, and local
organizations and committees having to do with women's athletics. She coached
the Ann Arbor Huron High School championship girls' softball team from
1972-76, is active in the Wolverine Council of Boy Scouts of America, and has
been a member of the Michigan League Board of Governors since 1983.
The Regents of the University of Michigan salute Phyllis M. Ocker for her
pioneering leadership in women's athletics, and wish her a rewarding and
fulfilling retirement.
Regent Roach seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
approved the tenative doctoral degree list for the December 1990 commencement.
On the recommendation of the proper authority in each case, the Regents also
approved certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists.
Honorary Degrees
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved several recommendations for recipients of honorary degrees.
University of Michigan 1990 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for Year
Ended June 30, 1990
The Regents received the University of Michigan 1990 Financial Report
Supplemental Schedules for the Year Ended June 30, 1990.


-103 -



November Meeting, 1990


Six Month Report on University Audits
Mr. Carl Smith, director of university audits, submitted the regular Six Month
Report on University Audits for the period April 1 through September 30, 1990. Mr.
Smith responded to questions and comments from the Regents.
The Common Fund
Vice President Womack reviewed the Regents communication describing
changes that have occurred in both the manager teams and in investment strategy of
funds managed by the Common Fund. The latter changes involve the South Africa
Free Equity Fund.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, University Investment Officer
Norman Herbert reported that the University's total commitment to the Common
Fund is about $225 million, including $23 million in the Tactical Asset Allocation
Program (TAA). Regent Smith commented that the TAA was not performing as had
been expected, and that this poor performance had hurt the University's portfolio. As
a result, she would not support continued participation in this program.
Vice President Womack responded that the TAA is only one piece of the
Common Fund's overall strategy, and that it is important for the short term, given the
University's lack of investment diversification. Following further discussion, Regent
Power moved authorization for continued participation in Common Fund pools,
recognizing that the Common Fund will actively manage the investment managers and
strategies, and further, that the Board will be kept informed of any changes in
management strategy for the pools in which the University participates. Regent
Brown seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Bond Investment Quality Guidelines
Vice President Womack explained that because the University's investment
guidelines prohibit holding stocks, bonds, and other securities with ratings below
specified levels, managers are required to sell such securities when they reach such
levels. Given the current financial climate, numerous securities have already or will in
the near future may be downgraded. In such situations, there may be occasions where
it would be in the University's best interests to allow such a position to be maintained
with the approval of the vice president and chief financial officer.
Regent Smith moved that the vice president and chief financial officer be
authorized to review and approve the holding of fixed income securities that have
been downgraded below levels specified in the University's investment guidelines.
Such holdings will be limited to no more than five per cent of the aggregate portfolio
of the fixed income managers, and individual securities will not be held for more than
three years. Such holdings will be reviewed by the Board of Regents every six months
and closely monitored by the investment officer.
Regent Varner seconded the motion, and, following further discussion, it was
adopted unanimously.
Fidelity Management Trust Company
Vice President Womack informed the Regents of a personnel change that had


-104 -



November Meeting, 1990


occurred in the management of the Income-Managed Discipline of the Fidelity
Management Trust Company, which handles the University's portfolio.
Estate of William H. McClure, Oil and Gas Lease
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the paid-up oil and gas lease on the estate of William H.
McClure, submitted by Vadnais Energy Corporation on behalf of Atlantic Richfield
Corporation.
Financing for University of Michigan Hospitals' Capital Projects, Renovation Projects,
and Equipment Replacement
Vice President Womack reported that the hospitals' financial advisors believed
that in order to maintain its competitive position, the hospitals need to maintain a
substantial cash and investment capital position rather than to spend cash on future
capital projects. Further, the consultants indicated that the hospitals could assume up
to $160 million in new debt while still maintaining their rating by Standard & Poor's
and Moody's. Thus, the hospitals are seeking approval to issue tax-exempt debt for
various capital expenditures that have already been incurred in anticipation of
permanent tax-exempt financing or for expenditures to be incurred in the near term
for annual equipment replacement or new construction projects. The bonds would be
limited obligations of the Regents payable solely from hospital gross revenues and
equally and ratably secured solely by pledged hospital gross revenues and any moneys
credited to any funds or accounts created by the Master Indenture and Series
Indenture administered by the master trustee and series trustee.
Regent Power moved, seconded by Regent Brown, that the vice president and
chief financial officer be authorized and directed to proceed with a program for the
financing of the hospital capital expenditures, either a long-term fixed rate or a
variable rate issue, and in particular, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
that the vice president and chief financial officer be authorized and directed as
follows:
1) together with the investment bankers, to develop the terms and legal
documentation for the bonds, and to prepare and circulate a preliminary official
statement describing the bonds and the University and its affairs; and
2) to apply for and obtain from Moody's Investors Service and Standard &
Poor's Corporation their ratings on the bonds; and
3) to obtain a final proposal for the bonds, including price and interest rates,
which final proposal would be submitted to the Board of Regents for its approval and
acceptance.
Following some discussion, during which Vice President Womack responded to
questions and comments from the Regents, the vote was taken and the motion was
approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals Child Care Center
Vice President Womack informed the Regents that a contract had been


-105 -



November Meeting, 1990


awarded to the lowest bidder, MSI, for construction of the University of Michigan
Hospitals Child Care Center.
University of Michigan Hospitals Mott Renewal Project
Vice President Womack introduced Mr. John Forsyth, executive director of
University of Michigan Hospitals. Mr. Forsyth noted that whereas the second phase of
the Maternal and Child Health Center project, currently underway, addresses specific
clinical requirements of Mott Children's Hospital, the focus of the Mott Renewal
Project is the overall renovation and upgrading of Mott Hospital.
Mr. Forsyth described the Mott Renewal Project in general terms, and then
introduced Mr. Doug Hanna, assistant director of capital programs, who gave an
illustrated presentation describing each major component of the project. The project
consists of seven major components: 1) replacement of building components, such as
ceilings, floor coverings, signage, lighting, piping, duct work, heating/ventilation/air
conditioning units; 2) reconfiguration of the inpatient units on Mott floors 5-7,
increasing the number of beds from 131 to 137 and adding additional office space; 3)
renovation of the existing operating rooms; 4) addition of two new operating rooms
and two recovery rooms; 5) expansion of pediatric radiology by adding a fifth
radiographic room and an ultrasound exam room; 6) addition of dock, storage,
communications, and general storage space; and 7) construction of a two-level
building to the immediate west of Mott Hospital, extension of the upper four floors of
the Med Inn Building, and demolition of Women's Hospital for use as a potential
hospitals' expansion site.
The budget for the Mott Renewal Project is $49 million. Funding will be
provided from either the capital reserves or financed by issuance of debt secured by a
pledge of the hospitals' gross revenues, or a combination thereof.
Following some discussion, Regent Roach moved initiation of the design
process, appointment of Albert Kahn Associates, Inc., as the architecture/engineering
firm, and filing of a Certificate of Need application with the Michigan Department of
Public Health for the Mott Renewal Project. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and
it was approved unanimously by all seven Regents present.
There followed a brief recess.
Renovation and Construction Projects
Vice President Womack presented the following projects for the Regents'
consideration: 1) construction of a new commuter surface parking lot on Glazier Way
immediately east of the new UMH Child Care Center; 2) interior refurbishing of Inglis
House; 3) renovation of the pediatric and general ophthalmology clinics at the
University of Michigan Hospitals; and 4) renovation of the operating room suite at the
Kellogg Eye Center. Following some discussion, Regent Brown moved, Regent
Varner seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved proceeding with the
projects as described.
Prescription Athletic Turf for Michigan Stadium
Vice President Womack introduced Mr. John Weidenbach, interim director of


-106 -



November Meeting, 1990


athletics, to describe a proposal for installation of Prescription Athletic Turf (PAT
natural grass) at Michigan Stadium. The project includes installation of an
underground pipe system which allows the field to be mechanically drained by a
vacuum system when necessary or to add water during dry seasons. It also includes
removing existing artificial turf, asphalt, stone, and modifications to the utilities.
Several Regents pointed out that this would be a good opportunity to lower the
level of the playing field, and urged that every effort be made to include this in the turf
replacement project. Following some additional comments, Regent Brown moved
proceeding with the project as described. Regent Roach seconded the motion, and it
was adopted unanimously.
Michigan Stadium Restoration
Mr. Weidenbach described a planned ten-year restoration program for
Michigan Stadium to assure the continued structural integrity of the stadium. On a
motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents unanimously
approved proceeding with Phase I of the restoration, as described in the Regents
communication.
University of Michigan-Flint Water Street Pavilion Renovation Project
Regent Smith moved, seconded by Regent Power, an increase of $700,000 for
the Water Street Pavilion renovation project, to be used to provide furnishings and
floor coverings not previously planned for in the original budget. This would increase
the project budget to $3.2 million.
Regent Power urged that some of the space be reserved to take advantage of
currently unforeseen opportunities that may arise for use of this structure in the
future. Regent Roach cautioned that construction commitments should remain
flexible in the event that a downturn in the economy would lead to some of the
funding not being received.
The vote was then taken, and the motion was approved unanimously.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property
(L. Steven Stemberg)
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Power, all seven Regents
present unanimously approved reassignment of the University's ownership of the
intellectual property "Child Care Decision Support System" to the inventor, L. Steven
Sternberg. Because Mr. Sternberg is also a University employee, this action is subject
to the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in conformance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of
Michigan and L. Steven Sternberg.
2.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby
incorporated by reference in this action.


-107 -



November Meeting, 1990


Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property (John
Shewchun, Yi Chen, Jeffrey Scott Holder)
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved reassignment of the University's ownership of the intellectual
property "High Temperature Superconducting Thin Films on GaAs with Alumina or a
Homolog as a Buffer Layer" to the inventors, John Shewchun, Yi Chen, and Jeffrey
Scott Holder. Because Mssrs. Shewchun, Chen, and Holder are also University
employees, this action is subject to the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in conformance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of
Michigan and John Shewchun, Yi Chen, and Jeffrey Scott Holder.
2.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby
incorporated by reference in this action.
Revisions of Regents' Bylaws Sections 12.011, 12.012, 12.013, 12.03, and 12.05 (Change
in Name of Director of the University Library to Dean of the University Library)
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved revisions to Regents Bylaws Sections 12.011, 12.012, 12.03, and
12.05. In each case, the revisions consist of replacement of the words "Director of the
University Library" with the words "Dean of the University Library".
Membership in the Michigan Aquatic Sciences Consortium
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Brown seconded, membership in the
Michigan Aquatic Sciences Consortium. The motion was approved unanimously.
There followed a brief recess, after which the meeting reconvened for Public
Comments.
Public Comments
None of the speakers who had signed up to speak at Public Comments were
present.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on December 20-21, 1990. Regents' transportation, accommodation,
telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of October 1990 totalled $1,481.
Richard L. ennedy, Secrety


-108 -



DECEMBER MEETING, 1990


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 20, 1990
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Waters.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Wilson. Regent Varner was absent.
Presidential Salary
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order. Regent Brown moved that
the president's salary be increased by five per cent retroactive to September 1, 1990,
which is equivalent to the average increase for faculty for 1990. He noted that this
increase was tempered by the current financial difficulties facing the University, and
should be seen as a strong vote of confidence in President Duderstadt's leadership.
Regent Baker seconded the motion, commenting that the modest increase reflects the
Regents' concern for the economic well-being of the state and the University. The
motion was approved unanimously.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on December 20, 1990, at 3:30 P.M., in the Regents' Room, for the
purpose of consulting with the Board's attorney regarding trial or settlement
strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Advent Realty Fund II;
International Equity Investment
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Womack to present two
action requests having to do with investments. Vice President Womack noted
that the Advent Realty Fund II investment had been discussed with the
University's investment advisory committee. He then introduced the
University's investment advisor, Mr. David Thurston, to present the requests
and respond to questions.
Mr. Thurston distributed a handout prepared by Cambridge Associates
containing a discussion of endowment investment strategies and international
equity investing. He noted that the intention is to have 10 per cent of the
University's portfolio invested in foreign equity. Mr. Thurston reviewed the
information contained in the handout and responded to questions from the
Regents about foreign investments. He noted that the primary reason for
investing in foreign equity is to minimize the risk in high equity exposure.
Investing overseas also has higher


-109 -



December Meeting, 1990


diversification value than is the case with dividing the funds among different
domestic managers.
Regent Baker requested a comparison of the returns of the South Africa
free investments against another measure, such as the Standard & Poors index.
Regent Power commented that it would be helpful to track the custodial costs of
investments over time and to convey the Regents' concerns about these costs to
the endowment managers.
Regent Smith observed that some of the foreign investments would be in
venture capital, which the investment advisory committee had advised against.
Mr. Thurston responded that the idea is to allow the Common Fund the
freedom to invest a small percentage of the portfolio in private placements at a
future time when market valuations are attractive. The maximum amount
allowed under the Regents' guidelines would be about one-tenth of one per cent
of the entire endowment. Vice President Womack pointed out that the four
managers chosen by the Common Fund to manage this portfolio have
substantial experience in foreign investments, and that the private placements
are just one vehicle that the managers could utilize.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Mr. Thurston said that the
expectation is that foreign investments would yield two per cent per year more
than domestic investments.
Following further discussion about these and other aspects of the
University's investment strategies, the president called for the vote on the two
action items.
Advent Realty Fund II. Regent Roach moved that $5 million of the
University Endowment Fund be committed to the Advent Realty Fund II.
Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously, with
Regent Smith noting that her vote was based on the advice and
recommendation received from Mr. A. Alfred Taubman and the investment
advisory committee.
International Equity Investment. Regent Power moved that 1) 10 per
cent be the target allocation for international equity investments in the
University Endowment Fund, with an allowable range of 0 per cent to 15 per
cent; 2) the Common Fund for South Africa Free International Equity
Investments be approved; and 3) the international equity investment be phased
in over the next two years. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was
adopted, with Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Waters voting
in favor, and Regent Smith opposed. Regent Smith noted that her opposition
was based on the investment advisory committee's advice against venture capital
investments at this time.
State Budget Situation
In response to a request from the president, Vice President Kennedy
commented on the status of the state's expenditure reduction program. He
noted that the education budgets had been spared the drastic cuts of the first
round of reductions, although higher education did receive a one per cent


-110 -



December Meeting, 1990


reduction. However, he warned that the state's budget deficit is so severe that
further reductions will likely be made by February, which will directly impact
the University's appropriation.
Provost Whitaker described efforts being undertaken by his office to plan
for the effects of cuts in state appropriation on the University's General Fund.
Three groups on campus had been asked to make recommendations on how to
respond to such a situation, and an advisory group, the Provost's Advisory
Committee on Excellence (PACE), had been formed to suggest where
reductions might occur in the short run and to offer other procedural
suggestions about dealing with reduced revenues over the long term.
Regent Roach observed that in the face of major revenue reductions, cuts
in base budgets may become necessary. He also noted the Board's past
successful practice of making selective cuts, as opposed to across the board or by
attrition. Provost Whitaker confirmed that the intent would be to follow this
pattern. Regent Power pointed out that dealing with budget difficulties is a long
term issue, and that central to this is learning how to manage costs.
Minority Scholarships
Regent Power asked how the University has reacted to the recent
announcement by a Department of Education official questioning the legality of
scholarships designated for minorities. The president responded that University
officials and the Michigan congressional delegation have been heavily involved
in the effort to clarify the ramifications of the announcement. He noted that the
University's stance, and that of other higher education institutions, is to honor
its commitments and make no change in direction.
Following further discussion of this issue, President Duderstadt turned to
Vice President Kelly to present the annual report on research. He noted that
Vice President Kelly had recently received the 1991 Penrose Gold Medal Award
of the Society of Economic Geologists.
Annual Report on Research
Vice President Kelly gave a slide presentation to accompany the 1990
Research Report that had been distributed with the Regents' agendas. He
noted that total research expenditures for FY 1990 exceeded $286 million, an
increase of 8.16 per cent over the previous fiscal year. However, in the face of
uncertain conditions in the national research environment, expenditures from
federal sources increased by only 1.0 per cent. Although fiscal constraints and
uncertainties in the national research environment have made it difficult to
sustain a comprehensive research program with federal funds, he observed that
University researchers did remarkably well in a difficult budget year.
Vice President Kelly reviewed research expenditures by sponsor group, by
major unit, and by the number and amount of awards received, and discussed
other aspects of the research environment nationally and at the University of
Michigan. Following the presentation, the president called on Vice President
Womack to present the next item on the agenda.


-111 -



December Meeting, 1990


Lowering of Michigan Stadium Playing Field
Vice President Womack introduced Mr. Jack Weidenbach, interim
director of athletics, who described what additional measures need to be taken
in conjunction with installation of Prescription Athletic Turf to lower the playing
field in order to improve the sight lines at Michigan Stadium. These measures
include permanently lowering the existing ground water table by mechanical
means; relocating the present 36-inch city storm sewer that runs under the
50-yard line; and addressing access from the tunnel entrance as well as from the
stands.
Mr. Weidenbach and Mr. Jagdish Janveja, director of facilities planning
and design at Plant Extension, responded to questions from the Regents about
details of the proposed project. Following some discussion, Regent Baker
moved to increase the scope of the previously approved Prescription Athletic
Turf installation project to accomplish the additional work as described in the
Regents communication. Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously. Vice President Womack commended Mr. Janveja for
his work on this project.
Financing for UM     Hospitals' Capital Projects, Renovation Projects, and
Equipment Replacement
Regent Nielsen moved adoption of a resolution authorizing the issuance,
sale, and delivery of Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1990 and the execution
and delivery of the Trust Indenture, Bond Purchase Agreement, and Official
Statement and other documentation related to the revenue bonds. Regent
Brown seconded the motion.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Vice President Womack
noted that the proceeds will be used to replace expenses incurred from internal
sources for the Maternal and Child Health Center. Following further
discussion, the vote was taken and the motion, including the following
resolution, was approved unanimously.
Resolution of the Regents of the University of Michigan
Authorizing the Issuance and Delivery of Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1990
and Providing for Other Matters Relating Thereto
WHEREAS the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Regents") constitute a constitutional
body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, as
amended, with the general supervision of the University of Michigan (the "University") and the control
and direction of all expenditures from the University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Regents entered into a master indenture (the "Master Indenture") dated as of
May 1, 1986 with Comerica Bank-Detroit as Master Trustee (the "Master Trustee"), pursuant to which
revenue obligations for the benefit of the University of Michigan Hospitals (the "Hospital") have been and
will be issued and secured; and
WHEREAS in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently control and
direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Regents determines it is necessary and desirable to
authorize the issuance pursuant to the terms of the Master Indenture of a series of revenue obligations to
be designated "Hospital Revenue Bonds, Series 1990" (the "Bonds"), in the aggregate principal amount of
Sixty Five Million One Hundred Fifteen Thousand Dollars ($65,115,000.00) to provide Tunds to pay part of
the cost of the acquisition and construction of capital projects and equipment for the Hospital (collectively
the "Project"), and to pay certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance and sale of the Bonds; and


-112 -



December Meeting, 1990


WHEREAS, a form of a trust indenture (the "Series Indenture") dated as of December 15, 1990,
to be entered into by and between the Regents and NBD Bank NA., Detroit, Michigan (the "Series
Trustee"), pursuant to which the Bonds, as a series of revenue obligations under the Master Indenture,
will be issued and secured, has been presented to the Regents; and
WHEREAS, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Cain Brothers, Shattuck & Company
Incorporated (the "Underwriters") have undertaken market analysis with respect to the sale of the Bonds
and have presented an offer to purchase the Bonds pursuant to a bond purchase agreement (the "Bond
Purchase Agreement") setting forth the terms and conditions on which the Underwriters will purchase the
Bonds and the interest rates and purchase price thereof.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1. The Regents hereby authorize the issuance execution and delivery of the Bonds of the Regents
to be designated HOSPITAL REVENUE BONDS SERIES 1990 in the aggregate principal amount of
$65,115,000, to be dated as of December 15, 1990, for the purpose of providing funcds to pay part of the
cost of the Project, and to pay costs incidental to the issuance of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be term
Bonds maturing on December 1, in the years 2021 and 2024, with mandatory redemption requirements as
set forth in the Series Indenture. The Bonds shall bear interest as provided m the Bond Purchase
Agreement and the Series Indenture. The Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity in
accordance with the terms of the Bond Purchase Agreement and the Series Indenture. The Bonds shall
be issued in fully registered form in denominations set forth in the Series Indenture shall be payable as to
principal and interest in the manner, shall be subject to transfer and exchange, and shall be executed and
authenticated, all as provided in the Series Indenture. The Bonds shall be sold to the Underwriters
pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement at the price specified therein.
2. The bonds shall be limited and not general obligations of the University payable from Hospital
Gross Revenues ( as defined in the Master Indenture) and equally ratably secured with all other Revenue
Obligations (as defined in the Master Indenture) by an irrevocable pledge of the Pledged Hospital Gross
Revenues (as defined in the Master Indenture) and funds from time to time on deposit in the funds
created pursuant to the Master Indenture and shall be additionally secured by the funds from time to time
on deposit in the funds created pursuant to the Series Indenture.
Except as provided in the Master Indenture, the Series Indenture, no recourse shall be had for the
payment of the principal amount of or interest or premium on the Bonds or any claim based thereon
against the State of Michigan, the Regents or any officer or agent thereof or of the University, as
individuals either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Bonds and interest with respect thereto become a
lien on or be secured by anyproperty, real, personal or mixed of the State of Michigan, the Regents, or
the University other than the Pledged Hospital Gross Revenues and the moneys from time to time on
deposit in the tunds established by the Master Indenture and the Series Indenture.
3. The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable from
Hospital Gross Revenues or secured on a parity basis with the Bonds from the P edged Hospital Gross
Revenues, upon compliance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Master Indenture.
4. The form of the Series Indenture, on file with the Secretary of the University is hereby
approved. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Controller of the University or either
o them, and the Investment Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed, in the name and
on behalf of the Regents and as its corporate act and deed, to execute the Series Indenture, in the form
approved, with such changes and modifications not inconsistent with the terms hereof as they shall
approve, which approval shall be conclusively evidenced by their execution of the Series Indenture.
5. The form of the Bond Purchase Agreement on file with the Secretary of the University is
hereby approved. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the University is
hereby authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Regents and its corporate act and deed,
to execute and deliver the Bond Purchase Agreement in the form so approved.
6. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the University is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed in the name and on behalf of the Regents, and as its corporate act
and deed, to execute the Bonds by placing their facsimile signatures thereon, and to deliver the Bonds to
the Underwriters in exchange for the purchase price thereof, as provided in the Bond Purchase
Agreement.
7. The preparation of the Preliminary Official Statement with respect to the Bonds and the
circulation and use by the Underwriters of the Preliminary Official Statement in accordance with
applicable law in connection with the offering and sale of the Bonds is hereby approved, ratified and
confirmed. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the University is hereby
authorized to prepare or arrange to be prepared and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Regents the


-113 -



December Meeting, 1990


Official Statement with respect to the Bonds and such supplements or amendments to the Official
Statement as may be required pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement. The Underwriters are hereby
authorized to circulate and use the Official Statement, as the same may be so supplemented or amended,
in accordance with applicable law, in the offering and sale of the Bonds and as required by law.
8. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller Investment Officer,
representatives of the General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are hereby
authorized to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and documents for and
on behalf of the Regents or the University required by this Resolution, the Master Indenture, the Series
Indenture or the Bond Purchase Agreement, or necessary expedient and proper in connection with the
issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds, all as contemplated hereby.
9. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the University in conflict
herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Medical Science Research Building III
Vice President Womack reported that this is a request to change the scope of
the Medical Science Research Building III (MSRB III) that the Regents had approved
at the July 1990 meeting. He introduced Mr. Douglas Hanna, assistant director of
capital programs, who used schematic drawings to describe the revised facility design.
The revised plan incorporates ten floors of 11,300 net square feet each, rather than the
originally approved nine floors of 10,000 net square feet each, and includes a below
ground space beneath the courtyard to house animal quarters. The cost estimate is
revised from $43 million to $53 million. The increased scope of the project insures
maximum utilization of the site, and provides an opportunity to construct additional
research space.
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Smith seconded, approval of the design of
the MSRB III with the revised scope encompassing ten occupied floors and the second
level space beneath the courtyard. Vice President Womack and Mr. Hanna responded
to questions from the Regents about the facility and the site. Regent Baker expressed
concern about the impact of the new facility on parking availability on the medical
campus. Vice President Womack said that existing parking structures would be
utilized.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Resolution in Honor of Regent Roach
Noting that this meeting marked the completion of Regent Roach's two terms as
Regent, President Duderstadt called on Regent Brown, who read the following
resolution:
The Regents of the University of Michigan extend their deep appreciation
and highest commendation to colleague and friend, Thomas A. Roach, as he
concludes sixteen years of dedicated service as a member of the Board of
Regents.
The University of Michigan has no truer son than Tom Roach. He came
to Ann Arbor as an undergraduate, received his Bachelor's and Juris Doctor
degrees in 1951 and 1953, respectively, played in the Marching Band, and was
honored many times for his achievements as a student. Then it was on to the


-114 -



December Meeting, 1990


Coast Guard for three years of active duty in Seattle before returning to Detroit
to begin a distinguished legal career that continues today.
He surely never lacked for things to do. Long active with the Boy Scouts
of America organization, Tom also managed to be constantly involved with the
Democratic Party at the local, state, and national levels, as well as the
University of Michigan Alumni Association, the Band Alumni Association, the
Detroit Alumni Club, and the Michigan Technology Council More recently,
he was chair of Annual Giving of the Campaign for Michigan, and has signed
on as Annual Giving Co-Chair of the Campaign for Michigan II.
In 1953, he and Sally Bennett were married, and she has matched his
record of service to the University step for step. In a word, Tom and Sally
Roach have become a part of the very fabric of the University in a way that few
people ever achieve.
So the Regents now salute their friend, Tom Roach, not only for sixteen
years of service as a Regent, but indeed for his life-long commitment to this
University. And, lest he think that he is finished with his efforts for the
University, the Regents now entitle Thomas A. Roach Regent Emeritus of the
University of Michigan, and charge him to continue his noble work on its
behalf.
Regent Baker seconded the motion, and it was approved by acclamation.
There followed a round of applause. It was decided to defer further comments about
Regent Roach's service until the following day.
At 3:30 P.M. the meeting participants met in closed session, pursuant to the
earlier resolution.
Public Comments
Following the closed session, the meeting resumed in the Anderson Room of
the Michigan Union for Public Comments.
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Nick Mavrick, student, on University decision-making; David Rosenberg,
citizen, on the treatment of patients with AIDS at the University of Michigan
Hospitals; and Martin Soave, citizen, and Lisa Stillwell, citizen, on AIDS.
Friday, December 21, 1990
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Waters.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as was Chancellor
Wilson. Regent Varner and Chancellor Jones were absent.


-115 -



December Meeting, 1990


Faculty Presentation to the Regents
The president called the meeting to order, and noted that two professors were
present to describe their research in the Ultrafast Science Laboratory. Professor
Walter Debler introduced Professors Gerard Mourou and Steve Williamson.
Professor Mourou used overhead transparencies to aid in describing his research on
short optical pulses and their applications in high-speed electronics. Professor
Williamson then showed a videotape, "Light in Flight", taken using holographic
techniques.
Following the faculty presentation, the president turned to consideration of the
regular business agenda.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of November 15, 1990.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. The Regents also received
reports from Vice President Kelly on Projects Established-Research and Other
Academic Activities and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects.
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted a Summary Report, Detail Report, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of November 1990. The following
gifts were accepted with thanks and in accordance with their terms and conditions:
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  14,563
Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago Illinois
for research i the College of Pharmacy                                   15,000
Eileen A. Adams, Perrysburg, Ohio
for orthodontics support in the School of Dentistry in memory of Dr. James R. Adams  10,000
Air Products Foundation, Allentown, Pennsylvania
for support of the College of Engineering                                5,500
Aluminum Company of America, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Engineering                               15,000
Amax Foundation, Inc., Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the College of Enineering                                13,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlant, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Pharmacy         105,909
American Diabetes Association, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                       8,844
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                      40,774
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, and the School of Public Health     85,251
Amoco Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Scholarship in the College of Engineering, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,000


-116 -



December Meeting, 1990
Margery B. Angst, Sanibel Island, Florida
500 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock; to participate in the
University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit of
the Department of Athletics                                                37,875
Anjoy Marketing Consultants Inc., Ann Arbor
for the D. Maynard Phelps Fund in the School of Business Administration     5,475
Anonymous Donor
for the Wade H. McCree Professorship and the Oscar W. Baker, Sr., Scholarship
in the Law School                                                         150,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research m the Medical School                                          17,583
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                     17,970
Atlantic Richfield Company, Los Angeles, California
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration         5,000
BP America Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration        20,000
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for unrestricted capital support of the College of Engeering
and for the Baldwin Astronomy Fellowship m the College offLiterature, Science,
and the Arts                                                               30,000
Ailene M. Yeo Bardsley, Anderson, Indiana
Cash gift to participate in the University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund,
for the ultimate benefit of the School of Business Administration, and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                               10,000
Biogen, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for research fellowships in the Medical School                             60,000
Bloomfield Township Fire Department, Bloomfield Hills
for burn research and education in the Medical School                      18,000
Esther Pease Breeze Estate
for support of the Alumni Association                                      64,086
Floydene B. Brownlee, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                             5,000
Buesser Buesser, Snyder & Blank Bloomfield Hills
for the Wade H. McCree Professorship in the Law School, in honor of
Frederick G. Buesser, Jr.                                                  10,000
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the College of Engineering, in memory of Robert M. Caddell             10,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                         19,164
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Timothy W. and Sandra Colins, Birmingham
for the India Site Seminar in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                     5,075
Harold Cooper, Beverly Hills, California
for the Harold Cooper Scholarship in the School of Music                   10,000
Margaret E. Crowe Estate
for the President's Fund                                                   20,000
Gilbert A. Currie, Midland
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics             50,000
Deloitte & Touche Foundation, Hermitage, Tennessee
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 8,362
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                         12,500
George H. Deuble Foundation Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Loan Fund in the School of Business Administration,
and the George H. Deuble Scholarship in the Law School                     10,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts
for the Digital Equipment Corporation Faculty Fund in the College of Engineering  25,000
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics             14,500
Domino's Pizza Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering                    15,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for student aid and other support in the College of Engineering             5,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for polymer research in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  23,088


-117 -



December Meeting, 1990


Richard Earhart, Mount Dora, Florida
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering                     50,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for document manipulation research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn   10,000
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for the Solar Car Pro ect in the College of Engineering                      5,000
Exxon Chemical Americas, Houston Texas
for polymer research in the College of Engineering                          42,500
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for research and training in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  8,375
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Law School and in the Institute for Social Research     30,059
Henry Ford II Fund, Dearborn
for dining room renovation in the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the
University of Michigan-Dearborn                                            103,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Public Health, and
the College of Engineering                                                 100,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for scholarships in the College of Engineering                               6,265
Ford Motor Company-Chemical Analysis and Research Services, Dearborn
for groundwater research in the College of Engineering                      30,000
Richard J. Fox Foundation Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for minority student aid in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  5,800
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship                             7,532
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for discretionary support in the College of Engineering                     88,249
Roland T. Gerhart Trust, Novi
for the Industrial Development Fund in the College of Engineering           25,000
Great Lakes Bancorp Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                                7,500
Kalvin Mo Grove, Northbrook Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              40,000
Mr. and Mrs. William J. Halliday Jr. Grand Rapids
for the William and Lois Halfiday Scholarship in the Law School             20,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         115,660
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School                                          22,500
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto California
for research in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  25,150
Celeste C. Hourani Estate
for the George F. and Celeste Hourani Memorial Scholarship/Lectureship Fund
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                         431,391
Huntington's Disease Society of America, N'ew York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          15,000
Charles S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
for student aid and the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering      9,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Computer Industrial Partners Program in the College of Engineering   5,000
International Business Machines Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
for fellowships in the College of Engineering                               22,807
Mr. and Mrs. Verne G. Istock, Bloomfield Hills
359 shares of NBD Bancorp common stock; for the CA.M.P. Building Program in
the Alumni Association                                                      11,309
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry      11,200
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Detroit
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                50,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          10,550


-118 -



December Meeting, 1990


W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Social Work                                    22,825
Mr. and Mrs. Albert J. Koegel, Flint
for the Library/Learning Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint  10,000
Herbert Kohn, Kansas City Missouri
for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School  5,000
Sylvia M. Kosciolek, Grand Blanc
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                                5,000
Richard P. Kughn, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               25,000
Mallery Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Library/Learning Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint  50,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             13,750
Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit, Detroit
for the University Musical Society, and for Employee Matching Gifts           7,700
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology      17,500
Marko Materials Inc., North Billerica, Massachusetts
for the Marko Materials Fund in the College of Engineering                    5,000
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business Administration  15,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration    9,000
Miles, Inc., Pharmaceutical Division, West Haven, Connecticut
for pharmacology-cardiovascular research in the Medical School               12,000
Herman Miller, Inc., Zeeland
for research in the College of Engineering                                   20,000
Monolithic Sensors, Inc., Rolling Meadows, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering                                   10,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation Kalamazoo
for the Clements Library, and for the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     105,000
Monsanto Company, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Monsanto Fellowship in the College of Engineering, and for research in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                              7,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the University of Michigan Transportation
_    Research Institute..                                                       35,000
Motorola, Ifc., Sctaumourg, Illinois
for the Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business Administration 15,000
National Organization for Hearing Research, Wayne, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           31,649
Clifford T. Nelson Estate
for the Clifford T. Nelson Fund in the School of Dentistry                  152,550
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
for unrestricted capital support of the School of Business Administration    10,000
Irving Pahlow Trust
for the Frank C. Pahlow and Irving Pahlow Scholarship in the College of Engineering  167,083
Panasonic Industrial Company, Secaucus, New Jersey
for the Solar Car Project in the College of Engineering                      10,000
Terrence G. Perris, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Potter Stewart Memorial Scholarship and other support in the Law School  10,000
Pillsbury Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota
Tor the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           7,000
Manard E. Pont Castro Valley, California
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School      11,500
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for the Price Waterhouse Professorship in the School of Business Administration,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                              33,000
Gall Richardson, San Diego, California
for the Stearns Collections of Musical Instruments in the School of Music     5,000
Rockwell International Corporation Trust Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
for the Rockwell International Fellowship and other support in the College of
Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts                                 23,341
Jane E. Rollman, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Rollman Scholarship Endowment in the School of Information and
Library Studies                                                              25,000


-119 -



December Meeting, 1990


Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Runck, Green Valley, Arizona
200 shares of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation common stock; for unrestricted
support of the School of Business Administration                             7,075
Damon Runyon-Walter Winchell Cancer Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and in the
Biophysics Research Division                                                 5,595
Dr. and Mrs. R. Perry Ryan, Flint
for the Library/Learing Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint  15,000
Schering Corporation, Kenilworth, New Jersey
Tor pharmacology-cardiovascular research in the Medical School               5,000
Marie Schlesinger Trust
for capital support of the College of Engineering, and for the University
Musical Society                                                             12,500
Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Charles W. Seabury Fund in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning  20,000
Stuart E. Sheill, Algonac
for the Alice E. and Lorna L. Ketcham Memorial Scholarship Endowment in
the School of Music                                                        100,000
Simmons Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Swimming and Diving Facility the Sports Service Building, and
scholarships in the Department of Athetics                                   5,500
Simplex Time Recorder Company, Livonia
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              15,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Social Work                                  243,000
Rollin M. Smith Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       5,436
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          35,090
Spence Brothers, Saginaw
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Sycamore Fund, Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration, and for the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics                              6,500
Tennessee Eastman Company, Kingsport, Tennessee
for the Macromolecular Research Center                                       5,000
Texel Land Company, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
Joel L. Tonkin Trust, Leawood, Kansas
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   5,000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan League Development Fund                                    10,000
USX Foundation, Inc. Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  6,850
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., Englewood Cliffs New Jersey
for the Associates Program and student aid in the School of Business
Administration                                                              17,500
Union Pacific Foundation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for student aid in the School of Business Administration                     5,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           6,083
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Lucile B. Conger Group, Ann Arbor
for alumnae scholarships in the Alumni Association                           7,750
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Birmingham Bloomfield Hills
for the Birmingham Alumnae Scholarship in tie Alumni Association             5,000
Virginia H. Van Hook San Francisco, California
400 shares of Coca-Cola Company and 200 shares of Anheuser Busch Company
common stocks; for junior faculty research in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                24,900
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Northbrook, Illinois
4,350 shares of Walgreen common stock; for the Walgreen-Dean's Discretionary
Fund in the College of Pharmacy                                            202,819
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy          14,000
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarships in the School of Education, and the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                        15,104
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Westinghouse Engineering Development Fund in the College of
Engineering                                                                 30,000


-120 -



December Meeting, 1990


Wetlands Research, Inc., Chicago Illinois
for water research in the College of Engineering                             20,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Gilbert R. and Ruth T. Whitaker, Ann Arbor
for the Gilbert R. and Ruth T. Whitaker Doctoral Fellowship in the School of
Business Administration                                                       7,000
Woodworth-Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,000
Wyandotte Firefighters Local 356 of International Association of Firefighters, Wyandotte
for burn research and education in the Medical School                         5,675
Wyeth Ayerst, American Home Products Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for cancer research in the Medical School                                    12,500
Yamanouchi Pharmaceutical Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for the Yamanouchi Research Promotion Award in the Medical School            22,980
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
General Motors Research Laboratories, Warren
miscellaneous chemicals; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of Natural
Sciences
General Motors Technical Center, Warren
a research spindle with stand and chiller unit; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
Manufacturmg Systems Engineering Laboratory
IBM National Support Center, Atlanta Georga
software and hardware for the IBM "Speech Viewer" and the IBM 'Phone Communicator;" for the
Communicative Disorders Clinic
Alan H. Jones, Ann Arbor
3327 copies of Teacher Education Quarterly and Educational Foundations; for the School of
Education
Charles R. Sligh Clocks, Holland, and University of Michigan Engineering Faculty, Ann Arbor
a grandfather's clock was accepted as a supplement to the approved renovation project in the
President's House; a portion was given by the College of Engineering faculty and the remainder
was gifted by Mr. Sligh
Personnel Actions
Regent Baker requested that there be a discussion during the coming year of
the issue of "political correctness" on campus and whether academic freedom and
freedom of speech are being harmed. Regent Power concurred that this would be a
very useful topic of discussion.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Francis S. Collins, M.D., Ph.D., from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine with tenure and Associate
Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure
Kevin K. Tremper, M.D., Ph.D., Professor of Anesthesiology and Chair of the Department of
Anesthesiology
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Celeste Brusati, Ph.D  Associate Professor of History of Art
Philip N. Cascade, M.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, April 1, 1991


-121 -



December Meeting, 1990


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Alton Becker, Professor Emeritus of Linguistics reappointed to active status winter term January 6, 1991
Brian A. Burt, Professor of Dental Public Health with tenure, School of Pubic Health, Clinical
Professor I of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry, and Chair of the Department of
Community Health Programs, School of Public Health, reappointed Chair of the Department of
Community Health Programs, School of Public Health, for a three-and-one-half-year period
William M. Cave, Professor Emeritus of Education reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Lynn A. Conway, Associate Dean, College of Engineering, and Professor of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science, with tenure, reappointed Associate Dean, College of Engineering, tor a
two-year period
Marjorie Levy Dean, School of Art, and Professor of Art, with tenure, appointment extended as Dean,
Schoof of Art for an eight-month period
John Mersereau, Jr., ProfessorEmeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures, reappointed to active status,
winter term, January 6, 1991
Alfred G. Meyer, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, reappointed to active status, winter term,
January 6, 1991
George Piranian, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to active status, for a nine-month
period, September 1, 1990
Nathan T. Whitman, Professor Emeritus of History of Art, reappointed to active status, winter term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Richard W. Andrews, from Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, to Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, School of Business
Administration, and Associate Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, for a three-year period
Bruce S. Elenbogen, from Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn,
to Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics with tenure, UM-Dearborn, and Associate
Professor of Computer and Information Science, without tenure, UM-Dearborn, for an
eight-month period, September 1, 1990
George I.addad, from Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science with tenure, to
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, ana Chair of the
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, for a three-year period
James S. House from Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Research Scientist, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, Research Scientist,
Epidemiolog, School of Public Health and Faculty Associate, Institute of Gerontology, to
Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Research
Scientist, Survey Research Center Institute for Social Research, Research Scientist
Epidemiology, School of Public H]ealth, Faculty Associate, Institute of Gerontology, and Director
of the Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research, for a five-year period
Bruce R. Maxim, from Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, to
Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, and Associate
Professor of Computer and Information Science, without tenure, UM-Dearborn, for an
eight-month period September 1,1990
John H. Romani, from Professor of Public Health Administration, with tenure, to Professor of Public
Health Administration, with tenure, and Interim Chair of the Department of Public Health Policy
and Administration, for a one-year period
The following committee appointments were approved:
Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc.
Elsa K. Cole for a three-year period, ending October 31, 1993, vice Harlan Hatcher, term expired
Jeffrey J. Colton, for a three-year period ending October 31, 1993, to succeed himself
Erik Fredricksen, for a three-year period, ending October 31, 1993, vice Allan F. Smith, term expired
Gerald D. Jernigan, for a one-year period, ending October 31, 1991, vice Arnold P. Aronson, resigned
Ruth Whitaker Tor a three-year period, ending October 31 1993 to succeed herself
Phyllis B. Wright, for a three-year period, ending October 31, 1993, to succeed herself
Institute of Gerontology Executive Committee
Albert C. Cain, for a one-year period, ending December 31, 1991, to succeed himself
Minor J. Coon, for a three-year period, ending December 31, 1993, vice Charles F. Yocum, term expired


-122 -



December Meeting, 1990


Irwin J. Goldstein, for a two-year period, ending December 31, 1992, vice Rhetaugh G. Dumas, term
expired
Albert I. Hermalin, for a three-year period, ending December 31, 1993, to succeed himself
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Dennis F. Ellis for the winter term, 1991, to supplement the committee during promotion and tenure
deliberations
C. Peethambaran Kartha, for the winter term, 1991, to supplement the committee during promotion and
tenure deliberations
William Davidson Visiting Professor of Business Administration. The Regents
approved the appointment of Donald R. Lehmann as the William Davidson Visiting
Professor of Business Administration for a six-month period, effective January 1, 1991.
Robert J. Hiller Professor of Engineering. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Robert J. Hiller Professor of Engineering, effective January 1,
1991.
Exception to University policy regarding retirement furloughs. The Regents
approved an exception to the retirement furlough policy that would allow Professor
Thomas M. Donahue to postpone his retirement furlough until the University year
beginning September 1, 1992, and his subsequent retirement until May 31, 1993.
Change in name of Department of Civil Engineering. The Regents approved a
change in the name of the Department of Civil Engineering to the Department of
Civil and Environmental Engineering, effective January 1, 1991.
Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor of Law. The Regents approved the
appointment of Ernst-Joachim Mestmacker as the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor
of Law for the winter term, 1991.
James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence. The Regents
approved the appointment of Charles Taylor as the James B. and Grace J. Nelson
Philosopher-in-Residence for the period February 18 through February 22, 1991.
Ralph Waldo Gerard Professorship of Neurosciences. The Regents approved
the establishment of the Ralph Waldo Gerard Professorship of Neurosciences in the
Department of Psychiatry in the Medical School, effective December 21, 1990.
Associate Vice President for Student Services. The Regents approved the
appointment of Eunice Royster Harper as the Associate Vice President for Student
Services for a five-year period, effective January 1, 1991.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Dentistr
Dina H. Cocco, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, November 5, 1990
Michael J. Guest, Jr., D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, November 1, 1990
Joseph M. Heidelberger, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry November 1, 1990
Wesley R. Ichesco, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, October 1, 1990
Michael B. Lindemann, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, October 1, 1990
-123 -



December Meeting, 1990


Law School
Theodore M. Shaw, J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, November 15, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Assen L. Dontchev, Ph.D., Dr.Sc Lecturer in Mathematics, November 15, 1990
Rudolf Mrazek, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, September 1 1990
Peter D. Robinson, D.Phil., Lecturer in Mathematics, November 15, 1990
Kenji Satake, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences, November 11, 1990
Medical School
John D. E. Barks, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, November 1, 1990
Mary D. Lupinetti, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, November 1, 1990
Gabriel Nunez, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, January 1, 1991
School of Social Work
Daniel G. Saunders, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Social Work, January 1, 1991
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
UM-Dearbom Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
Louis Y. Tsui, from Assistant Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering to Assistant
Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering and Assistant Professor of Computer and
Information Science
David H. H. Yoon, from Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Statistics to Assistant Professor
of Mathematics and Statistics and Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
College of Engineerinn
War D.Getty, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1991
Law School
Bruno E. Simma, Professor of Law, leave without salary, September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
Collee of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Morris Bornstein, Professor of Economics, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 1 -December 31, 1990, and retirement furlough, September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
Medical School
Kate F. Barald Associate Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, December 23, 1990 -December 22, 1991
Elizabeth A. Garofalo Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Assistant
Professor of Neurology, extended sick leave, October 15, 1990-January 28, 1991
Douglas M. Jewett, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, personal leave, January 1 -December 31, 1991
Kathleen R. Rosen, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, personal leave, October 8-December 7, 1990
School of Music
William P. Malm, Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 1991
Theodore Morrison, Associate Professor of Conducting, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1991
Glenn E. Watkins, Earl V. Moore Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31 1991
Leigh A. Woods, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
School of Social Work
Loiis A.- Ferman, Professor of Social Work, personal leave, May 1-June 30, 1991


-124 -



December Meeting, 1990


UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Ricardo Alfaro, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
M. Kent Jenings, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without salary, changed to
January 1-May 15, 1991 (previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1991)
Michelle J. White, Professor of Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave changed to September 1 -December 31, 1990 (previously reported as September 1, 1990-May 31, 1991), and contract
leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
School of Social Work
Arman Lauffer, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, cancellation of sabbatical leave
(previously reported as January 1-May 31, 1991)
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Frank Garland, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave changed to
September 1, 1990-April 30, 1991 (previously reported as September 1-becember 31, 1990)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Wiliam N. Cooke, Associate Professor of Human Resource Management and Industrial Relations, with
tenure, December 31, 1990
College of Engineerin
CordeliaV. Hall, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
December 31, 1990
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Eshel Ben-Jacob, Assistant Professor of Physics, December 31, 1990
Medical School
Ole Baadsgaard, Assistant Professor of Dermatology, August 29, 1990
Margaret M. Burke, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, September 14, 1990
John C. Marshall Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, December 31, 1990
Tina C. Mason, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, December 31, 1990
Richard H. Tumrnage, Instructor in Surgery, October 31, 1990
Joel L. Weissfeld, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, September 19, 1990
Steven W. Werns, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, October 31, 1990
Retirement Memoirs
Regent Baker moved, Regent Brown seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, adoption of the following retirement memoirs. Regent Baker noted the
outstanding accomplishments of retiring Professor Irving Feller in helping burn
victims.
John W. Aldridge, professor of English language and literature, will retire from
active faculty status on December 31, 1990, after a highly productive career as a
teacher and scholar.
Professor Aldridge studied at the University of Chattanooga in his native
Tennessee from 1940-43. He then entered the United States Army, where from
1943-45 he served in the European theatre during World War II as an infantry
rifleman and information specialist, and was decorated with the Bronze Star medal
and five bronze combat stars. Following the war, he attended the University of


-125 -



December Meeting, 1990


California at Berkeley, where he received his B.A. degree in 1947. He then taught at a
number of colleges and universities before coming to the University of Michigan in
1964 as a visiting associate professor of English language and literature. He was
promoted to professor in 1965.
Professor Aldridge has served as chair of the editorial board of the Michigan
Quarterly Review and, for more than a decade, as chair of the Hopwood Writing
Awards Committee. He was special advisor for American Studies at the American
Embassy in Bonn, Germany, in 1972 and 1973, and among his awards is a Rockefeller
Humanities Fellowship.
A specialist in modem and contemporary fiction, Professor Aldridge has been in
the forefront of the literary life of America since just after World War II. When After
the Lost Generation appeared in 1951, it was immediately hailed as the rallying cry of a
new generation of novelists and, nearly 40 years later, it continues as a clarion call.
Norman Mailer, in his introduction to the recently re-issued text, suggests that
"Aldridge was the nearest guideline to absolute truth that the working novelist had in
my young days. I wonder if there was ever a critic who understood any better the roots
of the problems that beset the novelists of his own generation."
Professor Aldridge's most recent book, The American Novel and the Way We
Live Now (1983), demonstrates the same magisterial sense of the importance of the
enterprise, the same unbending standards and the eloquent ability to state and thus
enforce them. He has also authored two novels and a series of critiques and collected
essays, and is currently at work on a study of younger American writers as well as a
personal memoir. Professor Aldridge's critical assessment has mattered to more
writers than can be readily listed here, and his imprimatur remains of signal
consequence. In the classroom, his lectures on the contemporary novel are deservedly
famous, and he has guided the work of numerous graduate and undergraduate
students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished critic, teacher, and educator by
naming John W. Aldridge Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature.
Irving Feller, M.D., professor of surgery, retired from active faculty status on
June 30, 1990, thus ending a relationship with the University of Michigan which began
in 1946.
Born in New York City in 1925, Dr. Feller served three years in the United
States Army in Europe and the South Pacific before arriving in Ann Arbor in 1946.
He received his B.S. degree in 1949, his M.D. degree in 1954, and his M.S. degree in
surgery in 1963, all from the University of Michigan. His clinical training at this
institution included an internship from 1954-55 and a residency in surgery from
1955-59.
In 1959, Dr. Feller was appointed an instructor in anatomy and research
associate in the Department of Surgery. He was an instructor in surgery from 1960-65,
and then transferred to the clinical faculty sequence. He served as clinical assistant
professor of surgery from 1965-68, clinical associate professor of surgery from 1968-72,
and clinical professor of surgery from 1972-83. In 1983, Dr. Feller returned to the
instructional faculty sequence as professor of surgery, a title which he carried until his
retirement.
Dr. Feller has spent his entire medical career in the treatment of patients who
have severe burns. Immediately upon the completion of his residency training, he was
appointed the director of the University's first formal burn program. Since that time
he has been enormously active in expanding the University's burn care activities, and
his efforts of many years culminated on September 17, 1986, with the dedication of the
University's world-famous burn center.


-126 -



December Meeting, 1990


On the national scene, Dr. Feller was a founding member of the American Burn
Association and served as its treasurer from 1968-73. In 1968, he and four colleagues
founded the National Institute for Burn Medicine, a nonprofit national health care
organization concerned with raising money to support teaching, research, and the care
of burn patients. In 1958, Dr. Feller established the National Burn Information
Exchange, a database which eventually contained the clinical records of more than
100,000 patients, collected from approximately 130 burn centers.
The University of Michigan now enjoys a world-wide reputation for excellence
in the treatment of severely burned patients. In recognition of his countless
contributions to this reputation, the Regents of the University of Michigan now name
Irving Feller Professor Emeritus of Surgery.
Yi-Guang Lin, associate research scientist in the Center for Research on
Learning and Teaching, retired from active status on November 30, 1990, after a
productive career as a researcher and consultant to other researchers.
Dr. Lin was born in Fujian, China. He moved to Taiwan as a teenager, and
received his B.S. degree in psychology at the National Taiwan University in 1955.
Recognizing him as one of the outstanding students of his generation, the psychology
department chair, a University of Michigan graduate, encouraged him to come to the
University of Michigan for his Ph.D., which he received in 1962.
For over 30 years, Dr. Lin collaborated with Professor Wilbert J. McKeachie on
research in college teaching and learning. He has published over 48 studies having to
do with student ratings of teaching, student motivation and its interaction with
teaching methods in effecting student achievement, student anxiety, and methods of
teaching that reduce anxiety and facilitate student achievement. Most recently, he has
worked on methods of assessing cognitive structure and teaching students to develop
useful cognitive structures in learning strategies.
In addition to statistical research, from 1966-73, Dr. Lin served as a research
associate at the Computing Center, where he maintained the library of programs and
consulted with researchers in the social sciences wishing to make use of the main
frame computers in analysis of their data. From 1962-69, he was a research
psychologist and statistical consultant at the Michigan Epilepsy Center in Detroit, and
published articles related to measurements of neuropsychological and psychological
characteristics affecting the functioning of individuals with epilepsy.
From 1975 to the present, Dr. Lin has been an associate research scientist at the
Center for Research on Learning and Teaching, working as a statistical consultant and
researcher on problems in learning and teaching. Since 1986, he has also been a
senior staff member at the National Center for Research to Improve Post-Secondary
Teaching and Learning. Along with his contributions as a methodologist and data
management specialist, Dr. Lin has made significant contributions to the theoretical
and conceptual program of research in college teaching and learning which has made
the University of Michigan the preeminent center for such research.
The Regents now salute this distinguished research scientist for his dedicated
service by naming Yi-Guang Lin Associate Research Scientist Emeritus.
John Mersereau, Jr., professor of Slavic languages and literatures, will retire
from active faculty status on December 31, 1990, after 33 years of service.
A native of California, Professor Mersereau completed his A.B. degree at the
University of California at Berkeley in 1945, after which he was commissioned as an
ensign in the United States Navy. Following active duty as a gunnery officer in the
South Pacific, he returned to the University of California at Berkeley, where he
received his M.A. degree in 1950 and his Ph.D. degree in 1956. Professor Mersereau


-127 -



December Meeting, 1990


was appointed instructor at the University of Michigan in 1956. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in 1961, and professor in 1963.
Professor Mersereau served as director of the Slavic Language and Area Center
from 1961-67, and acting director of the Center for Russian and East European
Studies from 1975-76. He chaired the Department of Slavic Languages and
Literatures from 1961-71 and again from 1986-89. In 1977, after heading a committee
to review the Residential College, he himself was appointed director of that college, a
position he retained for eight years.
With colleagues Deming Brown and Horace Dewey, Professor Mersereau
helped design his department's Ph.D. program. An acknowledged authority on
Russian romanticism, he has published five books and numerous articles, book
chapters, and other contributions. He has received research grants from Rackham,
the Institute of International Education, the American Council of Learned Societies,
the Ford Foundation, and the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation, and has
presented papers at numerous national and international conferences and congresses.
Professor Mersereau also served as a member of the American Committee of Slavists
and was chair of the Joint Committee on Eastern Europe, American Council of
Learned Societies Social Science Research Council, for two of his four years on that
committee.
As a teacher, he enjoyed substantial enrollments in his courses on Russian
literature and was involved as a director or member of many dissertation committees.
With Professor Mersereau's retirement, the department is losing an effective leader,
congenial colleague, and outstanding teacher-scholar.
The Regents now salute this distinguished Slavist for his multifaceted service to
the University and his field by naming John Mersereau, Jr., Professor Emeritus of
Slavic Languages and Literatures.
Jacob M. Price, professor of history, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1990, following 35 years of service to the University of Michigan.
Following military service in World War II, Professor Price completed his A.B.,
A.M., and Ph.D. degrees at Harvard University in 1947, 1948, and 1954, respectively.
He taught at Harvard University and at Smith College before coming to the University
of Michigan as an instructor in 1956. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1958,
associate professor in 1961, and professor in 1964.
Professor Price is noted among students both for his lucid lectures on general
European history, economic history, and modern British history, and for his rigorous
training of graduate students. One of his early publications was Reading for Life:
Developing the College Student's Lifetime Reading Interest (1959, reprinted in 1968).
Professor Price has served on every major committee within the Department of
History, and served twice as its chair (1971-72, 1979-84). As chair, his fairness, respect
for others, concern for clear procedures, and openness to change contributed greatly
to sustaining the sense of community within a department and a discipline he helped
transform. Nationally, he has served on the board of editors of four scholarly journals,
held a number of positions in the American Historical Association, led the North
American Conference on British Studies and also its Midwest conference, been
prominent in the Institute of Early American History and Culture at Williamsburg,
and in the Economic History Association, which named him its president in 1987-88.
A pioneer in the application of quantitative methods to historical study,
Professor Price chaired the American Historical Association's committee on
quantitative data from 1967-74 and co-edited its important volume, Dimensions of the
Past (1972). He is best known for his work on trade between North America and
Europe in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. His careful, insightful


-128 -



December Meeting, 1990


interpretations, methodologically sophisticated and based on extraordinary archival
research in France, Britain, and the United States, have made his publications
landmarks in the understanding of capital formation, economic development, and the
role of trade on the eve of the industrial revolution. His monumental study of the
tobacco trade, France and the Chesapeake (1973), was awarded both the University of
Michigan Press Book Award and the Gilbert Chinard Prize of the Society for French
Historical Studies. Later, he put his stamp on a whole field of economic history with
his widely praised book, Capital and Credit in British Overseas Trade (1980).
Professor Price received the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1981.
He has received fellowships from a variety of organizations, and is a corresponding
member of the Massachusetts Historical Society and a fellow of the Royal Historical
Society.
The Regents now salute this distinguished historian for his dedicated service by
naming Jacob M. Price Professor Emeritus of History.
J. Reimer Wolter, M.D., professor of ophthalmology in the Departments of
Ophthalmology and Pathology, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1990,
after a distinguished career as a clinician, teacher, and researcher.
Having obtained his medical training and ophthalmology residency in his native
Germany, Dr. Wolter emigrated in 1953 to begin work as a research associate at the
University of Michigan Neuropsychiatric Institute. Three years later, he was named
assistant professor of ophthalmology in the Department of Ophthalmology. He was
promoted to associate professor in 1960, and in 1963 received a joint appointment as
associate professor of ophthalmology in the pathology department. He was promoted
to professor of ophthalmology in the Departments of Ophthalmology and Pathology in
1964.
As a clinician, Dr. Wolter had a particular interest in diseases of the retina and
diseases of the orbit. He performed many of the early retinal surgeries at the
University of Michigan, and also undertook clinical responsibility for many patients
with orbital disease, particularly those in need of orbital surgery. Even as the era of
subspecialization in ophthalmology developed, Dr. Wolter remained a strong force in
the department in residency training in general ophthalmology. He was responsible
for all of the ophthalmic pathology instruction in the department's residency program
and helped provide opportunities for interested medical students to conduct vision
research.
Dr. Wolter's major research interest was in ophthalmic pathology, and he has
distinguished himself throughout his career with contributions to that field. His early
work on silver stains of the retina brought him acclaim, and he has been a prolific
contributor to the scientific literature. Most recently, Dr. Wolter's research interests
have focused on the cellular response to intraocular lens implants. He is sought after
as a lecturer worldwide and has published extensively on this subject.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician, educator, and researcher
for his dedicated service by naming J. Reimer Wolter Professor Emeritus of
Ophthalmology.
Memorials
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following memorial:
Earl J. Schulze, associate professor of English language and literature, died of
leukemia on November 21, 1990, at the age of 57.


-129 -



December Meeting, 1990


Born in Chicago on March 9, 1933, Professor Schulze received his B.S. degree
from Princeton University in 1954, and his M.A and Ph.D. degrees from Northwestern
University in 1956 and 1962, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1963.
Earl Schulze taught courses in a wide range of literary subjects, from
Shakespeare to James Joyce, from romantic poetry to modern American fiction. He
had perhaps the widest range of expertise of teaching of any colleague in the
Department of English. During Russell Fraser's period as chair of the English
department, in the late 1960s and early 1970s, Professor Schulze served as unofficial
associate chair of the department, aiding importantly in its organization. Later, he was
for several years secretary of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Professor Schulze specialized in romantic poetry. His book, Shelley's Theory of
Poetry: A Reappraisal, was the first winner of the University of Michigan English
department's Bredvold Prize, honoring a publication by a junior faculty member. He
rounded his career with Shelley, as his final article, in Studies in Romanticism,
concerned Shelley's final poem, "The Triumph of Life."
As an undergraduate, Schulze was a nationally ranked tennis player who
competed in the United States Open at Forest Hills, New York. He later went on to
win the Ann Arbor men's singles championship.
Professor Schulze is survived by his wife Aileen. Other survivors include a
daughter Elizabeth, of Evanston, Illinois, and three stepchildren, Scott Mengel of
Palm Springs, California, Carla Mengel of Santa Barbara, California, and Marcia
Mengel of Andover, Massachusetts. His father Erwin, of Holiday, Florida, and a
brother Erwin, of Libertyville, Illinois, also survive.
As we mourn the loss of this valued colleague and teacher, our condolences go
to his family.
Degrees
Regent Power moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists. They also
approved the final degree list for the August 1990 Law School commencement.
Financing for UM Hospitals' Capital Projects, Renovation Projects, and Equipment
Replacement
It was noted that the Regents had earlier in the meeting taken action on this
topic that had been listed in the regular agenda as an information item.
Chemical Sciences Facility Phase II: Renovation of 1908 and 1948 Buildings
Vice President Womack noted that the renovation of the 1908 and 1948
chemical sciences buildings had been approved in 1983 as part of the overall planning
strategy for the Chemical Sciences Facilities, the first phase of which was completion
of the new Willard Henry Dow Laboratory.
Regent Brown moved, and Regent Nielsen seconded, approval of the $19.9
million budget as described in the Regents communication, and releasing the project
for bids. Following some discussion about the financing and the programmatic uses of
the renovated buildings, the vote was taken, and the motion was unanimously
approved.


-130 -



December Meeting, 1990


UM Hospitals Maternal and Child Health Center Project, Renovation Component
Vice President Womack pointed out that the renovation component of this
project had been reduced in scope in order to be able to manage it within the
available budget. On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the
Regents unanimously authorized award of a construction contract to Brencal
Contractors, Inc., for the renovation component of the Maternal and Child Health
Center Project.
Parking Operations Annual Maintenance 1991
Vice President Womack reported that the annual parking maintenance program
for 1991 will address both security and maintenance issues. A new emergency
telephone system will be installed in all structures and in some surface lots, and
security lighting will be upgraded through the entire parking system.
There was a discussion of the necessity to increase the availability of parking,
both in the central campus and medical campus areas. Vice President Womack stated
that there is currently no way to finance new structures at the current cost of $8,000 to
$12,000 per space; this cost is too great to be borne by user fees and other funds are
not available for this purpose. At the Regents' request, Vice President Womack
agreed to examine the parking consequences associated with the construction of the
Medical Science Research Building III.
Following further discussion, Regent Power moved, Regent Nielsen seconded,
and the Regents unanimously approved, proceeding with the project as described.
Long Term Care Benefit
Vice President Womack submitted a request for approval of University
sponsorship of a long term care program offered by TIAA. Premiums would be paid
entirely by employees, at a one-time cost to the University of about $25,000.
During the discussion that followed, the Regents expressed concern that this
would eventually become a University-paid benefit at great expense to the University.
Vice President Womack responded that this could not occur without prior Regental
approval. Regent Power commented it would not be good policy to reject an
employee-pay policy for fear that these costs might be assumed in the future by the
University. Vice President Womack pointed out that long term care benefits that
enable people to remain in their homes or nursing homes have the potential to help
control overall health care costs.
Following the discussion, Regent Smith moved, Regent Waters seconded, and
the Regents unanimously approved, offering the TIAA long term care program.
Relocation of Oakway Road
Vice President Womack explained that this is a request to extend by 90 days a
provision resulting from a 1985 plan developed jointly by the City of Ann Arbor, the
Veterans Administration, and the University of Michigan. One of the conditions
agreed to when the conveyance from the University to the United States of America
occurred in 1987 was that the United States and the City of Ann Arbor would execute
a road agreement before January 1, 1991, which provides for an improved roadway


-131 -



December Meeting, 1990


system which will serve the Veterans Administration Hospital and the University's
adjacent North Campus. Vice President Womack noted that the interests of the
University are served by granting an extension of the time limit for such an agreement.
Following some discussion, Regent Nielsen moved, Regent Smith seconded, and
the Regents unanimously approved, extension of the time to enforce the University's
reversionary interest in condition #2 of the conveyance of property by the University
to the United States of America (as described in the Regents communication), so that
such condition requires the road agreement to be executed by April 1, 1991, rather
than January 1, 1991.
Revision of Regents Bylaw 13.01 (Institute of Public Policy Studies)
Provost Whitaker noted that the proposed bylaw revision would change the way
that the Institute of Public Policy Studies (IPPS) operates, by enabling IPPS to appoint
faculty directly, rather than through other teaching units. He emphasized that the
IPPS appointment power would be used sparingly, with the majority of its
appointments still made jointly with other units.
Following some discussion, Regent Power moved approval of the proposed
revisions to Regents' Bylaws Section 13.01. Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously, to read as follows:
Regents'Bylaw Section 13.01:
The Institute of Public Policy Studies shall be maintained for the
purpose of promoting and conducting instruction, interdisciplinary research,
and service in the fields of public policy and administration requiring technical
knowledge and skills based upon the social and management sciences and
related disciplines. The institute shall maintain a program of instruction, to
the end that students may gain a better understanding of the functions of
government, the nature of public sector problems, and relevant analytical and
management techniques and thereby become better equipped to serve in
management and policy-formation capacities in the public sector.
The institute shall be in the immediate charge of an executive
committee. The executive committee shall consist of the director, ex officio.
and five members of the faculty external to the institute to be appointed by the
Board on recommendation by the president. The appointed members shall
hold office for staggered three-year terms and shall not be eligible for
reappointment until after the lapse of one year. The director shall be chair of
the committee.
The executive committee shall be responsible to the vice president for
academic affairs and provost with respect to appointments, promotions,
budget, and the organization and conduct of the program.
The director of the Institute of Public Policy Studies shall be appointed
for a term not to exceed five years by the Board of Regents on
recommendation of the vice president for academic affairs and provost. The
director shall be responsible for administrative duties arising in connection
with the institute. The director shall have responsibility for developing,


-132 -



December Meeting, 1990


coordinating, and maintaining the instructional, research and service
programs.
The institute shall coordinate the teaching interests and efforts of the
several units on the campus that contribute to the work of the institute.
Primary responsibility for development of undergraduate concentration and
graduate study programs rests with the institute.
Assistant professors and other nontenured members of the instructional
staff shall be appointed by the president on recommendation of the director
and executive committee. In exceptional circumstances, the Board may
appoint or promote a member of the instructional staff to a tenured
professorial position in the institute on the recommendation of the director
and executive committee, and of the president. All other members of the
University staff offering courses in institute instructional programs shall hold
teaching appointments in one of the established teaching units.
UM-Dearborn Campus Development Plan
Chancellor Wilson introduced Mr. William McGibbon of Johnson, Johnson, and
Roy, Inc., to present the 1990 Update of the UM-Dearborn Campus Development
Plan.
Mr. McGibbon gave a slide presentation describing the major features of the
campus development plan, and responded to questions from the Regents. In response
to concerns raised during the discussion about providing a buffer zone to protect the
integrity of the Henry Ford Estate-Fair Lane, it was agreed that the plan would be
modified and returned to the Regents for reconsideration.
Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and GlycoGen, Inc.
Regent Brown moved, Regent Smith seconded, and all seven Regents present
unanimously approved, authorization for the University to enter into a license
agreement with GlycoGen, Inc. Because one of the stockholders of GlycoGen,
Professor John B. Lowe, is also a University employee, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and
GlycoGen, a corporation in which Professor John B. Lowe owns
stock.
2.   Terms of the contract include: a duration for the term of the last to
expire of the licensed patents, and consideration to the University
consisting of payment of royalties, including minimum royalties, on
products utilizing the technology and certain biological materials
related thereto and reimbursement of University patent filing and
prosecution costs for the technology. Royalties will be paid at a rate
of six per cent for human therapeutic applications, four per cent for
direct sales of glycosyl transferase enzymes, and three per cent for
diagnostic, agricultural and other applications. Minimum royalties
shall commence on the agreement's fourth anniversary at $20,000 and


-133 -



December Meeting, 1990


progress each year thereafter to $100,000 in the seventh and each
subsequent year. The University retains ownership of all technology.
The University retains the right to use such technology for research,
teaching and other educationally-related purposes. GlycoGen shall
diligently pursue the commercial development and exploitation of the
technology covered by the proposed license agreement. There is no
use of facilities or services of the University included in the contract
and no assignment of University employees for fulfillment of the
contract.
3.   Professor Lowe's pecuniary interest in the contract arises from his
stock ownership, currently consisting of approximately 4.3 per cent of
GlycoGen's total authorized shares, including both common and
preferred stock. Professor Lowe's equity interest will be in lieu of
participation in the sharing of royalties received by the University in
accordance with University policy. Professor Stoolman's potential
pecuniary interest which would arise should he accept a position on
GlycoGen's Scientific Advisory Board, would consist of a $500 fee per
board meeting and options for approximately.5 per cent of
GlycoGen's currently authorized shares. Given the tangential and
minimal nature of Professor Stoolman's potential involvement with
GlycoGen, Professor Stoolman would remain eligible to participate in
the applicable inventors' share of royalties that may result from the
proposed GlycoGen license agreement.
Reassignment of University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property (Michael W.
Long)
Regent Smith moved, Regent Power seconded, and all seven Regents present
unanimously approved, an assignment agreement between the University of Michigan
and Michael W. Long, Ph.D., regarding the intellectual property, "A two-phase culture
system for the in-vitro growth and development of human bone-forming cells and their
precursors". Because Mr. Long is a Umversity employee, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the assignment agreement will be the University of
Michigan and Michael W. Long.
2.   The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987, and are hereby
incorporated by reference in this action.
Medical Staff Appointments
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Martha Cook Building 75th Anniversary
Regent Smith made the following motion:


-134 -



December Meeting, 1990


WHEREAS the Martha Cook Building, a gift from William Wilson
Cook, celebrates its 75th anniversary this year;
WHEREAS, it was William Wilson Cook's belief "that magnificent
equipment enlarges the vision, gives an inspiration, and stirs the imagination
of the students";
WHEREAS, William Wilson Cook gave expression to his belief through
his gift for this building and the magnificent Law Quadrangle;
WHEREAS, William Wilson Cook, himself a University of Michigan
alumnus, will be forever remembered through his gifts, which are some of the
largest ever to the University of Michigan and among the largest ever to higher
education in the country;
WHEREAS, the alumnae of the Martha Cook Building have confirmed
the value of these inspirational surroundings through their accomplishments
and loyalty to the University of Michigan and to the Martha Cook Building;
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Board of Regents
congratulates the Martha Cook Building alumnae, staff and residents upon
their Diamond Jubilee celebration and upon the building's inclusion in the
State Register of Historical Buildings.
Regent Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously. Regent
Smith pointed out that three Martha Cook alumnae have served as Regents: Regents
Emeriti Irene Murphy and Gertrude Huebner, and she herself.
Regent Roach
Regents Brown, Baker, and Smith commented on the outstanding contributions
Regent Roach had made during his two terms as Regent. Regent Brown noted that
his 16 years of service had been of unparalleled quality; Regent Smith observed that
he had been a good role model for her and that she felt privileged to have served with
him.
Regent Baker made the following statement about Regent Roach:
All of us here know the virtues of and the many contributions of
Regent Tom Roach to the University of Michigan and how well he has
served as a member of the Board of Regents.
One of those virtues is patience —patience with his peers, the faculty,
the students, and staff, and patience with the presidents with whom he has
served. The characteristic of his patience has been so helpful to us all
Tom is a man of wise counsel. Professionally he counsels his clients
as a lawyer and, over the years, he counseled the University and the Regents
welL
He is a tenacious man with an absolute dedication to understanding
the details of a matter. All of us know his devotion to discovering not only
what was presented by the administration, but his insistence on knowing the


-135 -



December Meeting, 1990


reasons behind that presentation and how it affects the well-being of the
University.
And finally, Tom is a man of high personal integrity. The truth is
important to him. These are some of the important characteristics of Tom
the man and Tom the Regent which have served the University of Michigan
so well over so many years.
Regent Roach thanked the Regents for their resolution and their comments,
and said he believes that being a Regent is "the world's best nonpaying job". He noted
that the greatness of the University on all of its campuses lies in its people, including
students, faculty, staff, hospital and medical school personnel, administrators, and
fellow Regents. He concluded by saying it had been a great pleasure for him to have
served on the Board, and that he would miss it very much.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on January 17-18, 1991. Regents' transportation, accommodation,
telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of November 1990 totalled
$461.88.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secre


-136 -



JANUARY MEETING, 1991


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 17, 1991
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Smith, Varner, and Waters.
Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Wilson. Regent McFee was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and read the following letter
from Regent McFee:
Please accept my regrets at not being present at the first meeting during
my tenure on the Board of Regents.
Upon first receiving the schedule of meetings for 1991, I arranged my
business schedule to accommodate my attendance at all the meetings,
including the one on January 17.
When notified that the January 17 meeting was cancelled, I re-adjusted
my business travel schedule to allow me to meet business obligations in
California on January 17th.
The re-scheduling of the meeting of the Board of Regents on January 17
came too late for me to reverse my travel arrangements.
I am extremely disappointed that I must miss the January 17 meeting,
and expect to be present at the future meetings currently determined.
Very truly yours,
Shirley M. McFee
Regent
State Economic Situation
President Duderstadt reported that Governor Engler had proposed drastic
reductions in state spending for the remainder of the fiscal year in order to balance the
budget, but that he had pledged to protect education (K-12, community colleges, and
higher education). He noted that the University expects to lose some funding, but that
the operating budget remains largely protected. However, he cautioned that there is
much opposition to the governor's pledge to exempt education from the budget cuts.
He also noted that other states are in similar economic situations, and have to make
up for billions of dollars in shortfalls.
Vice President Kennedy pointed out that the governor had also proposed a tax
cut plan, which would reduce property taxes by 20 per cent. However, because it is
unlikely that this executive order will be approved by the appropriations committees of


-137 -



January Meeting, 1991


both the House and the Senate, Vice President Kennedy predicted that a compromise
would be negotiated.
Minutes
Consideration of the minutes of the December 1990 meeting was delayed until
the next meeting.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted Reports of Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. As he was commenting on the
reports, the meeting was interrupted by a member of the public.
Motion to Recess and Remove
At approximately 1:15 P.M., Regent Nielsen made the following motion:
In accordance with the decisions of the Michigan Appellate Courts in
Regents v Washtenaw County Coalition Against Apartheid and because the
breach of the peace which has been committed at this meeting has made it
impossible to conduct the business of this meeting in an orderly fashion in this
location,
It is hereby moved that this meeting be recessed temporarily and removed to
the President's Conference Room to be there reconvened at approximately 1:30
P.M. Although those who have committed a breach of the peace at this meeting
will be excluded from the reconvened meeting, representatives of the press will be
admitted and others having business at the reconvened meeting may be admitted
as space permits. University personnel shall be stationed at the doors to this
meeting room to advise the press and the public of this recess and the location of
the reconvened meeting.
Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was adopted.
Reports
The meeting reconvened in the President's Conference Room at 1:25 P.M.
Vice President Kelly submitted Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects, and noted that the report of Projects Established —Research and
Other Activities for the following month would contain two months worth of projects.
Regents Report on Non-competitive Purchases Over $2,000 from Single
Sources, October 1 through December 31, 1990. Vice President Womack responded
to several questions from Regent Baker about specific noncompetitive purchases listed
in the report. There being no further discussion, on a motion by Regent Varner,
seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted a Summary Report, Detail Report, and


-138 -



January Meeting, 1991


Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of December 1990. He noted that
although it appears that some of the figures are below those of a year ago, the final
tally will not be completed until the end of January.
The Regents received the following gifts with thanks and in accordance with
their terms and conditions:
ARCO Chemical Company, Newtown Square, Pennsylvania
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration            5,000
Keith E. Alessi Virginia Beac, Virginia
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration              6,000
Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            20,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the College of Pharmacy                                    170,349
American Electric Power Service Corporation, Columbus, Ohio
for the Donald C. Cook Chair in Business Economics, School of Business Administration  5,000
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                    5,250
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for research in the School of Public Healh                                19,000
Anonymous Donor
for Chinese Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
Jack G. Armstrong, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
560 shares of Dow Jones & Company common stock; for the CA.M.P. Program in
the Alumni Association                                                        13,370
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research m the Medical School                                             38,667
Asian Cultural Council, New York, New York
for the India Site Seminar m the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for support of the University of Michigan Hospitals                            5,000
BASF Corporation, Chemicals Division, Parsippany, New Jersey
for the Macromolecular Research Center                                        15,000
Baker & Hostetler Founders Trust, Cleveland Ohio
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                            10,000
Iris Marie Becker Estate
for the Iris Becker Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Dearborn           7,000
John H. Beernink, Grand Rapids
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                 7,000
Maurice S. Binkow, Detroit
150 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock; for the Maurice and
Linda Binkow Fund in the School of Music, and for support of the Alumni Association,
the Law School, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the University
Musical Society                                                                8,063
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust Flint
for support of the Medical School the President's Fund, and the University of
Michigan-Flint Library/Learning Resources Center                              17,000
H. Glenn Bixbly, Detroit
for support of the School of Business Administration, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, the Alumni Association, and the Department of Athletics  8,000
Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Library/Learning Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint   25,000
Buhr Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business Administration,
and for the CA.M.P. Program in the Alumni Association                          6,000
Burroughs Memorial Trust, Flint
Tor the Library/Learning Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint   10,000
Paul B. Campbell, Lakewood, Ohio
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Law, and for the CA.M.P.
Program in the Alumni Association                                              6,450
Campus Rentals, Ltd., Ann Arbor
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine, the University
Musical Society, and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies          5,020


-139 -



January Meeting, 1991


Canon Information Systems Inc., Costa Mesa, California
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn                          35,000
Michael C. Carey, Chicago, Illinois
110 shares of Bafikers Trust Nikkel Put Warrants; for University of Michigan
Faculty Support                                                               6,221
Kathryn L. Carl, Flint
for the Kathryn L. Carl Scholarship the University of Michigan-Flint         10,000
Carnegie Corporation New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           25,000
David Chambers, Jr. Mequon, Wisconsin
350 shares of Merchants National common stock; for the Michael J. Walsh, Jr.,
Fund in the Law School                                                        5,381
David G. Chardavoyne Farmington Hills
for the Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall in the School of Music, and for the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics                               5,368
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           30,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for Chrysler Corporation Scholarships and Fellowships in the College of Engineering  14,000
Citibank Long sland City, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center and the Associates Program in the School of
Business Administration                                                      15,000
L. Thomas Conlin, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Charles P. Cousland, Brookfield, Wisconsin
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering                        5,000
Creative Industries Group, Inc. Auburn Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           16,782
Robert A. Darr Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Frances M. Daseler Trust Pomona, California
for the Elizabeth C. Mullin-Welch Lectureship in the Center for the Education
of Women                                                                      5,000
James E. and Wendy P. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration, and for
the President's Fund                                                         10,000
Roger David, Grand Rapids
for main entrance improvements in the School of Business Administration      60,000
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., Rye, New York
for the Marvin H. Davidson Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
John L. Denniston, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Dr. and Mrs. Robert P. Dobbie, Jr., Lincolnshire, Illinois
5,530 shares of Baxter International common stock, for the Robert P. and Barbara S.
Dobbie Fund, a Charitable Remainder Unitrust, for the ultimate benefit of the
Schools of Medicine and Nursing                                             145,854
William T. and Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
four shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock; for the Risk Management
Professorship in the School of Business Administration, and for the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics                              25,640
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Thomas S. Monaghan Funds in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics, and for
the Festival of Trees Fund in the Umversity of Michigan Hospitals            47,250
Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for the Manufacturing forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation Midland
for the Wiley T. Buchanan Research Fund in the Medical School, and for Chemical
Sciences Facilities in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts     800,000
Dunnings Foundation, Inc., Lansing
Tor the Alden J. "Butch" Carpenter Scholarship in the Law School, and for the Martin
Luther King Scholarship                                                       5,000
Electronic Data Systems Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Elkes Foundation, Rye, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000


-140 -



January Meeting, 1991


Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School      20,000
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Finlayson, Ponte Vedra, Florida
for the Robert M. and Louise S. Finlayson Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               10,000
Frederick J. Fischer Estate
for the Fischer Research Fund in the Medical School                           9,039
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                           25,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Education and Law, and in the Institute for
Social Research                                                              80,059
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support of the School of Business Administration, the CAD/CAM
Laboratory and other support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                             193,141
Mrs. Robert E. Frane, Webster Groves, Missouri
for the Robert E. Frane Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  100,000
Martin and Linda Frank, Beverly Hills, California
for the Humanities Institute Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                  5,000
Edward P. Frohlich, Grosse Pointe Farms
260 shares of Rockwell International common stock; for the Schools of Law and Music,
and the University Musical Society                                            7,199
General Dynamics, St. Louis, Missouri
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching
Gifts                                                                        25,350
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for unrestricted capital support in the School of Business Administration   200,000
Charles H. Gessner, Riverside, Connecticut
for the Charles H. Gessner Doctoral Fellowship in the School of Business
Administration, and for support of the College of Engineering                11,100
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Ginn, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for support of the College of Engineering, Michigan Historical Collections, and for
unrestricted support of the University ofMichigan                             5,050
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company Akron, Ohio
for support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts   10,100
William A. Gracie, Jr., Ann Arbor
100 shares of CNA Financial Corporation common stock; for the Sports Service
Building in the Department of Athletics, and as an additional gift for the
William A. Gracie, Jr., Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Medical School                                                                6,438
Katherine Graham, Washington, D.C.
for gifts pending designation                                                15,000
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources                              20,000
Ruth W. Harris Ann Arbor
for the Ruth W. Harris Scholarship in the Division of Kinesiology, and for
the Phyllis Ocker Scholarship in the Department of Athletics                 10,100
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          237,948
Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
for research in the Medical School                                            5,180
Lloyd A. Heneveld, Grand Rapids
190 shares of Laser Alignment, Inc. common stock; for the Sports Service
Building in the Department of Athletics                                       5,016
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for the Herrick Foundation Fund in the College of Engineering                20,000
Carl J. Herzog Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for dermatology support in the Medical School                                 6,000
Douglas N. Higgins, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
John G. Hill, Boulder, Colorado
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration             5,000
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for research in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  13,370
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Thoracic Surgery Research Fellowship in the Medical School           10,000


-141 -



January Meeting, 1991


Charles S. and Ann S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
for the Harold A. Furlong Chair in the Medical School                        10,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      50,000
Joyce Foundation, Chicago Illinois
for research in the School of Public Health                                  25,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           35,498
KL Spring and Stamping Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in theDepartment of Athletics                 5,000
Barbara Brattin Kacir, Cleveland, Ohio
for the William J. Brattin Scholarship Endowment in the Law School            7,000
Mrs. Lewis Dallas Kaufman, Ann Arbor
311 shares of Sears, Roebuck & Company, and 100 shares of Owens-Corning
Corporation common stocks; for the Lewis D. and Stella Kaufman Fund in the
Institute of Gerontology                                                      9,646
Robert C. Keck, Wilmette, Illiois
1,000 shares of First Illinois, 300 shares of Gannett Company and 250 shares of
Barclays Bank, common stocks; for the Robert C. Keck Scholarship in the Law School  25,931
James C. Keen, Ann Arbor
for the Cliff Keen Arena in the Department of Athletics                      20,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies                31,395
Lacks Industries, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
D. Bruce Laing, Dowagiac
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
R. Leasia, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
James F. Lewis, Jr., Estate
for the James F. Lewis, Jr., Fund                                            21,825
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the M. B. Landers, Sr., Memorial Fund in the Medical School              15,000
Lions Clubs of Michigan, Lansing
for the Lions Club of Michigan Cochlear Fund in the Medical School            8,850
Little Family Foundation, Providence Rhode Island
for the Little Family Foundation Fellowships in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Loews Foundation, New York, New York
for the Umversity of Michigan Hospital, the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics, and for Employee Matching Gifts                     22,525
Luchek Family Charitable Trust, Prescott, Arizona
for the Luchek Family Student Loan Fund Endowment                           100,000
Mary R. Maddox Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      159,600
Emanuel N. Maisel Marital Trust, Farmington Hills
for the Emanuel N. Maisel Funds m the Medical School                        600,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            7,500
Marion Merrell Dow, Inc., Kansas City Missouri
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                       5,000
May Department Stores Company Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
tor student aid in the School of Business Administration, merit scholarships in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for Employee Matching Gifts  15,150
F. James McDonald, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for anthropology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  8,300
Mclnerney Leasing, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               20,000
Margaret M. Mcintosh, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Voice Scholarship in the School of Music            10,000
James 0. McNamee, Naples, Florida
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Medox Electro-Optics, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering                                   20,000
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey
for Minority Graduate Student Fellowships in the Medical School, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      15,250


-142 -



January Meeting, 1991


Mette Foundation, Detroit
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School                       90,000
Miller & Chevalier Charitable Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for the Law School Alumni Scholarship                                         5,000
Cruse W. and Virginia A. Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Clements Library, the University Musical Society, and the Sports
Services Building in the Department of Athletics                             27,600
Virginia Patton Moss, Ann Arbor
for the Center for the Education of Women                                     5,000
Motorola, Inc., Semiconductor Products Sector, Phoenix, Arizona
for research in the College of Engineering                                  100,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for urban and regional affairs research, the University of Michigan-Flint    30,000
Richard C. Nagel, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                               5,000
National Vascular Malformations'Foundation, Dearborn Heights
for research in the Medical School                                           10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Edward J. Neithercut, Flint
for the Library/Learning Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint  10,000
Henry H. Newlin, Tecumseh
for the Henry and Nancy Newling Women's Basketball Scholarship in the
Department of Athletics                                                      40,000
Irene F. Oestrike, Indianapolis, Indiana
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering, in memory of Wilfred
C. Oestrike                                                                   5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Casper Y. Offutt, Jr., Atherton, California
five shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock; for the Casper and Helen Offutt
Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        33,500
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            6,270
PGA Tour Employees and Business Colleagues, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
for thoracic surgery support in the Medical School, in memory of Elle Evenson  5,788
D. Ann Pearson, San Francisco, California
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Harold J. Peplau, Ypsilanti
for the Medsport Program, the University of Michigan Hospitals               10,000
Phillip E. Perkins, Broomfielk Hills
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                                5,000
Edward J. Perlberg, Standish
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                5,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia Pennsylvama
for research in the School of Public Health                                  60,000
John H. Pickering, Washington, D.C.
428 shares of Interlake Corporation 214 shares of Acme Steel Company, and cash
gift of $1,000; for the Wade H. McCree Professorship in the Law School        5,548
Plough Foundation, Memphis, Tennessee
for the Plough Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy                        45,000
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Norman F. Miller Chair in the Medical School                          5,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
cash gift for the John A. Pursley Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate
benefit of the College of Engineering                                        10,000
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust Grand Rapids
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                  5,545
Research to Prevent Blindness, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           50,000
P. Anthony Ridder, Miami, Florida
2,500 shares of Informix Corporation and 172 shares of Knight-Ridder Newspapers
common stocks; for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  19,084
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for the Rockefeller Foundation Service Appreciation Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies                                                    8,000
Mrs. Lyle C. Roll, Scottsdale, Arizona
1,000 shares of CMS Energy Corporation common stock; for education and
research in the Medical School                                               25,500


-143 -



January Meeting, 1991


Mary Romano Estate Park Forest, Illinois
for the Schoof of Social Work                                                5,000
M. Rosenblatt & Son Inc., New York New York
for the Rosenblatt Award Endowment in the College of Engineering            20,000
Pete and Theta Rosewig, Hobe Sound, Florida
for the Swimming and Diving Facility, and the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics                                                     13,000
Lois R. Ross Trust, Naples, Florida
for the LibraryLearning Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint  50,000
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy, and for Employee Matching Gifts    27,315
Mr. and Mrs. Richard N. Sarns, Ann Arbor
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine, the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Division of Kinesiology, the President's
Fund and the University Musical Society                                     28,000
Edward I. Schalon, St. Joseph
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Schering-Plough-Foundation, Inc., Madison, New Jersey
for the Plough Scholarship, and the Building Fund in the College of Pharmacy  95,000
S. H. and Helen R. Scheuer Family Foundation New York, New York
for the Scheuer Library Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship in the College of Engineering  6,000
Will and Barbara D. ScottFund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan,
Detroit, for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration   5,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 11,950
Donald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for the Donald R. Shepherd Scholarship Endowment in the Department of Athletics,
and for the Marching Band Enrichment Fund and the Elbel Club/Marching Band
Fund in the School of Music                                                250,000
Thomas T. Skrentny, Altoona, Pennsylvania
for philosophy support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts   5,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  12,770
Herbert E. Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Doris Sloan Memorial Fund in the Museum of Art, and the Thoracic Surgery
Research Fellowship in the Medical School                                   15,000
Philip L. Smith, Mount Sunapee, New Hampshire
for support of the School of Business Administration                         7,500
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Manufacturing forum in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Edward C. and Hazel L. Stephenson Foundation, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the Edward C. and Hazel L. Stephenson Memorial Scholarship               9,000
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Port Huron
for history support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts      5,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, AA.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern Masonic
Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts, for the Scottish Rite Funds in the
Medical School                                                              14,376
Harold Tanner, New York, New York
for support of the School of Education                                      10,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Hospital, and the Sports Service Building in
the Department of Athletics                                                 22,500
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation Ann Arbor
for the Margaret Towsley Fund in the Center for the Education of Women, the Sports
Service Building in the Department of Athletics, the Schools of Dentistry,
Medicine and Music, and the University Musical Society                     249,450
Mr. and Mrs. Frank H. Tranzow, Arcadia, California
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration, and
the College of Engineering                                                   5,015
Trimas Corporation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Stefan Tucker, Washington D.C.
for the Roy F. and lean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School  12,500
Robert P. Ufer, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              15,000


-144 -



January Meeting, 1991


United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           6,231
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Alumni Association                                   6,550
Lois Verner, Grosse Pointe Park
380 shares of General Motors Corporation common stock; for the Lois Verner
Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                        14,298
Charles J. Voelker Centerville, Ohio
for the College of Engineering                                              10,000
Howard P. Waldenmyer Rumford, Maine
22,600 shares of Ethyl Corporation common stock; for the Howard P. Waldenmyer
Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the Class of 1931 Scholarship
in the College of Engineering                                              518,388
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Meadow Brook Conference Fund in the Medical School, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                              10,626
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for the College of Pharmacy, and the Kelsey Museum Associates                5,300
Emil A. Weddige, Ann Arbor
for the Juanita Weddige Scholarship in the School of Music                  15,000
Marshall Weinberg Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Marshall Weinberg Judaic Studies Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        5,800
Whitby Research, Inc., Richmond, Virginia
for psychopharmacology research in the Medical School                       50,000
Jamison Wilsams Foundation, Birmingham
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering                       5,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for the Prechter Scholarship in Literacy in the School of Education, and for
the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                  50,000
Xerox Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,543
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School                             50,000
Stanley Zax, Beverly Hills, Califorma
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                  15,000
Roy H. Ziegler Trust East Lansing
for the Roy H. Ziegler Scholarship in the College of Engineering             5,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computer Inc., Farmington Hills
ten Mac//cx personal computer systems with accessories, and three printers; for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, Calculus Laboratory
Nancy and Jerrold Frost Ann Arbor
a sprayer, and a leaf vacuum; for the Botanical Gardens
Peter A. Hubbard, Redford
a Vanguard 470 sailboat with accessories and a trailer; for Camp Michigania-Boyne City
Eugene M. Pijanowski, Ann Arbor
an Apple Macintosh Plus and printer; for the School of Art
Rayco Manufacturing, Inc., Rochester Hills
an R & R Vacuum Fixture, Model #R-15, with components; for the Department of Industrial &
Systems Engineering
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:


-145 -



January Meeting, 1991


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Thomas J. DeKornfeld, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Professor Emeritus of Postgraduate
Medicine and Health Professions Education, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Harold R. Johnson Dean, School of Social Work, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, and Professor
of Health Behavior and Health Education, School of Public Health, without tenure, appointment
extended as Dean, School of Social Work, for a one-year period, July 1, 1991
Andrew S. Watson,        Emeritus of Law and Professor Emeri E tus of sychiatry, reappointed to
active status, winter term
Frank B. Womer, Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Don P. Haefner from Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, to Professor of
Health Dehavior and Health Education, with tenure, and Actin Chair of the Department of
Health Behavior and Health Education, for a five-month period
Michael J. Schneider, from Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Arts, Sciences and Letters,
and Associate Provost, UM-Dearborn, to Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, and Interim Provost and Interim Vice-Chancellor for Academic Affairs,
UM-Dearborn, for a six-month period
Leaves of Absence. The Regents approved an extension of leave of absence for
Judith A. Moldenhauer, assistant professor of art, extended through May 31, 1992.
Robert J. Hiller Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
The Regents approved the appointment of George I. Haddad as the Robert J. Hiller
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, effective February 1, 1991.
Ralph Waldo Gerard Professor of Neurosciences. The Regents approved the
appointment of Bernard W. Agranoff as the Ralph Waldo Gerard Professor of
Neurosciences for a five-year period, effective January 18, 1991.
Associate Dean, School of Education, University of Michigan-Dearborn. The
Regents approved the promotion of Jane A. Romatowski from Assistant Dean to
Associate Dean in the School of Education at the University of Michigan-Dearborn
for a three-year period, effective February 1, 1991.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Jonathan Levine MS, M.C.P., Lecturer min Urban Planning, January 1, 1991
Medical School
Suzanne M. Selvaggi, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, December 1, 1990
School of Nursinn
Carol Me Serr, M.S., Lecturer in Nursing, September 1,1990


-146 -



January Meeting, 1991


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Timothy t Bahti Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Comparative
terature, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1-December 31, 1991
William H. Baxter III, Associate Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, and
the Program in Linguistics, sabbatical leave, January 1-MAa 31, 1991
Kathleen M. Canning, Assistant Professor of History, extended sick leave, January 1-March 10, 1991
Kaori K. Ohara, Lecturer in Asian Languages and Cultures, extended sick leave, October 30 -December 31, 1990
John F. Ward, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
Medical School
James W. Albers, Professor of Neurology, with tenure, Department of Neurology and Professor of
Neurology, without tenure Department of Physica Medicine and Rehabiitation, sabbatical leave,
November 1, 1990-April 36,1991
Georgine M. Steude, Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, sabbatical leave, February 18-August 17, 1991
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1990, unless otherwise indicated
Collee of Literature Science, and the Arts
JohnW. Aldridge, Professor of Ensh Language and Literature, with tenure
Jennifer S. Balay, Lecturer in Psychology, April 30, 1990
Medical School
James M. Mountz, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, November 30, 1990
Gail M. White, Instructor in Radiology
UM-Dearbom School of Management
Robert L. Minter, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure
UM-Flint School of Management
Antonio J. Rodriguez, Assistant Professor of Finance
Reino V. Warren, Assistant Professor of Quantitative Methods
Retirement Memoirs
No retirements were reported to the Regents this month.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved a change to the previously approved degree list.
NCAA Reform Proposals
President Duderstadt then introduced Mr. John P. Weidenbach, interim director
of athletics, and Professor Percy Bates, faculty representative to the Board in Control
for Intercollegiate Athletics, to brief the Regents on the reforms enacted at the recent
meeting of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA).


-147 -



January Meeting, 1991


Mr. Weidenbach reviewed the history of the reform movement, pointing out
that the two motivating factors in producing the reforms were improving the situation
for student athletes and doing something to control costs. He noted that he and
Professor Bates had met with President Duderstadt prior to attending the convention
and had agreed that the institutional position would be to support the reform
proposals.
Mr. Weidenbach mentioned some of the specific reforms that had been
adopted. These include the phasing out of athletic dorms and training tables (neither
of which had been in place at the University of Michigan); limitations on coaching,
including a reduction in the number of full time coaches for football and basketball,
the creation of a category of "restricted earnings" coaches in football, and other
coaching limitations in all sports other than football; limitations on playing and
practice time and on the number of scholarship awards that can be given in football,
basketball, and in all other sports except women's tennis, gymnastics, and volleyball.
Professor Bates pointed out that whereas the focus of the 1991 convention was
on cost-cutting, the focus of the 1992 convention will be academics.
Regent Brown expressed his approval of the reforms, noting that it indicates
that university presidents around the country are taking an interest in controlling
abuses in intercollegiate athletics. He also pointed out that more reforms are still
necessary, and that many of the rules will be very difficult to enforce. Regent Brown
also recommended that there be a limit on the length of time in advance that teams
are allowed to set their playing schedules. He also commented on the adverse effect
that television coverage has on intercollegiate athletics in terms of the pressures
caused by the publicity and large purse sizes.
Mr. Weidenbach noted that this problem is especially acute in basketball.
President Duderstadt reported that there is a group of college presidents who believe
it is essential for the institutions to take control of television coverage of
intercollegiate sports, and that he expects the number of advocates of this position to
increase.
Regent Power observed that a number of these issues involve policy questions,
and ask that there be a discussion of the following issues at a later date: 1) an
economic analysis of athletic department activities, especially vis a vis the impact of
the media; 2) relationships with professional sports, and whether universities serve as
farm teams for the pros; and 3) intercollegiate programs designed for "superstar"
athletes versus intramural, club-sport type programs. The president noted that these
questions are of particular interest to him as well.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Mr. Weidenbach explained that
the three women's sports exempted from the scholarship reduction provision are "head
count sports", in which a scholarship cannot be split up between athletes.
Regent Smith also asked Mr. Weidenbach why women were not allowed to use
the new Sports Service Building. Mr. Weidenbach explained that use of this facility is
only restricted during the football season, during which times other men's teams do
not use it either. At all other times it is open to male and female athletes in all sports.


-148 -



January Meeting, 1991


Regent Baker voiced support of Regent Power's suggestion that a format be
developed in which the Regents will have a voice in policy issues as they are
developing, in keeping with their function of oversight of all University activities. He
noted that the Regents had had no control over the issue of admitting Pennsylvania
State University into the Big Ten conference.
Lowering of Michigan Stadium Playing Field
Mr. Weidenbach reported on the progress that had been made in lowering the
Michigan Stadium playing field. He said that it had been determined that the water
table was low enough to be able to lower the stadium by three and one-half feet, and
that this was sufficient to accomplish the objective of substantially improving the site
lines for viewers in the lower rows. Mr. Jagdish Janveja, director of facilities planning
and design at Plant Extension, displayed drawings and described the new playing field.
He announced that the 16,500 cubic yards of dirt removed from the stadium was being
sold to the city at a substantial cost savings to both parties.
Comments by Regent Baker
Regent Baker commented that he was disappointed that the meeting disruption
had caused the cancellation of the scheduled Public Comments session. He also
observed that the United States and other nations had committed their armed forces
to battle in Iraq, after both the United Nations and the United States Congress had
supported that course of action. He said that the United States was at war with Iraq
and he believed that all citizens should support the men and women of our armed
forces who are on the field of battle. He further noted that there were large numbers
of people in the nation, the state, and in Ann Arbor who supported the United
Nations and the allied countries in this effort.
Public Comments
Due to the meeting disruption, the Public Comments session was cancelled.
The speaker will be given an opportunity to address the Board at the next meeting.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 2:15 P.M. The
next meeting will take place on February 7-8, 1991. Regents' transportation,
accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of December
1990 totalled $35.31.
Ri chard L. ennedy, Secre


-149 -



FEBRUARY MEETING, 1991


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 7, 1991
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, Varner, and
Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and welcomed Regent
Shirley McFee to her first Regents' Meeting. He then called on Regent Nielsen, who
made the following motion:
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on February 7, 1991, at 3:00 P.M, in the Regents' Room, and on
February 8, 1991, at 8:00 A.M, in the third floor conference room, for the
purpose of consulting with the Board's attorney regarding trial or settlement
strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Operating Statements for WFUM-FM, WFUM-TV, and WUOM/WVGR;
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1990
Vice President Womack reminded the Regents that the correct figures for the
operating statements are in the revised document found in the additional agenda. He
then introduced Mr. Walter Harrison, executive director of University relations, to
present the Broadcasting Properties Report.
Annual Broadcasting Properties Report
Mr. Harrison noted that both WFUM-TV and WUOM/WVGR had had
operating losses for fiscal year 1989-90, but despite that, had built momentum and
turned the corner toward increasing their audiences and private donations as well as
the span that they reach. He said that he anticipated that next year's losses would be
smaller or nonexistent, due largely to significantly better fundraising results.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Mr. Harrison said that the deficit
for WUOM/WVGR had been made up by funds from other units under his purview.
He also reported that the stations' Arbitron ratings had improved, and that the
amount of donations had increased. Regent Baker observed that WUOM/WVGR
had always been an important vehicle for strengthening the University's image
throughout the state, and he hoped it could operate profitably and continue to
perform its function.


-151 -



February Meeting, 1991


Regent Power observed that the Arbitron ratings were a good indicator of the
direction the station was headed. He also recalled the decision of several years ago
when WUOM was eliminated from covering University of Michigan sports events due
to contracts signed with other radio stations for exclusive coverage. Regent Power
expressed a desire to have WUOM resume coverage of University of Michigan sports
events when these contracts are renegotiated.
Regent Power moved adoption of the audited financial reports for WUOM/
WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990. Regent
Smith seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
1991-92 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Mr. Robert Hughes, director of University housing, described the process by
which the student/staff rate committee had determined the recommended housing
rates for the coming year, noting that the University of Michigan is the only university
in the country with such a review process. He reported that while the Housing
Division was very supportive of the rate committee's recommendations, it had had to
increase the recommended rates slightly to accommodate the merger of the Housing
Division with the Michigan Union, North Campus Commons, and the Department of
Conferences and Institutes. He also pointed out that for the third consecutive year,
the committee had elected to increase by $1.00 per month the voluntary payment for
services to the Ann Arbor Board of Education by residents of family housing.
Mr. Hughes described some major alterations to the mandatory meal plan,
which give more flexibility to the plan for students living in traditional residence halls.
Noting that 98 to 99 per cent of first-year students choose to live in residence
halls despite the fact that this is not a University requirement, Mr. Hughes said that
for a number of years there has been a lottery for students who wish to return to the
residence halls after their freshman year. However, for the coming year the lottery
will be discontinued, because for the past three years fewer students have chosen to
return than there were spaces available. He noted that for a number of years,
residence hall rates have been very competitive with the amounts students would pay
to live off campus.
Mr. Hughes then displayed slides showing the relationship of off campus
housing rates with those of residence halls, the rate of return to the residence halls,
and other figures that affect residence hall occupancy rates. He noted that 18.5 per
cent of the student body currently commute to the Ann Arbor campus, which is an
increase of 30 per cent since 1985. The commuters are upper level undergraduates
and graduate and professional students, not freshmen. The slide presentation
concluded with photographs of the nearly completed North Campus Family Housing
Community Center, which has recently been occupied.
Student Car Ownership. Regent Power commented about the parking situation
for students who commute to campus from outlying areas of the city, and suggested
that a study be undertaken of student car ownership and related parking issues.
Regent Nielsen requested that because of the severe parking problem on the Flint
campus, that campus should also be included in the study.
Funding for Auxiliary Activities. Regent Smith pointed out that the
student/staff rate committee's recommendation had been increased by 0.5 per cent to


-152 -



February Meeting, 1991


fund the merging of the Michigan Union, North Campus Commons, and Department
of Conferences and Institutes with the Housing Division. Noting that these activities
run negative fund balances, she said that it was unfair to assess only students who live
in residence halls and family housing for these units, since they are used by all
students.
Vice President Swain responded that the merging of these units with the
Housing Division would facilitate the integration of students' academic/intellectual
lives with their lives outside of the classroom. She said that the issue was not
subsidizing, but improving students' undergraduate experience at the University
through programs that utilize the facilities of the Michigan Union and North Campus
Commons.
President Duderstadt also emphasized that the funding for the auxiliary units
would be used for expanded programming for students who live in residence halls, in
an effort to achieve better integration between students' academic and nonacademic
experiences. Regent Smith reiterated her belief that the funds would be used to
subsidize those units, and that students should only be assessed for the cost of board
and room.
Regent Baker pointed out that with the current housing situation, students can
live in new apartments on the outskirts of the city for less money than they can live in
the residence halls, and that every incremental cost added to University housing
makes it less competitive. Regarding residence hall programming, Regent Baker
commented that many students find it difficult to live in residence halls because of the
political orthodoxy they have to accept to be able to live there. He noted that he had
received many comments from students and parents who are offended by the
orientation program. He also said that a student had recently told him that it was
impossible for a student with a conservative point of view to become a resident
advisor.
President Duderstadt commented that the programs being considered came
from the LS&A task force of faculty and students looking at ways to improve the
undergraduate experience, and that this will be a central focus of the University during
the 1990s.
Vice President Swain responded to questions from Regent Nielsen about the
type of integrative programming that is envisioned. In response to a comment from
Regent Nielsen about a student exodus away from student housing, Mr. Hughes
responded that there had been a slight decrease in the reapplication rate of students
returning to housing, but that efforts were being made to reverse this and he did not
see it as a trend. He added that the students were very excited about the many
programmatic initiatives being planned to revitalize food service and improve other
aspects of their living and learning environments.
Regent Power summarized the issues as what should be the relationship
between the academic enterprise and the housing experience, and given the decision
to integrate these components, should these activities be paid for from tuition or
housing rates?
Regent Varner observed that when she worked in the LS&A dean's office, there
was academic programming, such as the Pilot Program and the Residential College,
associated with housing, and that making the living experience a part of the


-153 -



February Meeting, 1991


educational experience has always been an important part of the undergraduate
academic programming. She pointed out that these programs were overseen by the
academic curriculum committee, and were not indoctrination sessions. She believes
such programs are very positive, and that it makes sense that the people who benefit
from them should pay for them.
Regent Nielsen moved approval of the recommended 1991-92 residence hall
and family housing rates, with the caveat that the fee increase designated for academic
programming would be effective for one year, at which time it would be re-evaluated
to determine its effectiveness. He also requested that in the future, residence hall and
family housing rate increase requests be broken down into their component parts.
Regent McFee seconded the motion.
President Duderstadt noted that the motion would not be voted on until the
following day, to allow time to hear public comments about the proposed increase.
Regent Smith asked why the programs could not be implemented without
residence hall residents having to subsidize the auxiliary units. President Duderstadt
responded that this is not a subsidy, and Mr. Hughes observed that the hope is to
eliminate the deficits in thee units by the economies of scale that will occur by
merging them with housing. It was also pointed out that although the 0.5 per cent rate
increase came up too late to be considered by the student rate committee, the student
members of the committee expressed great enthusiasm about the benefits that the
merger would bring.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Mr. Hughes said that it is not true
that conservative young people cannot be resident advisors.
Regent McFee commented that given that collee student s are making a
transition to learning how to live in the outside world, these courses could be very
effective vehicles to reinforce the importance of volunteerism to American society.
Residence hall programs could also give students something to relate to and feel a
part of, in much the same way that participation in sports or fraternities and sororities
provides a focus and source of identity for students.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of December 20-21, 1990, and January 17, 1991.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. Vice President Kelly submitted
a monthly report of Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored
Projects. Following some discussion, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the
reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted a Summary Report, Detail Report, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of January 1991. The following
gifts were accepted with thanks, and in accordance with their terms and conditions:


-154 -



February Meeting, 1991


Emma W. Alexander Ann Arbor
for support of the Schools of Art and Medicine, the University of Michigan
Hospital, and the Museum of Art                                             12,000
Judith Dow Alexander, Ann Arbor
118 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock, for the Moore Building in the
School of Music                                                              5,797
American Academy of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                          10,753
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                          12,666
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                           8,844
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          12,200
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                         105,098
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          64,000
American Paralysis Association, Springfield, New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature Science, and the Arts             10,269
American Society of Hematology, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the Medical School                                           7,500
Amoco Foundation, Chicago Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Scholarship and Fellowship Funds in the College of
Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts                                40,600
Anonymous Donor
for art history support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  8,000
Joseph A. Aristeo, Livoma
for support of the College of Engineering, the Department of Athletics, the
President's Fund, the University Library, and general University scholarships and
student aid                                                                  7,500
Dr. and Mrs. John M. Armstrong, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering                       5,000
Louis G. Baldacci, Atherton, California
for the Sports Service Building and Golf Course Restoration in the Department
of Athletics                                                                22,000
Terry Barr Sales Agency, Inc., Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              20,000
Barris, Sott, Denn & Driker, Detroit
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                           5,000
Bay Area Community Foundation, Bay City
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              20,009
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                  25,000
Terry J. Bergstrom, Ann Arbor
for the F. Bruce Fralick Professorship Endowment in the Medical School       5,000
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   8,000
Les and Anne Biederman Foundation, Inc., Traverse City
for support of the College of Engin'eering, the Medical School, and the
University Hospitals                                                        20,000
Richard L. Boger, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Frederic F. Brace Jr., Evanston, Illinois
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship Endowment in the Law School               5,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Edward Bransilver, Washington, D.C.
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship Endowment in the Law School               5,000
Gaylen J. Byker, Weehawken, New Jersey
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   5,000
CBS Foundation, New York, New York
for the Burton R. Benjamin Fellowship in Broadcast Journalism, in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies                                          50,000
Will M. Caldwell, West Bloomfield
2,851 shares of Ford Motor Company common stock; for the Will and Jeanne
Caldwell Scholarship in the Department of Athletics                         77,512


-155 -



February Meeting, 1991


Alexa Canady-Davis, West Bloomfield
for the Martin Luther King Scholarship                                      7,500
Chase Manhattan Bank, New York, New York
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 5,600
Chevron U.SA., Inc., Concord California
for the Chevron Fellowship in the College of Engineering, and for the Endangered
Species Gift Fund in the School of Natural Resources                       17,500
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical SchooF                                         19,164
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                13,780
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for unrestricted capital support of the School of Business Administration,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                            13,916
George R. Corey, illbrae, Califoria
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics             15,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA. Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         62,500
Louis B. Cushmanh Houston, Texas
for unrestncted capital support of the School of Business Administration   10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                         16,200
D'Arcy, Masius, Benton and Bowles, Inc. New York, New York
for unrestricted capital support of the School of Business Administration   7,143
Helen Curtis Davis, Kane,Pennsylvania
cash contribution for the Helen Curtis Davis Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the
ultimate benefit of the School of Education                                 5,000
Deafness Research Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         10,000
Deneb Robotics, Inc., Troy
for the Deneb Robotics Fund in the College of Engineering                  17,347
Thomas A. Dieterich New York, New York
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship Endowment in the Law School              5,000
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              7,250
Dow Chemical U.S.A., Midland
for research in the School of Public Health                                38,000
Bertha F. Dunlap Trust
for the Dunlap Memorial Student Aid Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint  10,546
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 5,626
John R. Edman, Birmingham
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                22,350
Mark K. Fancher Ann Arbor
for the Chamberlain Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Murray J. Feiwell, Carmel, Indiana
for the Mellon Challenge Grant for Chinese Studies in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for unrestricted support of the Law School       7,500
Oscar Henry Feldman Detroit
for the Oscar Henry Feldman Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  10,000
E. Ann Finlayson, New York, New York
for the Louise and Robert Finlayson Family Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration, and for the Chemistry Library in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                        5,250
First National Bank of Chicago Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 6,105
Max M. and Marorie S. Fisher Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the U'niversity of Michigan Hospitals                                  25,000
Stephen and Angeline Fisher, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              5,000
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                  6,000
Ford Motor Company, Chemical Analysis and Research Services, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering                                  9,900


-156 -



February Meeting, 1991


Foundation for Chiropractic Education and Research, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering                                  10,770
Foundry Educational Foundation, Des Plaines, Illinois
for the Foundry Educational Foundation Fund in the College of Engineering    5,300
Geraldine Dietz Fox Foundation, Narberth, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for cancer research in the Medical School                                   24,642
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the C.A.M.P. Building Program in the Alumni Association                 40,000
Robert A. Fuhrman Trust, Pebble Beach. California
for the Aerospace Construction Fund in the College of Engineering           10,000
Donna Wickham Furth Fund of the Furth Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Humanities Institute Endowment in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                         5,000
Otto B. Gago, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              15,000
Gassin Family Foundation, Highland Park, Illinois
for the Amy Gassin and Nancy Gassin Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                      250,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc. Detroit
for the General Motors Funds in the College of Engineering and the School of
Natural Resources, and for the Associates Program in the School of Business
Administration                                                             335,000
Charles D. Gibson, Summit, New Jersey
for the Burton R. Benjamin Fellowship in Broadcast Journalism in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies                                          10,000
Allen Ward Gilbert Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       5,000
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for the Glaxo Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy                         39,500
Paul Goebel Group, Grand Rapids
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Paul G. GoebeL Jr., Grand Rapids
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Harold E. Gorman, Paulding, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Department of Athletics                     20,000
Grundy Industries, Inc., Joliet, Illinois
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Steven K. and Sheila Ford Hamp, Ann Arbor
for the Wade McCree Incentive Scholarship and other support at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, and for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, and the Clements
Library                                                                     12,300
David G. and Ann L. Hardy Trust, Mesa, Arizona
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
Eleanor C. and Jack E. Hill, Jackson
for research in the Medical School                                           5,000
Jesse M. Hill, Jr., Atlanta, Georgia
for the Jesse Hill, Jr. Fund in the School Business Administration           5,000
Jon R. Holt, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering                       5,000
Robert M. Hubbard Estate
for the Dr. Alfred H. White Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering     25,089
Richard P. Huttenlocher, Pontiac
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration  12,500
International Bio-Synthetics, Charlotte, North Carolina
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration         5,000
Helen L. Ittner Moraga, California
for the Edward Austin Jones Memorial Fund in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Marc Jacobson, Norfolk Virginia
for the Marc and Constance Jacobson Lectureship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        9,000
Lois Shakarian James Trust, Bal Harbour, Florida
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program            5,000
John and Janice Jameson, Northville
for the Child Life Department in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital          6,000


-157 -



February Meeting, 1991


Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health                               129,941
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         13,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Funds in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  6,000
Richard Katcher, University Heights, Ohio
for the Richard Katcher Loan Fund and other support in the Law School, for
scholarships and the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics
and for the CA.M.P. Building Program in fhe Alumni Association              6,800
Miner S. and Mary A. Keeler Fund, Gran Rapids
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  20,000
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
Administration1 and for Employee Matching Gifts                             5,610
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for te Interactive Computerized Database Research Project in the University
Library                                                                   170,533
Noboru Kikuchi, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Engineering                                  12,000
Grace F. Kikuchi Trust, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                         10,000
Robert I. Kleinberg, New York, New York
for the Robert T. Kleinberg English Language Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       5,000
Knoll International, Inc., East Greenville, Pennsylvania
for scholarships m the College of Architecture and Urban Planning          10,000
Daniel F. Kolb, New York, New York
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                         10,000
William C. Kuhns, Malibut California
for the Chamberlam Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Francis B. Kulp, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Class of 1964 Endowed Faculty Fund in the Law School                5,000
Mary E. LaBour Trust
for the Mary E. LaBour Fund and the Delta Omicron Scholarship in the
School of Music                                                            12,305
Leukemia Society of America, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         17,415
Charles and Ruth Levy Foundation, Chicago Illinois
for the Samuel R. and Marie-Louise Rosenthal Fund in the University Library  5,000
Nancy Newton Loeb Trust
for the Nancy Newton Loeb Funds in the Medical School                      34,633
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts          229,000
Robert P. Luciano, New Vernon, New Jersey
425 shares of Schering Plough common stock; for the Robert P. Luciano Endowment
Fund in the Law School                                                     18,116
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development, and the Institute
for Social Research, and for Employee Matching Gifts                      264,601
Monroe D. MacPherson, Westfield, New Jersey
for support of the School of Education, and for the Naval Architecture and
Marine Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering                5,500
Thomas S. Maentz, Birmingham
for the Sports Service Building the Department of Athletics                20,000
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Malloure, Birmingham
for the Donald and Lucille Malloure Fund and other support in the College
of Engineering, and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics        20,000
Alex and Mane Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Marie Manoogian Chair in Armenian Language and Literature, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                      250,000
Edward S. and Janet Mardigian, Bloomfield Hills
for the Armenian Studies Program, the University of Michigan-Dearborn       5,000
John A. McDonald, Chicago, Illinois
for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School  5,000
Douglas John McGregor Trust Pepper Pike, Ohio
for the SportsService Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000


-158 -



February Meeting, 1991


Richard T. McNamar, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School  5,000
George Meader, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the Law School and the Michigan Historical Collections  9,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New Yorkl New York
for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies           600,000
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  9,264
Michigan Eye Bank Research Center Capital Fund Campaign, Ann Arbor
for the Kellogg Eye Center in the Medical School                            76,899
Mrs. Vaden W. Miles, Ann Arbor
a Washtenaw County Community College Bond; for support of the Biological
Station in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                  9,590
Milheim Foundation for Cancer Research, Denver, Colorado
for research in the Medical School                                           6,250
Mintz Family Foundation, Mansfield, Ohio
for gifts pending designation                                                6,000
Mrs. Mervin Moon, Harbor Springs
for the Sports Service Buildmg in the Department of Athletics               10,000
James C. Moore, Palo Alto, Califorma
for the building fund in the School of Social Work                           8,856
John C. Morley, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration            5,000
Philip Morris Companies, Inc., New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  6,900
Minnie L. Morrison Estate
for the Charles and Minnie Morrison Scholarship                              5,383
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Transportation Research Institute       223,500
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Systems Program in the College of Engineering  10,000
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for the Industrial Partners Program in the College of Engineering            5,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for the University of Michigan Hospital, and for Employee Matching Gifts   401,660
Ruth Mott Fund Flint
for the Library/Learning Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint  50,000
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       5,470
John S. and Suzanne C. Mumnn, South Bend, Indiana
for the John S. and Suzanne C. Munn Fund in the Medical School              57,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                          15,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research m the Medical School                                            7,500
George J. Nichols, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Michigan League Development Fund                                    10,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Glen EUllyn, Illinois
for support of the Law School                                                5,000
Marlin H. Pemberton, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Perceptron, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the College of Engineering                                  50,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia Pennsylvania
for the Pew Program in the School of Public Health                         205,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, D.Co
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Pharmacy             15,000
Mr. and Mrs. Ronald L. Piaseckit Spring Lake
for the Sports Service Building i the Department of Athletics               20,000
Ethel Pont, Castro Valley, California
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in the Medical School                      5,000
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Research Corporation, Tucson, Arizona
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            25,000
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Inc., Davis, California
for research in the Medical School                                           6,250
Paula Rich, Ann Arbor
for the Physics Faculty and Alumni Fund, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 5,000


-159 -



February Meeting, 1991


Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Fund in the Medical School                         12,206
Willard J. Robinson Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       5,000
Richard H. Rogel West Bloomfield
for the School of Business Administration, the Sports Service Building in the
Department of Athletics, and the Wade H. McCree Incentive Scholarship       35,000
Mrs. Lyle C. Roll, Scottsdale, Arizona
for education and research in the Medical School                            25,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health                                 12,817
Gary S. Sandall Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              10,000
Mary C. Saxe Estate
for general research in the Medical School                                 175,874
Albert G. & Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                                10,000
Schlumberger Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship in the College of Engineering  15,000
Werner W. Schroeder Estate
for the Gerald R. Ford Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  8,319
Robert G. Schuur, New York, New York
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                           5,000
Wilbert G. Schwer Estate
thirty $500.00 U.S. Series HH Bonds, for the President's Fund               15,000
Jeane M. Seeley, Ann Arbor
for the John C. Seeley Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering    5,000
Joseph R. Seiger, Foster City, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                  10,000
Benson P. Shapiro, Concord, Massachusetts
1 111 shares of Staples, Inc., common stock; for unrestricted support of the
Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the
Minority Scholarship Fund                                                   18,748
Edwin N. Sidman, Newton, Massachusetts
for the Paula and Edwin Sidman Fellows in the Arts Fund, in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           20,000
Howard F. Sims, Detroit
for gifts pending desiation                                                  5,667
Rollin M. SmithTrust B
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       9,435
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          19,564
Thomas H. Snyder, Wilmette, Illinois
for the Wildman, Harrold, Allen & Dixon Fund and other support in the Law School  6,000
Marion B. Sober Estate
for the Frederick D. Sober Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       31,062
J. Clyde Spencer, East Lansing
for the Isadore Lampe Fund in the Medical School                             5,000
George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
for the George E. Jr., and Elizabeth S. Sperling Fund and the Wade H. McCree
Professorship in the Law School                                              5,000
Starr Foundation, New York, New York
6,500 shares of American International Group, Inc., common stock and cash gift
of $3,562.50; for the Starr Project in Asian Painting Conservation in
the Museum of Art                                                          507,719
Mr. and Mrs. Stephen A. Stewart, West Bloomfield
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts the School of Social Work
Building Fung and the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics  5,000
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Port Huron
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration and College
of Engineering                                                              15,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint  8,954
Victor L. Streeter Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Victor L. Streeter Fellowship in the College of Engineering         10,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the TRW Funds in the College of Engineering                             35,000


-160 -



February Meeting, 1991


TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Tandy Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas
for geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Tarus Products, Inc., Sterling Heights
for research in the College of Engineering                                  12,500
Arthur Thurnau Charitable Trust
for the Arthur Thurnau Funds                                               214,903
Robert P. Tiernan, Diablo, California
269 shares of Basic American common stock; for the Wade H. McCree Professorship
in the Law School                                                           13,646
Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
for the Lemuel L.  ing Fellowship in the School of Business Administration   7,500
Mr. and Mrs. Charles J. TrickLivonia
for gifts pending designation                                                5,000
Fred R. and Margaret R. Trucks Trust
1,300 shares of six regional communications companies common stocks and cash
gift of $83 063; for the Fred R. Trucks and Margaret R. Trucks Fund
m the College of Engineering                                               145,455
Constantine A. Tsangadas Estate
for the Post-Classical Greek Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                            12,410
Union Pacific Corporation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 12,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for scholarships, fellowships and other support in the School of Business
Administration and the College of Engineering                               17,500
University of Michigan Diamond Club, Ann Arbor
for support of the Department of Athletics                                   8,000
Upjohn Company Kalamazoo
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  7,075
Varnum Riddering, Schmidt and Howlett, Grand Rapids
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                          30,000
Gail L. Warden, Grosse Pointe
for the health services management and policy in the School of Public Health  5,000
Peter M. Wege East Grand Rapids
for the Peter Martin Wege Memorial Endowment in the Department of Athletics  5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the Doris B. and Frank O. Westover Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               5,000
John R. Worthington, Washington, D.C.
500 shares of MCI Communication, Inc., common stock for unrestricted capital
support of the Law School                                                    9,431
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Clarence J. Boldt, Jr., Birmingham
four Francisco Goya etchings and aquatint prints, "Los Proverbios;" for the Museum of Art
Ellen D. Friedman, Farmington Hills
a Tektronics Graphics display monitor; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, School of
Engineering
Mundy's Sports Medicine Supplies, Novi
two whirlpools with accessories, and a hydrocollator, colpac, and thermostatic water mixing valve
assembly, for the Sports Service Building in memory of Harold Mundy and Charles Pinkston, Sr.
South Lyon Electronics, South Lyon
a 19" television, scanners, CB highway kit, cameras, radio and fire extinguisher; for the
Department of Surgery
Art Swift Pinckney
186 antique albumen photographs and one ink drawing; for the Kelsey Musem and the
Department of the History of Art
Personnel Actions
Provost Whitaker, Vice President Kelly, and Vice President Kennedy pointed
out several noteworthy personnel actions. Regent Baker commented about a sevenyear appointment for a nontenured associate professor, and noted that this was


-161 -



February Meeting, 1991


somewhat unusual. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, and
with an abstention by Regent Baker, the Regents approved the following personnel
actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective on dates indictated
Lysle E. Johnston, Jr., D.D.S., Ph.D., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and the Robert W. Browne
Professor, August 1, 1991
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
James A. Ashton-Miller Ph.D. Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics, January 1, 1991
Lorna McDaniel, Associate Professor of Music, September 1, 1991
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Donald R. Brown, Director of the Center for Research on Learning and Teachin and Professor of
Psychology appointment extended as Director of the Center for Research on Learning and
Teaching, for a two-year period, July 1,1990
James E. Gruber, Assoiate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
and Associate Dean, Division of Interdisciplnary Studies, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Associate
Dean Division of Interdisciplinary Studies, UM-Dearborn, for a six-month period
Joseph E. Sulivan, Associate Professor Emeritus of Electrical and Computer Engieering,
UM-Dearborn, reappointed to active status, winter term
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Khalil H. Mancy, from Professor of Environmental Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor of Environmental
Chemistry with tenure, and Professor of International Health, without tenure, for a five-year
period, February 1 1991
Sarah W. Newman, from Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, to Professor of
Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, and Associate Vice President for Research, for a
three and one-sixth year period, June 1, 1991
Edward D. Rothman, from Professor of Statistics, with tenure, to Professor of Statistics, with tenure, and
Director of the Center for Statistical Consultation and Research, for a five and one-sixth year
period, March 1 1991
Johannes W. Schwank, from Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Interim Chair of the
Department of Chemical Engineering, to Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and
Chair of the Department of Chemical Engineering, for a three-year period, July 1, 1991
Thomas S. Monaghan Visiting Associate Professor. The Regents approved the
appointment of George Suchomel as the Thomas S. Monaghan Visiting Associate
Professor for the winter term, 1991.
George Granger Brown Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering. The
Regents approved the appointment of Bernhard 0. Palsson as the George Grander
Brown Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering for a three-year period, effective
March 1, 1991.


-162 -



February Meeting, 1991


Assistant Dean and Director of External Relations in the College of
Engineering. The Regents approved the establishment of the position of assistant
dean and director of external relations in the College of Engineerng, effective March
1, 1991.
Minor J. Coon Professorship in Biological Chemistry. The Regents approved
the establishment of the Minor J. Coon Professorship in Biological Chemistry,
effective March 1, 1991.
Extensions of leave of absence. The Regents approved extensions of previously
approved leaves of absence for Robert D. Hanson, professor of civil engineering, and
for Jack R. Lohmann, associate professor of industrial and operations engineering.
Associate Vice President for Government Relations. The Regents approved a
change in the title of Thomas A. Butts from Government Relations Officer and
Executive Director of the Washington Office to Associate Vice President for
Government Relations and Executive Director of the Washington Office, effective
March 1, 1991.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Jong-Jin Kim, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture
School of Dentistry
ames P. Lee D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Jean H. Lesch, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
School of Information and Library Studies
Kathleen Garland, Ph.D., Assistnt Professor of Information and Library Studies
Division of Kinesiolov
Melissa G. Hoy, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Movement Science
Clifford Larkins, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Movement Science
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Rosa Q. Huang, Ph.D Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Roberta Kestenbaum, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology, May 1, 1991
Eric B. Patterson, Ph.D  Lecturer in Biology
Edward J. Wisniewski, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
Medical School
Settara Chandrasekharappa, Ph.D. Lecturer in Human Genetics
Victor J. DiRita, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Unit for Laboratory
Animal Medicine, and Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology
Kenneth V. Harvey, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Radiology, December 15,1990
Mary K. Martel, Ph.D., Instructor of Radiation Oncology, January 2, 1991
Amy L. M. O'Donnell M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine
Mack T. Orsborn, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine, December 30, 1990
Blake J. Roessler, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, October 1, 1990
Yoji Shimizu, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology
Enc R. Woods, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
School of Nursing
Jana K. Kress, B.S.N., Lecturer in Nursing


-163 -



February Meeting, 1991


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Medical School
Lawrence B. Holzman, from Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Instructor in Internal Medicine,
January 1, 1991
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Information and Library Studies
Victor Rosenberg, Associate Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January f-December 31, 1991
Division ofKinesiolo-g
Phyllis M. Ocker Associate Director of Women's Athletics and Assistant Professor of Sports
Management and Communication, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 1991
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
William R. Anderson Director of the Herbarium Curator of Vascular Plants, and Professor of Biology,
with tenure, duty off campus, February 15-March 31, 1991
David M. Artis, Instructor in Engish Language and Literature, extended sick leave, January 1 -Mav 31,1991
Emily L. Cloyd, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, extended sick
leave, January 1-May 31 1991
David N. Freedman, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Biblical Studies and Professor of Near
Eastern Studies, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1991
Mark W. Gross, Assistant Professor of Mathematics leave without salary, January 1-May 31, 1991
Gordon L. Kane, Professor of Physics, with tenure, duty off campus, March 1-May 31 1991
Medical School
Allan C. Brown, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, extended sick leave, November 28 -December 20, 1990
Isaac R. Francis, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, extended sick leave, August 27 -October 21, 1990 and sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30 1991
Thomas D. Palella, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
October 2, 1990-February 28, 1991
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Law School
Yale Kamisar Henry King Ransom Professor of Law, cancellation of teaching leave (previously reported
from January 1-May 31, 1991)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Thomas N. McLean, Lecturer in Dentistry January 31, 1991
Margaret E. Stone, Lecturer in Dentistry, December 31, 1990
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Babu P. Vadlamudi, Lecturer in Biology, December 31, 1990
Camille B. Wortman, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, December 31, 1990
Medical School
Mark J. D. Cobby, Lecturer in Radiology, December 31, 1990
Thomas G. Connelly, Associate Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, December 31, 1990
Steven R. Geiringer, Clinical Assistant Professor II of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation,
January 31, 1991
Jack G. Model, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, January 18 1991
Thomas D. Starkey, Instructor in Surgery, December 31, 1990


-164 -



February Meeting, 1991


School of Public Health
Lisa A. Weissfeld, Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, December 31, 1990
Retirement Memoirs
No retirements were reported to the Regents this month.
Memorials
Provost Whitaker noted the death of one faculty member. On a motion by
Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents unanimously adopted the
following memorial:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
January 11, 1991, of Gene Isao Higashi, professor of epidemiology.
Professor Higashi was a distinguished investigator with expertise in parasitology,
immunology, and comparative pathology. Major areas of his research were concerned,
respectively, with the role of the oeosnophil in the host immunologic response to
schistosome parasitic infection, and the development of vaccine-induced immunity in
schistosomiasis, which is a major public health problem in Latin America, Asia, and
Africa.
Professor Higashi was born in Gardena, California, in 1938. He received his
B.A. degree from Swarthmore College in 1960, his M.D. degree from Yale University
in 1964, and his D.Sc. degree from the John Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public
Health in 1973. At the end of his second year of medical education, he received the
Perkins scholarship prize at Yale University, which indicated that he was ranked first
in his class. At graduation from medical school, he was entered into the Alpha Omega
Alpha Honor Medical Society. From 1974-79, Professor Higashi served as head of the
Parasite Immunology Division of the United States Medical Research Unit in Cairo,
Egypt. He joined the University of Michigan Department of Epidemiology as an
associate professor in 1979.
Because of his unique training in parasitology and immunology, Professor
Higashi was called upon to lecture at the School of Medicine and the Residential
College, in addition to his assuming primary responsibilities for the teaching of
parasitology and immunology at the School of Public Health. During the past ten
years, he served as the chair of the committee on graduate education in the
Department of Epidemiology. He was an excellent teacher, and enjoyed the respect
and affection of his students.
Professor Higashi's listing of 100 publications in scientific literature reflects a
broad background of understanding of the epidemiologic and pathogenic implications
of parasitism. He was active in various professional societies, including the American
Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Society of Parasitologists,
the Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, and the American Association of
Immunologists.
Gene Higashi has left an enduring mark on his students and colleagues, both
through his professional accomplishments and his personal qualities of modesty,
dedication, and quiet dignity. As we mourn the loss of this distinguished scholar and
teacher, our condolences go to his wife, Dr. Elizabeth Higashi, and his daughter
Misao.


-165 -



February Meeting, 1991


Degrees
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved several changes to previously approved degree lists. They also
confirmed the degrees granted at the December 1990 commencement exercises.
Henry Russel Award
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of David J. Srolovitz, associate professor of
materials science and engineenng, as the recipient of the 1991 Henry Russel Award.
Semi-Annual Report for Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable
Restricted Fund
The Regents received a schedule summarizing the activity in the Designated
Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund for the six-month
periods ending December 31, 1990, and December 31, 1989.
It being 3:00 P.M., the Regents then met in executive session.
Public Comments
At 4:00 P.M., the Regents reconvened at the Anderson Room of the Michigan
Union for Public Comments. However, students had occupied the Regents' seats and
prevented the Regents from holding their Public Comments session. The meeting
therefore recessed until the following day.
Friday, February 8, 1991
The Regents met in executive session at 8:00 A.M., and reconvened in open
session at 9:30 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President Duderstadt and
Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost
Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Kelly, Swain,
and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Vice
Presidents Cosovich and Johnson were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Professor James
Diana, vice chair of SACUA, to begin the faculty presentation.
Faculty Presentation to the Regents: Global Change
Professor Diana highlighted some of the environmental issues currently under
study by University researchers. He gave a general overview of the various factors that
affect and alter global climate, and pointed out the various disciplines involved in
predicting and measuring the rate of climate change and defining control systems and
policies to reduce sources. He then introduced the three faculty involved in the first of
two projects being presented to the Regents.


-166 -



February Meeting, 1991


Project for the Interdisciplinary Study of Global Change. Professor Diana
introduced three professors involved in the Project for the Interdisciplinary Study of
Global Change: Thomas M. Donahue, the Edward H. White II Distinguished
University Professor of Planetary Science; Gayl D. Ness, professor of sociology and
professor of population planning and international health; and James A. Teeri,
professor of biology and director of the Biological Station. Professors Donahue, Ness,
and Teeri each highlighted some of the important issues of concern in this area, with
each emphasizing his particular disciplinary focus within this project.
Protecting and Improving the Environment, School of Natural Resources.
Professor Diana then introduced three researchers who had prepared poster
presentations about their research in environmental areas. Mr. D. Scott Boven,
communications coordinator of the Michigan chapter of The Nature Conservancy,
described his work on the preservation of coastal sand dunes in Michigan. Ms.
Christie Martin, a student in the School of Natural Resources, described the work of
Patrick C. West, Samuel T. Dana Professor of Outdoor Recreation, about toxic fish
consumption by sports fishermen in Michigan. John A. Witter, professor of forest pest
management, described his study of the effects of an air pollution gradient on northern
hardwood forests in the northern Great Lakes region.
Following the presentations, President Duderstadt commended the work
described by the presenters, and commented on the challenges posed by the effect of
the steadily increasing world population in the face of decreasing ability to provide
adequate food and other resources for them. The presenters then responded to
questions and comments from the Regents about their work.
Regent Baker suggested to Professor Donahue that the issues of global warming
and increasing world population were taking on a national political cast in addition to
being worthy of scientific evaluation. Regent Baker observed that it seemed
important that the University not adopt or be viewed as having adopted a political
position on such issues, but rather would be better served by exploring them in the
traditional scientific manner, including publication of findings and peer review.
Regent Baker stated he was not suggesting that either Professor Donahue or his
associates advocated that the University take a particular political view in these
matters.
Flint Campus Master Plan
Chancellor Jones reported that the University's planning consultant, Johnson
Johnson & Roy, had been working on an update to the Flint campus master plan that
would incorporate the Water Street Pavilion and resulting changes to the boundaries
of the Flint campus, and that would recommend an appropriate site for the proposed
University library. He introduced Mr. Richard Rigterink, who gave a presentation
describing the changes being recommended by Johnson Johnson & Roy. These
include moving the administrative/visitor entrance to the west side of campus near the
pavilion site, and changing the recommended site for the proposed library.
Regent Baker complimented Chancellor Jones and Johnson Johnson & Roy for
their efforts to include in the revised master plan for the Flint campus the long-term
goals of:


-167 -



February Meeting, 1991


1) Obtaining title from the City of Flint to all of the Kearsley Block for exclusive
campus purposes. The Kearsley Block is that area bounded by Kearsley, Saginaw, and
Harrison Streets and the State Office Building Parcel;
2) Obtaining title, for exclusive campus use, to the State of Michigan Office
Building and its one-acre land parcel located northwest of the existing pavilion;
3) Obtaining full title, for exclusive campus use, to the Water Street Parking
Structure, including all 940 parking spaces; and
4) Obtaining full title, for exclusive campus use, to the 25-acre parcel of land,
cleared of all buildings, across the river and north of the present campus, including all
of the river front land.
As Mr. Rigterink began responding to questions from the Regents, the meeting
was interrupted by some audience members, who began shouting.
Regent Nielsen suggested that consideration be given to suspending students
from school who participate in such demonstrations. Regent Baker expressed concern
about the wisdom of such an approach. Regent Brown suggested examining whether
students indeed have opportunities to express their views to the administration.
President Duderstadt responded that this group of individuals contains many of the
same people who had taken over the Public Comments session the day before, thereby
depriving other members of the public from expressing their views. He also said they
had had every opportunity to meet with the administration and the Regents. He
encouraged all groups to respect the rights of others to express their views.
Regent Baker conveyed his belief that there is a small group of people who
move from cause to cause, and said the administration had acted appropriately in
having them removed from the meeting.
The meeting then continued, with Mr. Rigterink responding to questions from
the Regents.
Then, there being no further discussion, Regent Baker moved, seconded by
Regent Nielsen, approval of the work of the consultant on the Flint campus master
plan, as it has progressed thus far, and the new site for the proposed University library.
The motion was unanimously approved.
There followed a short recess.
University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved an amendment to the Declaration of Trust for the University of
Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund, as required by Revenue Ruling 90-103, IRS
Bulletin No. 199-51, dated 12/17/90. The amendment reads as follows:


-168 -



February Meeting, 1991


Amendment to the Declaration of Trust
of the University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income Fund
In accordance with Revenue Ruling 90-103, as published in Internal Revenue Service Bulletin No.
1990-51, dated December 17, 1990 the Declaration of Trust of the University of Michigan Donor Pooled
Income Fund dated January 15, 1975 and amended February 1 1977, is hereby further amended to add the
following provision to be identified henceforth as Article 23.(C). namely:
2.3.(C)  any depreciable or depletable assets, nor invest therein.
Said amendment is made under the authority of Article 6.4 of the Donor Pooled Income
Declaration of Trust to be effective as of February 8, 1991.
Hereafter, 2.3 of Article II of said Declaration of Trust, shall read in its entirety as follows:
2.3  The University or any successor trustee may accept additional funds, securities and
other property from any one or more donors subject to the terms and conditions
of this declaration and shall hold said property for the ultimate benefit
of the University, provided, the trustee's acceptance of property other than cash
or readily marketable securities, is subject to the approval of the Chief Financial
Officer of the University or such other officer of the University designated by the
Board of Regents. Notwithstanding any provision in this agreement to the
contrary, the trustee shall not accept:
(A)      any securities the income from which is exempt from taxes imposed by
subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 or corresponding
provision of any subsequent federal tax law,
(B)      any property against which there is an indebtedness or charge,
(C)      any depreciable or depletable assets, nor invest therein.
Central Power Plant Gas Turbine and Heat Recovery System Energy Conservation
Project —Installation of Second Gas Turbine
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved a project to design and install a second natural gas turbine and
3,500 kilowatt generator, as described in the Regents communication.
FranSois Xavier Bagnoud Building for Aerospace Engineering
Regent Smith moved, seconded by Regent Nielsen, authorization for soliciting
bids for construction of the Franqois Xavier Bagnoud Building for Aerospace
Engineering and awarding the construction contract to the low bidder, provided the
contract value is within the approved budget. The motion was approved unanimously.
Ronald McDonald House Expansion
Vice President Womack introduced Mr. Fred Mayer, University planner, who
gave a presentation describing a project to construct an addition to the Ronald
McDonald House. The project would also involve amending the University's lease
with Arbor House, Inc., owners of Ronald McDonald House, to provide additional
parking spaces necessitated by the addition.
Mr. Mayer and representatives of Arbor House, Inc. responded to questions
from the Regents about the planned addition and about Ronald McDonald House. In
response to a question from Regent Power, it was reported that the McDonald's
Corporation donated start up funds for the original Ronald McDonald House and has
pledged additional donations for the addition. Local McDonald's franchises also


-169 -



February Meeting, 1991


make donations throughout the year. Regent Power expressed thanks to McDonald's
for their generosity on behalf of the Board.
There being no further discussion, Regent Smith moved that the Regents
authorize the proposed addition to the Ronald McDonald House, approve the
amendment to the lease agreement, and authorize the vice president and chief
financial officer to execute the amendment to the lease agreement (see attachment to
the Regents communication). Regent Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved annual classroom renovations and University of Michigan
Hospitals renovation of the Medical Professional Building for ambulatory care
administration, as described in the Regents communication.
1991-92 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
The Regents then returned to this issue, for which a motion had been made and
seconded the previous day. Provost Whitaker suggested that the administration report
to the Regents in October about the specific programming being planned for the
portion of the fee increase designated for the auxiliary activities, and that they report
n February with feedback about the programming.
Regent Smith noted that according to Vice President Swain, the rationale for
merging North Campus Commons and the Michigan Union was to make the students
feel "connected", and asked what the rationale was for merging the Department of
Conferences and Institutes. Vice President Swain responded that this was merely a
transfer of reporting lines, whereas the North Campus Commons and Michigan Union
portion of the merger provided a chance to integrate the living and learning
experience for all students. In response to another question from Regent Smith, it was
noted that this fee would be paid by all students living in University housing, including
family housing apartments and residence halls.
Regent Smith moved, as a substitute to Regent Nielsen's original motion, that
the proposed residence hall and family housing rate increase be decreased by 0.5 per
cent. Regent Baker seconded the motion. Regent Smith commented that assessing
only students who live in University housing for the merger of the auxiliary units is
discriminatory, and that it would be more equitable if this funding came from the
General Fund and the programs be open to anyone.
Regent Baker said he believed that the proposed programming, which would be
incorporated into students' educational program and encourage the idea among
students of participating in the community, is worthwhile and sound, but he did not
think it wise to levy fees for this on all students, when only some would benefit. It was
pointed out that the General Fund is funded mostly from tuition, so that this position
is contradictory.
Following further comments, the vote was taken on Regent Smith's motion, and
it failed, with Regents Baker, Nielsen, and Smith in favor and Regents Brown, McFee,
Power, Varner, and Waters opposed.


-170 -



February Meeting, 1991


The president then called for a vote on Regent Nielsen's original motion, which
called for approval of the recommended rates, but with the 0.5% portion subject to
separate review after one year. Regent McFee requested that the progress reports on
the programs contain specific figures about the demographics of the students who
participate, as well as other specific information which will be useful in evaluating the
programs' effectiveness.
The vote was then taken on Regent Nielsen's original motion, and it carried,
with Regents Brown, Nielsen, McFee, Power, Varner, and Waters in favor, and
Regents Baker and Smith opposed.
Master of Science in Anesthesia Degree at the University of Michigan-Flint
Chancellor Jones noted that this proposal had generated enthusiastic
endorsements from all internal and external review committees, and had received a
glowing evaluation from an on-site accrediting team. He noted that Chancellor Wong,
Mr. Dan George from Hurley Medical Center, and Dr. Suzanne Selig, coordinator of
UM-Flint's School of Health Professions and Studies, were present to respond to
questions.
Regent Nielsen moved approval of granting the Master of Science in Anesthesia
Degree at the University of Michigan-Flint, and asked why the nurse anesthesia
program at the Ann Arbor campus had been terminated several years ago. Dr.
Zuidema responded that when the Ann Arbor program was terminated in 1985, the
option to relocate it to Flint had not been well-received, and that the medical center
on the Ann Arbor campus is very supportive of this proposed new program. He
explained that the previous program had been terminated because it was not a priority
of the residency program in the Department of Anesthesiology, and because the
School of Nursing was not interested in offering a master's degree in anesthesia at that
time.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
Faculty Code of the School of Health Professions and Studies, University of MichiganFlint
On a motiby Regent Baker, seconded by Regent ecVarner, the Regents
unanimously approved the faculty code of the School of Health Professions and
Studies at the Umversity of Michigan-Flint.
Telephone Replacement Project
Vice President Womack noted that after the telephone replacement project had
been installed and was in operation, additional costs were incurred. The value of the
additional equipment had now been determined, and increasing the authorized project
budget would allow the project to be brought to completion.
Regent Smith moved authorization to increase the budget for the telephone
replacement project to $43,340,000 to cover the increased cost of the telephone
replacement project. Regent Varner seconded the motion.


-171 -



February Meeting, 1991


Regent Baker said that he intended to oppose the motion, because the price of
the project had clearly been stated at the outset and did not require a change.
The vote was then taken, and the motion carried, with Regents Brown, Nielsen,
McFee, Power, Smith, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent Baker opposed.
Hewlett Foundation Challenge Grant
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted
unanimously to take the following actions regarding the Hewlett Foundation challenge
grant for undergraduate education, identified in the foundation records as grant
number 87-6938:
The Regents reaffirmed their acceptance of certain gifts, already received and
accepted by them between November 1987 and September 1990, on the terms and
conditions under which they were solicited, received, and accepted, for the agreed
upon purpose of meeting the matching qualification standards for the Hewlett
Foundation grant. They also affirmed their understanding that these gifts, and any
future gifts solicited, received, and accepted for this purpose, which qualify for the
Hewlett matching funds, are and will be committed as permanent endowment funds
for the University.
Amendment of Policy Regarding Fee Refunds, Academic Credit, and Readmission
Priority for Students Entering Military Service
Vice President Swain explained that in a series of actions taken in 1940, 1941,
1950, 1968, and 1976, the Regents had adopted and revised policies regarding fee
refunds, academic credit, and readmission priority for "students who enter active
military service of the United States and as a consequence thereof withdraw from the
University...". These policies, allowing prorated tuition, prorated or equitable credit
for work completed, and priority consideration for readmission upon termination of
service, are now in effect and have been applied to students who have withdrawn from
the University because they have been called to serve in the U.S. forces during the
Persian Gulf crisis.
Because of the internationalization of the University, the question has arisen as
to whether these policies should continue to be restricted to students who withdraw to
serve in the U.S. military. This is a proposal to revise the policies so they apply
equally to all students who withdraw for active military duty with any legitimate
national government. The proposal also recommends that students who leave for
military service receive a full refund if they disenroll within the first three weeks of the
semester, as is currently the policy for students who disenroll for other reasons.
Several Regents commented that it would be inappropriate for such a policy to
apply to foreign nationals whose countries are engaged in hostilities against the United
States. It was therefore decided to table this request and in the interim, to decide
requests for exceptions to the policy on a case by case basis.
Reports
Vice President Kelly noted that on the report of Projects Established —Research
and Other Academic Activities, December 1, 1990, through January 31, 1991, the


-172 -



February Meeting, 1991


number of awards and the total amount of the awards, as well as the amount of
research expenditures and indirect cost recoveries were all ahead of the figures for the
same period a year ago.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on March 14-15, 1991. Regents accommodation, transportation, and
miscellaneous expenses for the month of January 1991 totalled $1,879.85.
ichard L. ennedy, Secreary


-173 -



MARCH MEETING, 1991


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 14, 1991
The Regents met at 1:40 P.M. in the Music Room of the Henry Ford EstateFair Lane on the campus of the University of Michigan-Dearborn. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, and
Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Cosovich,
Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors Jones and
Wilson. Provost Whitaker arrived at 2:45 P.M.; Regent Waters was absent.
Annual Report on Investments
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Vice President
Womack to introduce the Annual Report on Investments for the calendar year 1990.
Vice President Womack introduced Mr. David Thurston of Cambridge Associates, the
University's investment consultant, and Mr. Norman Herbert, investment officer.
Mr. Herbert announced that with regard to the Donor Pooled Income Fund,
the University's income objectives have been met, and that the real value of the
endowment fund has been maintained over the 10 years ended December 31, 1990.
He also reported that the National Bank of Detroit, with the University's
encouragement, had raised the level of its equity investment for the Donor Pooled
Income Fund from about 45 per cent to about 52 per cent over the course of the year.
The return on the University Investment Pool compared favorably with the average
return for money market mutual funds.
Turning to the University Endowment Fund, Mr. Herbert reported on progress
since December 31, 1990, in commitments made and distributions received in the
areas of oil and natural gas, and in reorganization investments. He then turned the
floor over to Mr. Thurston to discuss the 1990 performance.
Referring to a handout he had distributed, Mr. Thurston noted that the 10 year
average annual compound rate of return on the University's Endowment Fund was
10.9 per cent, compared to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) of 4.3 per cent. Mr.
Thurston reaffirmed the University's asset allocation policy of maintaining a high
equity exposure of 70 per cent; diversifying into real estate, venture capital, and oil
and gas to reduce volatility and increase return; averaging gradually into these
alternative equity assets; and hedging the common stock portfolio with the strategic
asset allocation program, which will be discontinued when the endowment is more
diversified in both alternative equity assets and common stock.
Mr. Thurston pointed out graphs in the handout that illustrated the deleterious
effects of attempting to time the market, over the short-term and the long-term. He
also presented historical evidence that in the long run, the stock market outperforms
the bond market, and said that for that reason, it is important to be fully invested.
Finally, he noted the importance of diversification in protecting the endowment from
extremes in short-term performance.


-175 -



March Meeting, 1991


In the area of common stock management, referring to a chart showing the
comparative performance of the University's equity investment managers, he said that
in the long term, the University's value-oriented strategy would outperform Standard
& Poors, but that there would be significant periods of underperformance over shorter
periods of time. The goal is to have more balance within the portfolio so that there
will not be extended periods of underperformance. The current plan is to maintain
the "value" emphasis, replace underperforming value managers, maintain the small
capitalization emphasis, diversify by averaging into foreign stocks, and diversify by
adding to "growth" stocks after the expected "value" rebound.
Mr. Thurston, Mr. Herbert, and Vice President Womack then responded to
comments and questions from the Regents about specific aspects of the investment
report.
Audit Report: University of Michigan Donor Pooled Fund for Years Ended
December 31, 1990 and 1989
Following the discussion of the investment report, Vice President Womack
presented the Donor Pooled Fund Audit Report for Years Ended December 31, 1990
and 1989. Vice President Womack and Mr. Herbert responded to questions and
comments from the Regents about this report. Then, there being no further questions,
the Regents voted unanimously to accept the audit report.
University of Michigan Hospitals Comparative Statistic Report
President Duderstadt then introduced Mr. John Forsyth, executive director of
University of Michigan Hospitals, who gave a slide presentation covering three major
components of the hospitals' financial performance: profitability, liquidity, and capital
structure, for the last five years' average and for the fiscal year ending 1989-90. These
ratios were compared to the performance of three groups of hospitals: the Standard &
Poors "AA" rated hospitals, other teaching hospitals, and an average of all hospitals.
He also presented graphs comparing the University of Michigan Hospitals' patient
activity statistics with those of other teaching hospitals and hospitals with over four
hundred beds.
Mr. Forsyth reported that University of Michigan Hospitals compares favorably
in all categories nationally except for profitability. This is because the University's
hospitals 1) support the academic mission of the medical school to a far greater degree
than do most other institutions; 2) have budgeted in the past for a break even
operating budget; 3) received only about $.69 per dollar cost in Medicaid and
Medicare reimbursements; and 4) experienced a reduction in bottom line of about $9
million due to a nursing strike the previous year. He reported that the figures would
have been much more favorable had the strike not occurred.
During the course of his presentation, Mr. Forsyth responded to questions and
comments from the Regents about specific aspects of the hospitals' performance.
UM-Dearborn Campus Development Plan
President Duderstadt then called on Chancellor Wilson to introduce a revision
of the 1990 UM-Dearborn Campus Development Plan. Chancellor Wilson introduced


-176 -



March Meeting, 1991


Mr. Richard Rigterink, of Johnson Johnson & Roy, who reported that the Regents'
desire to protect the angles of view from the Henry Ford Estate and to provide
additional landscape buffers around the estate had led to proposed revisions in the
plan. These revisions would strengthen the visual open space link between the Henry
Ford Estate and the rest of campus by enlarging the open space area around the estate
and providing additional landscaped buffer zones for the edges adjacent to the open
space around the estate.
In the discussion that followed Mr. Rigterink's presentation, the Regents
indicated that the revised plan was responsive to their concerns. On a motion by
Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents unanimously approved the
UM-Dearbom Campus Development Plan 1990 Update.
Minutes
Consideration of the minutes of the meeting of February 14-15, 1991, was
delayed until the following day.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory and Performance as of December 31, 1990,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. Vice President Kelly
submitted reports of Projects Established —Research and Other Academic Activities
and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored Projects.
Vice President Womack commented on the investment report and responded to
questions from the Regents. Following the discussion, on a motion by Regent Nielsen,
seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted a Summary Report, Detail Report, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of February 1991. The Regents
received the following gifts with thanks and in accordance with their terms and
conditions:
ASDA Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                   150,000
Randolph J. and Judith A. Agley Foundation, Roseville
for the Randolph J. Agley Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  25,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and the College of Pharmacy                                102,869
American Chemical Society Washington, D.C.
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts  59,000
American Diabetes Association- Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                    14,500
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                            14,750
American Heart Association Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                    16,945
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                   102,789
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                            5,405


-177 -



March Meeting, 1991


Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        13,667
Association of American Railroads, Washington, D.C.
for physical stress research and other support in the College of Engineering  35,000
W. Timothy Baetz, Chicago, Illinois
200 shares of Anthem Electronics common stock; for unrestricted capital support
of the Law School                                                              5,038
Basic American Foods, San Francisco, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    15,016
Henri Beaufour Institute (USA), Inc., Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School                                             8,100
Bell Communications Research, Inc., Livingston, New Jersey
for support in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts     6,450
Norman R. Bodine, Birmingham
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Borman's Inc., Detroit
four State of Israel Bonds; for unrestricted capital support of the School
of Business Administration                                                    32,400
Leo Burnett Company, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                       10,300
David L. Chambers, Jr. Deray Beach, Florida
for support of tie Law School                                                  5,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                             9,582
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources, and the Institute for Social
Research, and for Employee Matching Gifts                                     30,200
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   14,234
Margaret H. Coudron, Ypsilanti
for the Coudron Acquisition Fund in the Museum of Art                          5,000
Dayton's/Marshall Field's/Hudson's, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for research in the Medical School                                             5,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            10,000
Peter C. Dendrinos, Traverse City
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                20,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            10,000
Charles DeVlieg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in the College of Engineering      26,000
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                 7,250
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts     8,577
Herbert H. & Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
for Chemical Sciences Facilities in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  200,000
Jeffrey Drobek Estate
for the Joseph and Anna Drobeck Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                         35,000
Gunter Dufey, Ann Arbor
100 shares of Circus Circus common stock; for the International Business Faculty
Fund in the School of Business Administration                                  6,094
Earl-Beth Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the University of Michigan-Flint, College of Arts and Sciences             5,000
Eastman Kodak Charitable Trust, Rochester, New York
for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering             5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   10,800
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering                                    90,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering, and for the University of Michigan-Dearborn  14,307
Richard T. Garrett, Bay Village, Ohio
1,000 shares of Kellogg Corporation common stock; for the Richard T. and
Marilyn Holtom Garrett Fund in the Medical School                             82,313
General Mills, Inc Minneapolis, Minnesota
for research and other support in the College of Engineering                   7,000


-178 -



March Meeting, 1991


General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for special aid in the Law School                                            20,000
German Marshall Fund of the United States Washington, D.C.
for the Fund for Communication in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  14,500
Eugene M. Grant & Company Real Estate Management, New York, New York
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund m the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 40,000
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
16.37 shares of Harris Family Investment Company common stock; for the Jill S.
Harris Memorial Endowment Fund                                               10,000
Hoechst Celanese Corporation Somerville, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           50,000
David Dyer Hunting Jr Grand Rapids
508 shares of IBMi Corporation common stock; for the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        60,452
Huntington's Disease Society of America, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            7,500
James W. Hyde Paris, Kentucky
for the Class of 1904 Scholarship in the Law School, in memory of Emory J. Hyde  5,000
IBM Canada, Ltd, Markham, Ontario, Canada
for computer science research in the College of Engineering                  25,000
I.C.C.E./National Educational Computing Conference, Eugene, Oregon
for media text research in the College of Engineering                         6,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           29,773
KPMG Peat Marwick Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,350
Barbara Brattin Kacir, Cleveland, Ohio
for the William J. Brattin Scholarship Endowment in the Law School            5,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and for Employee Matching Gifts  31,334
Milton A. and Charlotte R. Kramer Foundation, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for special aid in the Law School                                            20,000
Richard P. Kughn, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               25,000
Mary E. LaBour-Trust
for the School of Music, and the Delta Omicron Scholarship                  951,965
L.S.B. Leakey Foundation, Pasadena, California
for anthropology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  6,500
Walter Lorenz Surgical nstruments Inc., Jacksonville, Florida
for the Chalmers J. Lyons Chair in the School of Dentistry                    5,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Public Health                                 165,000
Mallinckrodt Sensor Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             13,750
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School, and the Institute of Gerontology         10,000
Zelpha E. McKinnon Trust, Flint
for the Library/Learning Resources Center, the University of Michigan-Flint  100,000
John D. McLaughlin Estate
for classical studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,344
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn                                      25,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Minority and Female Scholarship Support in the College of Engineering  5,000
Van B. Monroe, Royal Oak
264 shares of Amgen Corporation common stock; for scholarships and golf course
restoration in the Department of Athletics                                   23,751
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           23,750
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                           26,442
Nissan Research & Development, Inc. Plymouth
for research in the College of Engineering                                   10,000
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School, and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                         6,000


-179 -



March Meeting, 1991


Elizabeth J. and Richard Robinson, Sarasota, Florida
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Elizabeth L. Robinson and
Eva E. Robinson                                                              22,700
Rockwell International Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
for Manufacturing Initiatives and Aerospace Construction in the College of
Engineering, andfor Employee Matching Gifts                                 100,750
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             13,435
Jonathan Rye, Birmingham
for the Growth Fund in the School of Business Administration                 20,000
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc. Madison, New Jersey
Tor Employee Matching difts                                                  10,430
Shokichi Shimoji, Okinawa, Japan
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000
Smithkline Beecham Foundation Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,075
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           27,291
Ruth and Frank Stanton Fund, New York New York
for the Burton Benjamin Fellowship in Broadcast Journalism in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies                                            5,000
Helmut Stern Foundation, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  60,000
Tecumseh Products Company Tecumseh
for research in the Coilege of Engineering                                    5,400
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund #2,New York, New York
for the Preston R. Tisch Professorship in Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                       100,000
Union Carbide Corporation, Danbury, Connecticut
for the Union Carbide Fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering  21,000
Union Pump Company, Battle Creek
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            6,083
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for the Ann Arbor University of Michigan Club Scholarship                    12,051
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  10,072
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for the Whirpool Research Fund and other research support in the College of
Engineering                                                                  45,000
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Frank 0. and Doris B. Westover Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               16,000
Xerox Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for macromolecular research in the College of Engineering                    10,000
Zenith Insurance Company, Encino, California
for Cumulative Trauma Disorders Research in the College of Engineering       20,000
The following non monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Alfred Berkowitz, Birmingham
75 pieces of Baccarat crystal and two antique Lung Ch'ing Dynasty figures; for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, Permanent Art Collection
William M. and Mimi B. Borowy, Holly
Jim Clary's remarqued print, entitled: "USS Michigan;" for the University of Michigan-Flint
Winifred Boak Comlossy, Fort Myers, Florida
ancient objects: seven green glass bowls from the Roman Period, and four bowls of lusterware,
pottery or ceramic, of Islamic origin; for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
GMC Truck Division~ General Motors Corporation, Pontiac
a 1991 C/K pickup truck; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, School of Engineering
Intel Corporation, Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
two numeric co-processors; for the University of Michigan-Flint, School of Management
John Mitani, Ann Arbor
two Sony cassette recorders; for the Department of Anthropology
Mrs. Schuyler Pyne, Annapolis, Maryland
gift of manuscripts and printed Americana, primarily Eighteenth and Nineteenth centuries; for the
Clements Library


-180 -



March Meeting, 1991


Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Claudia Kent, Ph.D., Professor of Biological Chemistry, July 1, 1991
Eric R. P. Zuiderweg, Ph.D., Professor of Biological Chemistry, April 1, 1991
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Elaine K. Gazda Professor of Classical Art and Archaeology, with tenure, and Director of the
Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, reappointed Director of the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, for
a five-year period
Gerald P. Hodge, Professor Emeritus of Medical and Biological Illustration and Professor Emeritus of
Art, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period, January 1,1991
John A. Jacquez,Professor Emeritus of Physiology and Professor Emeritus of Biostatistics, reappointed
to active status, for a one-year period, March 1, 1991
Diane M. Kirkpatrick, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of History of
Art reappointed Chair of the Department of History of Art, for a three-year period
Robert L. kyes, Professor of German, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Germanic Languages
and Literatures, reappointed Chair of the Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures,
for a three-year period, July 1, 1992
Eugene W. Nissen, Assistant Dean for Student Academic Affairs, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, reappointed Assistant Dean for Student Academic Affairs, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, for a four-year period
Thomas M. Sawyer, Professor Emeritus of Humanities, reappointed to active status, winter term,
January 1, 1991
William S. Smith, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period,
March 1, 1991
Robert D. Vinter, Arthur Dunham Professor Emeritus of Social Work, reappointed to active status, for a
four-month period May 1, 1991
Myron E. WegmanDean Emeritus, School of Public Health, John G. Searle Professor Emeritus of Public
Healtfh and Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
reappointed to active status, spring/summer term, May 1, 1991
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Frederick R. Amrine, from Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure,
to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and Interim Chair of
the Department of Germanic Languages and Literatures, for a one-year period
George R. Carignan, from Interim Associate Dean for Research, College of Engineering, to Associate
Dean for Graduate Education Research, College of Engineering, for a two-year period,
February 1 1991
John G. Cross, from Professor of Economics, with tenure and Associate Dean for Academic
Appointments, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Professor of Economics, with
tenure, and Associate Dean for Budget and Administration, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts for a two-year period
William D. Drafe, from Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation with tenure, School of Natural
Resources, and Professor of Population Planning and International Health without tenure School
of Public Health, to Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation with tenure Schoof of
Natural Resources Professor of Population Planning and International Health, without tenure,
School of Public H'ealth, and Professor of Urban, Technological, and Environmental Planning,
without tenure, College of Architecture and Urban Planning, for a three-year period.181 -



March Meeting, 1991


Paul B. Hays, from Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced Technology, Professor of Aerospace
Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Amos ri  Oceamc, and Space Sciences, with
tenure, to Dwight F. Benton Professor of Advanced Tecnology, Professor of Aerospace
Engineering, wJth tenure Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with
tenure and Chair of the bepartment of Atmospheric, Oceaic, and Space Sciences, for a
three-year period, March 1, 1991
Richard M. Laine rom Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure
College of Engineering, to Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure
College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, an the Arts, for a five-year period, September 1, 1991
Michael M. Martin from Professof       wih tenure, to Professor of BBioogy, with tenure and
Associate Dean for Long-Range Planing, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, fr a
three-year period
Gernot L Windfuhr, from Professor of Iranian Studies, with tenure, to Professor of Iranian Studies,
with tenure, and Acting Chair of the Department of Near Eastern Studies, fall term,
September 1, 1991
Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies. The Regents
approved the appointment of Leila Avrin as the Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting
Professor of Judaic Studies for the fall term, 1991.
T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics. The Regents
approved the appointment of Zhongmin Shen as the T. H. Hildebrandt Research
Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for the term September 1, 1991, through May 31,
1993.
Minor J. Coon Professor of Biological Chemistry. The Regents approved the
appointment of Jack E. Dixon as the Minor J. Coon Professor of Biological Chemistry,
effective July 1, 1991.
Arthur F. Thurnau Professors. The Regents approved the following
appointments as Arthur F. Thurnau Professors, for three-year periods, effective July 1,
1991: William James Adams, professor of economics; Susan Boehm, associate
professor of nursing; Jean P. Krisch, associate professor of physics; Donald J. Sinta,
professor of music; and Ralph G. Williams, associate professor of English language
and literature.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistrv
George Moricz, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry
Roger C. Smith, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, September 1, 1990
Mary M. Vickerman, D.M.D., Lecturer in Dentistry
Collee of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Robin E. Wells, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics
Medical School
Wendy E. Scales, Ph.D., Lecturer in Surgery, February 1, 1991
School of Nursing
David L. Kahn, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, August 1, 1990
UM-Dearbon School of Education
Joan M. Brown, M.S., Lecturer in Education


-182 -



March Meeting, 1991


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Natural Resources
Raymond K. DeYoung, Ph.D., from Lecturer in Natural Resources to Assistant Professor of Natural
Resources, January 1, 1991
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Patricia A. Bauer, Lecturer in Dentistry, military leave, January 25, 1991-January 24, 1992
School of Education
Betty M. Morrison, Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough, February 1, 1991 -January 31, 1992
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Martin G. Gold, Professor of Psychology, retirement furlough, January 1, 1991 -December 31, 1992
Medical School
Ralph B. Blasier, Assistant Professor of Surgery, military leave, January 1-June 30, 1991
Andrew Flint, Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1991
Irwin J. Goldstein Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, duty off campus, January 14 -February 20, 1991
Richard F. Haines, Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, retirement furlough, February 1 -April 30, 1987, and January 1-September 30, 1991
Janice Larouere, Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, medical leave, October 7 1990-January 2, 1991
Harold A. Oberman, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 1991
Chintana Paramagul, Clinical Instructor II-m Radiology, extended sick leave, December 7, 1990 -January28, 1991
Carol G. Ragsdale, Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-March 31, 1991
Andrew J. Zweifler, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, sabbatical leave, March 1 -August 31, 1991
School of Nursing
Betty J. Davis, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, extended sick leave, February 15 -February 28, 1991
UM-Dearbornm College of Arts, Sciences. and Letters
John H. Lewis, Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, extended sick leave, January 22 -April 30, 1991
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Johannes Tall, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1991 -May 31, 1992
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Medical School
Kate F. Barald, Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, sabbatical leave, changed to January 1 -December 31, 1991 (previously reported as December 23, 1990-December 22, 1991)
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Bernard W. Klein, Professor ofPolitical Science, with tenure, retirement furlough, changed to
September 1, 1992-April 30, 1993 (previously reported as September 1, 1991-April 30, 1992)


-183 -



March Meeting, 1991


TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Susan E. Heckler, Assistant Professor of Marketing, December 31, 1990
Colleae of Enoneerin
William F. Maloney, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, December 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Walter R. Alen, Professor of Socilogy, with tenure, May 31, 1991
Pascale H. Bielek, Lecturer in French December 31, 1990
Rachael A. Crisco, Lecturer in French, December 31, 1990
Peter B. Machinist, Associate Professor of Biblical Studies, December 31, 1990
Karen O. Mason, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, May 31, 1991
William M. Mason, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, May 31, 1991
Tokiko Oshiro, Lecturer in Asian Languages and Cultures, December 31, 1990
Medical School
George J. Siegel, Professor of Neurology, with tenure, January 31, 1991
Retirement Memoir
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoir:
Curtis Van Voorhees, professor of education, retired from active faculty status
on December 31, 1990, after 20 years of service to the University of Michigan.
Professor Van Voorhees received his B.S. degree in 1957 from Western
Michigan University, his M.S. degree in 1961 from Northern Illinois University, and
his Ed.D. degree in 1968 from Michigan State University. Between 1957 and 1966, he
worked as a teacher, principal, and head of counseling in Michigan schools and for two
years (1963-65) as an assistant principal/counselor at Chofu High School, an overseas
dependent school in Japan. He was a Mott intern from 1966-67, and then served as
associate professor at Ball State University from 1969-71, with visiting professor
assignments at Bowling Green State University in 1969 and Oregon State University in
1971.
In 1971, Professor Van Voorhees joined the University of Michigan as professor
of education and assumed the directorship of the University's Mott Fellow Program.
In 1974, when the C. S. Mott Foundation awarded a major grant to the University of
Michigan to develop a research program on community education, Professor Van
Voorhees was appointed to head this effort as director of the Office of Community
Education Research. Over a four-year period, Professor Van Voorhees and his staff
conducted studies on community education in communities of different sizes and
socio-economic make-up throughhout the United States. They identified leadership
skills and the training necessary to acquire these skills and studied the relationship of
community education to the development of schools and local communities. The
results of these studies were reported in a series of monographs published by the
Office of Community Education, with support from the Lilly Foundation and the
Rockefeller Foundation. He also participated in research sponsored by the National
Institutes of Health and the Kellogg Foundation.
Among Professor Van Voorhees' other research interests were educational
leadership and educational finance. Because of his expertise and communication
skills, he was often called upon to speak before teacher and administrator groups. He
has acted as consultant to numerous school boards in the United States and Canada
and to corporations such as Proctor and Gamble, General Motors, Ford Motor
Company, Crain Communications, and Ashland Oil.


-184 -



March Meeting, 1991


The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Curtis Van Voorhees
Professor Emeritus of Education.
Memorials
No memorials were reported to the Regents this month. However, Regent
Power noted the death of James Meisel, professor emeritus of political science, and
distributed copies of a memorial statement he had written in his honor.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists.
Appointment of Auditors for 1990-91
Regent Power moved, Regent McFee seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, the reappointment of Ernst & Young as auditors for 1990-91. Vice
President Womack noted that this will be the fifth year of this engagement.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report of the Board in
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan for the Year Ended
June 30, 1990
Vice President Womack noted that the supplemental information to the Board
in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics certified audited financial report is presented in
compliance with the requirements of the National Collegiate Athletic Association
(NCAA).
There followed a discussion about the necessity for audits of booster and alumni
organizations. Mr. Carl Smith, director of University audits, explained that the
NCAA's purpose was to provide University presidents with a more complete
understanding of the funding of intercollegiate athletic programs. Vice President
Womack noted that it was likely that in the future the NCAA would have even a
greater interest in any kind of financial activity that has any bearing whatsoever on an
intercollegiate athletic program.
Regent Nielsen said that he resented the intrusion into the activities of clubs
that are not part of the University, and that the clubs should not have to have their
finances disclosed in public documents. Mr. Smith noted that Ernst & Young does not
actually audit the books of these organizations. The procedure is that the athletic
director provides the auditors with a list of the organizations that provide funds in
support of the athletic department, per NCAA guidelines. The auditors then confirm
with the clubs what they have provided, either through direct donations or indirectly
through sponsorship of activities in support of the athletic department. Regent
Nielsen reiterated his opinion that this was an unnecessary intrusion into the clubs'
activities, and further discussion ensued. Regent Brown pointed out that by virtue of
belonging to the NCAA, the University has to abide by its rules, and the only way to
change them would be to work through that organization.


-185 -



March Meeting, 1991


It was suggested that President Duderstadt pursue the matter by reporting on
the background and history of these auditing requirements. Vice President Womack
pointed out that in instituting these requirements, the NCAA was attempting to
control some real abuses that have occurred at other institutions, whereby entire
athletic programs were being run by organizations entirely external to the institution.
President Duderstadt stated that he would follow up on the Regents' recommendation
that he report on the background behind the NCAA audit requirements, and that the
booster organizations be advised of the Regents' concerns regarding the scope of the
information they provide.
Land Exchange with Department of Natural Resources
This item was withdrawn from the agenda.
College of Pharmacy Laboratory Addition
Regent Brown moved, Regent Nielsen seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, award of a construction contract for the College of Pharmacy laboratory
addition to the low bidder, MSI.
Renovation/Construction/Demolition Projects
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the following projects: Mary Markley Hall student room
rehabilitation; demolition of the Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Hospital Building;
and replacement of the air handling systems and construction of a mechanical
penthouse at the Kellogg Eye Center.
Water Street Pavilion Renovation Project
Chancellor Jones pointed out that approval was being sought to authorize the
award of a contract for renovation of the Water Street Pavilion to the low bidder,
Elgin Builders, Inc. In response to a question from Regent Baker, he explained that
the administration would be housed on the second floor of the pavilion, which would
release space in the Classroom Office Building for classroom and faculty office space.
Regent Nielsen moved authorization of the construction contract for renovation
of the Water Street Pavilion to Elgin Builders, Inc. Regent Power seconded the
motion. In response to a request from Regent Brown that the Regents be presented
with detailed plans for the renovation project, it was decided to delay action on the
motion until the following day.
933, 945, 1035, and 1047 Wall Street
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved purchase of the properties at 933, 945, 1035, and 1047 Wall
Street.


-186 -



March Meeting, 1991


Proposed Research Subcontract Between the University of Michigan and Michigan
Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
Regent Smith moved, seconded by Regent Power, approval of a subcontract
between the University of Michigan and Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. and
participation of University faculty and staff members in the subcontract. The motion
was approved unanimously by all seven Regents present. Because the owners of the
company, Robert H. Bartlett, J. Patrick Montoya, and Scott Merz, are also University
employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1. Parties to the agreement will be Michigan Critical Care Consultants,
Inc., and the Regents of the University of Michigan.
2. The proposed agreement is a standard University research contract
without intellectual property terms. A license agreement covering
intellectual property already disclosed to the University by the
owners/employees is being discussed and will be presented for
Regental approval at a later meeting. There are no restrictions on
publication or openness of the research. The project involves the
testing of a pump system design and the development of a safe and
least hemolytic blood driver for use in extracorporeal circulation and
other therapeutic applications. No human or animal subjects will be
used in the research.
The subcontract will cover laboratory supplies and equipment use
charges totalling $5,000 over an eleven month period. Dr. Bartlett will
supervise the project and act as project director. Dr. Montaya and Mr.
Merz will conduct the studies. Bartlett, Montaya, and Merz will not be
reimbursed for their time on the project as University employees.
3. The total grant to Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc., is $44,544.
Dr. Montaya and Mr. Merz each receive a salary as employees of the
company. Dr. Bartlett participates as president of the company
without compensation. Bartlett, Montaya, and Merz each own onethird of the company.
Public Comments
Following a brief recess, the Regents heard comments from Roger Faulkner,
citizen, about potential University participation in the 1994 World Cup Soccer
Competition.
The meeting then recessed until the following day.
Friday, March 15, 1991
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, Varner, and


-187 -



March Meeting, 1991


Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson.
Faculty Presentation to the Regents: Dr. Francis Collins
Dr. Zuidema introduced Dr. Francis Collins, professor of internal medicine and
professor of human genetics. Dr. Collins gave a slide presentation about genetic
disease and the work being done in his laboratory and elsewhere at the University of
Michigan to identify the specific defects that cause certain genetic diseases and then
devise treatments for them. He then responded to questions from the Regents.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of February 14-15, 1991.
Water Street Pavilion Renovation Project
Chancellor Jones reported that there has been a severe shortage of space on the
Flint campus for some time, and that there had been extensive discussion and
consensus on the campus about the proposed uses of the Water Street Pavilion. He
then introduced Mr. Dick Canfield, of the architectural firm of SSOE, who led the
architectural design team for the renovation project.
Mr. Canfield distributed a handout illustrating the proposed plans for the
renovation, which include retail space and a book store on the first floor and
administrative offices on the second floor. He and Chancellor Jones then responded
to questions and comments from the Regents. Following the discussion, the Regents
unanimously approved Regents Nielsen and Power's motion from the previous day,
authorizing the award of the construction contract to Elgin Builders, Inc.
Acquisition of Water Street Pavilion and Two Units in Pavilion's Parking Deck
Chancellor Jones and Vice President Womack informed the Regents about
certain conditions imposed on the University by virtue of the fact that federal
Community Development Block Grant funds had been used for part of the original
developmental budget of the Water Street Pavilion. These conditions relate to the
employment of low and moderate income persons for a portion of the new jobs
created by the University's use of the building and reimbursement to HUD of certain
funds should the University sell the Water Street Pavilion Project before 1998 (see the
Regents communication for specific details). They noted that none of the conditions
would create any problem for the University.
Restructuring of the Population Studies Center
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved a recommendation to change the Population Studies Center
from a unit within the department of sociology reporting to the chair of sociology to an
autonomous unit within the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reporting
directly to the dean of the college. This change will take effect July 1, 1991. The


-188 -



March Meeting, 1991


director of the Population Studies Center will be nominated by the dean for approval
by the Board of Regents, and the executive committee of the Population Studies
Center will be appointed by the dean from a list of nominees prepared by the center
director.
Renaming of the Center for Near Eastern and North African Studies
Regent Nielsen moved, Regent McFee seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, changing the name of the Center for Near Eastern and North African
Studies to the Center for Middle Eastern and North African Studies.
Academic Calendars: 1992-93 and 1993-94, All Three Campuses
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the academic calendars for the 1992-93 and 1993-94 academic
years for the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses.
Membership in Intelligent Vehicle Highway Society of America (IVHS America)
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved membership in the Intelligent Vehicle Highway Society of
America.
Membership for Dental School Faculty Members in Various Dental Organizations
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved memberships for the following faculty members in the
American Dental Association and Michigan Dental Association: Richard Fisher,
Janice Wilmot, Robert Ellison, Stephen Feinberg, Jackson Linger, Christian Stohler,
Sven Widmalm, Hom-Lay Wang, Martha Somerman, Walter Bretz, Kenneth
Carpenter, Donald Heys, Ronald Heys, Gary Hildebrandt, Leopold Klausner, William
Knight, Wayne Wolcott, and Peter Yaman. They also approved membership in the
American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons for Stephen Feinberg and in
the American Association of Orthodontists for Richard Johnson and Sondra Gunn.
Medical Staff Appointments
On the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive
Board, Regent Smith moved, Regent Nielsen seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, several appointments to medical staff membership.
Operation Desert Storm
Regent Baker moved the following resolution:
WHEREAS, on January 17, 1991, the United States and its allies from
35 countries around the world joined together in an effort to enforce United
Nations resolutions concerning the Iraqi occupation of Kuwait, an effort
known as Operation Desert Storm, and;
WHEREAS, on February 27, 1991, Operation Desert Storm successfully
completed its mission of liberating Kuwait from Iraqi occupation, and;


-189 -



March Meeting, 1991


WHEREAS, many members of the University of Michigan community
interrupted their regular University responsibilities in order to serve in this
coalition effort, thereby contributing to its success;
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the Regents of the University of
Michigan commend all members of the faculty, staff, and student body who
bravely served their country by participating in Operation Desert Storm.
Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on April 18-19, 1991. Regents' transportation, accommodation,
telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of February 1991 totalled
$532.64.
Richard L.  ennedy, Secret


-190 -



APRIL MEETING, 1991


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 18, 1991
The Regents met at 10:20 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, and Varner. Provost
Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Cosovich,
Johnson, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were Chancellors Jones and
Wilson. Vice President Swain was absent. Regent Brown arrived at 11:05 A.M.;
Regent Waters was absent.
CESF Report, UM-Ann Arbor
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Professor
Eugene Imhoff, chair of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty, to
present the annual CESF Report.
Turning to a handout he had distributed, Professor Imhoff noted that the first
issue he would be discussing was faculty leveraging. He referred to a table which
showed that there is a 3.08:1 ratio of noninstructional to instructional staff. A
discussion followed about the meaning of this ratio, and what conclusions can be
drawn from it. Professor Imhoff noted that theoretically, the leveraging of
noninstructional to instructional staff facilitates the productivity of the faculty, thus
increases in the ratio would suggest that faculty would be better supported and more
productive. However, he added that nobody knows what the ideal ratio would be.
President Duderstadt pointed out that the increase in noninstructional staff can
be directly targeted to increased activity, mainly stemming from increases in research
funding and indirect cost recovery. In response to Professor Imhoff s concern about
increases in professional and administrative staff compared to increases in the number
of faculty and student body, the president and Regent Nielsen noted that the
University has many missions, including the production of knowledge, research, and
public service, in addition to education.
Professor Imhoff then turned to the other two areas of the committee's
concerns: salary rankings compared to peer institutions and the University's
continuing ability to provide health care coverage for retirees in the future. He
pointed out that full professors continue to be ranked 13th of 18 peer institutions, and
that over 1,000 faculty members received salary increases last year below the increase
in the standard of living (4.5 per cent). Vice President Womack said that full payment
of post-retiree health care coverage is an issue of ongoing concern and discussion,
given its rising cost, and that most institutions do not have this provision.
Following further discussion about health care coverage and professorial
salaries, the president asked Provost Whitaker to describe the results of a recently
completed study about administrative staffing trends. Provost Whitaker noted that the
highest percentage growth in professional and administrative staff has been in the
academic units, and that this has been due largely to growth in research, computing,
and development activities, all of which support the educational and research missions


-191 -



April Meeting, 1991


of the University. The data will be reviewed and ratios determined at the unit level,
because the mix of funding externally and internally is very different among the
schools and colleges.
Provost Whitaker reported that top University management had recently
attended a presentation on Total Quality Management, and that representatives of the
schools and administrative units would be participating in the next part of the
program. He noted that this would be a long term effort, but in the short term it
would result in improvement in the quality of work without adding dollars, improve
the decision-making process, and make people feel better about what they do. All of
the vice presidential areas would be participating in the program.
Status of the 1991-92 State Budget Request
Vice President Kennedy reported that there had been little change in the status
of the appropriations process since the last meeting. He noted that the House
leadership had adopted budget targets, and that the governor's four per cent increase
in higher education had been adopted as one of the targets. However, the legislature
had not yet come to agreement about how to resolve the budget deficit for the current
year (1991).
Provost Whitaker reported that a fairly substantial tuition increase would
probably be necessary to balance the budget, given the budget outlook. President
Duderstadt pointed out that the federal funding situation would also be difficult, and
would be impacted by recent hearings about research overhead expenditures at
Stanford University.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of March 14-15, 1991.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations, and Non-Competitive Purchases
Over $2,000 from Single Sources from January 1-March 31, 1991. Regarding the
noncompetitive purchases report, he stated that there had been a conscientious effort
to reduce the number of these purchases, and that the current level of noncompetitive
bids was about as low is it could get.
Regent Baker asked whether the Regents would be receiving a report showing
the financial condition of the University at the mid-point of the budget year. Vice
President Womack noted that he and his staff were in the process of designing an
instrument that would present that information in a meaningful format.
Regarding the noncompetitive purchases report, Regent Smith pointed out
three blanket orders in equal amounts for legal services for intellectual properties,
stating that her impression was that such work was done in-house.
Regarding the litigation report, she noted that the University was funding the
legal expenses for Mr. John Weidenbach, athletic director, in a libel case filed against


-192 -



April Meeting, 1991


him by the former baseball coach. She asked whether it was the University's policy to
defend employees who made such statements. President Duderstadt said that the
charges against Mr. Weidenbach were allegations, and confirmed that the University
policy was to defend any employee who was sued while performing his or her duties at
the University. Regent Smith observed that one reason that the position of executive
director of University relations had been created was so that one person could serve as
the official University spokesperson, and that using that person in this way might avoid
lawsuits.
Vice President Kelly submitted reports on Projects Established —Research and
Other Academic Activities and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects.
There being no further discussion, on a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by
Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved receipt of the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted reports of gifts received for the month of
March 1991. Regent Baker commented that Chancellor Wilson had developed a
successful relationship with Mr. and Mrs. Edsel Ford to renovate the Henry Ford
Estate, that had recently raised $100,000 for that purpose. He commended her for her
efforts to continue the long-standing relationship between the University of Michigan
and the Ford family.
Following further discussion, Regent McFee moved, Regent Baker seconded,
and the Regents unanimously approved acceptance of the following gifts with thanks
and in accordance with their terms and conditions:
Alcatel Espace, Toulouse, France
for bipolar transistor research in the College of Engineering              18,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School,                                       131,958
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                          5,905
American Telephone & Telegraph Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 7,483
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Good Teaching Award, and for support of the Colleges of
Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the School of Public Health  19,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research m the Medical School                                          36,084
Lawrence Sims Bartell, Ann Arbor
300 shares of Johnson & Johnson Corporation common stock; for the F. E. Bartell
Memorial Chemistry Lectureship, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  26,344
Elizabeth Burnett Trust
for support of the School of Music                                          5,000
Bertha Butterfield Estate
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                 10,000
Centocor, Inc., Malvern, ennsylvania
for pharmacology-cardiovascular research in the Medical School             89,130
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                         15,000
Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland Ohio
for research in the School of Public Health                                24,800
Commonwealth Aluminum Corporation, Lewisport, Kentucky
for metal matrix composlties research in the College of Engineering         5,000
Creative Industries Group, Inc., Auburn Hills
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics             10,000


-193 -



April Meeting, 1991


DeKalb Genetics Foundation, DeKalb, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,000
Suzanne Demaline Estate
for the Sue Ann Demaline Fund in the Alumni Association                     16,696
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           6,250
William T. Dobson, Ann Arbor
three shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc. common stock; for the Risk
Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration, and the
Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                      24,488
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               7,250
EG&G Fluid Components Technology Group, Cranston, Rhode Island
for alloy research in the College of Engineering                            15,000
Exxon Company, U.S.A., Houston, Texas
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts     12,500
Exxon Corporation Florham Park, New Jersey
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
Administration                                                              15,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,500
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Law School, and the Institutes of Public Policy Studies
and Social Research                                                        164,082
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Fund, the University of Michigan-Dearborn  10,000
William & Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn  10,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering; and for the Henry Ford Estate at
Fair Lane Fund, the Umnversity of Michigan-Dearborn                        116,500
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support of the School of Business Administration, the University of Michigan
Hospitals; and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane Fund, the University
of Michigan-Dearborn                                                       230,000
Franqois-Xavier Bagnoud Association, Geneva, Switzerland
for the Franqois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering    27,706
Ann & Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for unrestricted support of the School of Music                             15,000
Charles S. and Linda Giffin, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               5,000
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center, and for Employee Matching Gifts  5,775
Alvin Glick, Jackson
500 shares of Georgia Gulf and 115 shares of Northrop Corporation common
stocks; for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics       9,767
Eugene M. Grant & Company Real Estate Management, New York, New York
for the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Laris Stalker Gross, Park Ridge, Illinois
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering, in memory of
Edward A. Stalker                                                           75,000
George Gund Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the Medical School                                          42,630
William Randolph Hearst Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          40,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation2 Menlo Park, California
for research and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, for International Activities in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, and for Employee Matching Gifts                                   308,250
Jesse Hill, Jr., Atlanta, Georgia
for the Jesse Hill Jr.Fund in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Urbane W. and Jane G. Hird, Del Mar, California
304 shares of General Electric Company common stock; for the Urbane W. and
Jane D. Hird Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the Colleges
of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts                        20,862
Betty Quarton Hoard, Birmingham
for the Douglas H. Hoard Scholarship in the School of Music                 10,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Bethesda, Maryland
for Graduate Student Scholarships, and for research in the Medical School  428,600


-194 -



April Meeting, 1991


Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,435
Helen Judson, Cape Coral Florida
for the School of Natural Resources in memory of John E. Judson
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           46,048
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Institute for Social Research, and the Schools of Medicine,
Music, and Nursing, and for Employee Matching Gifts                         103,481
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the H. H. Willard Memorial in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, and for research in the College of Pharmacy                        11,500
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis Indiana
for research in the School of Social Work                                    11,566
Lockheed Information Management Services Company, Teaneck New Jersey
for intelligent vehicle highway systems research in the College of Engineering  50,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Raoul Wallenberg Scholarship in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning                                                                      5,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation White Plains, New York
for research in the Schools of Dentistry and Public Health                   13,750
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for the Russian and East European Studies Matching Grant, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           232,865
Sarah Morgan Estate
for the Carl and Sarah Morgan Scholarship Funds, the University of Michigan-Flint  25,039
John D. Moss, Peekskill1 New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                              15,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for the Library Development Fund~ the University of Michigan-Flint        2,900,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the
Medical School                                                               16,250
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           14,495
National Bank of Detroit Charitable Trust, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,176
National Neurofibromatosis Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
National Parkinson Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts              27,589
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, MKaryland
for research in the Medical School                                           19,149
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           69,865
Virginia and Donald G. Otero, Birmingham
for the Virginia and Donald Otero Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Phillip E. Perkins, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                                5,000
Mary Jo B. Peters, Ann Arbor
for the C. Wilbur Peters Endowment Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,434
Pew Charitable Trusts Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Scholars Program in the School of Natural Resources             136,329
Pfizer, Inc., Groton, Connecticut
for the Pfizer Fellowship in Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy              19,000
Republic National Bank of New York, New York
for the Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Professorship in the Schools of Business
Administration and Law                                                      150,000
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the
School of Social Work                                                       250,500
Seigle Family Foundation, Elgin, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration             5,000
Alice M. Shaw Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        9,383
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  8,410
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           19,564


-195 -



April Meeting, 1991


Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education, and the Institutes of Gerontology
and Social Research                                                        135,580
Otillia J. Stalker, Bay City
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering, in memory of
Edward A. Stalker                                                           75,000
State Farm Companies Foundation, Bloomington, Illinois
for the Risk Management ProfessorsEip in the School of Business Administration  25,000
Thrasher Research Fund, Salt Lake City, Utah
for research in the Medical School                                          18,835
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Power Scholarship Benefit in the School of Music                    10,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           6,231
University of Michigan Alumni Club Grand Traverse Area, Traverse City
for the Traverse City Award Fund, the Alumni Association                     5,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  6,615
Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center                                10,000
Wetlands Research, Inc., Chicago, llinois
for water research in the College of Engineering                            20,000
Wexner Foundation, Columbus, Ohio
for research in the School of Social Work                                   70,150
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Inc., Great Neck, New York
for unrestricted support of the Department of Athletics                     20,000
Richard Co Wolfe Estate
for the University of Michigan Cancer Center, and for energy research in
the College of Engineering                                                  13,374
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Alice Rhodus Bensen, Ann Arbor
a Civil War coverlet, and Carte-de-visite portrait; for the Clements Library
Vee Ling and Richard Edwards Ann Arbor
a Chinese hanging scroll, "Lotus Blossom " ink and color on paper; for the Museum of Art
Intel Corporation, Oregon Divisions, Hillsboro, Oregon
two PROM Programmers; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
E. Frederick Lang, Grosse Pointe
two lots of antiquarian and rare mathematical books (61 titles); for the Department of Rare Books
and Special Collections, University Library
Richard E. Petit North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina
over 3,000 specimens of marine Molluscan shells; for the Museum of Zoology
Eugene I. Schuster,Franklin
a portfolio of ten screenprints "City-Scapes"; for the Museum of Art
3-M Fiber Optics Laboratory, St. Paul Minnesota
polarization-controlling fiber; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Sclence
Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor
a collection of 23 Hopi ethnographic specimens, for the Museum of Anthropology
Peggy and Eugene Trotter, Adrian
an Everest & Jennings Electric Wheelchair and control box; for the Mott Physical Therapy Room
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on date indicated
Eugene Pijanowski, MA., M.FA., from Associate Dean, School of Art, and Lecturer in Art, to Associate
Dean, School of Art, and Professor of Art, for a two-year period, July 1, 1991


-196 -



April Meeting, 1991


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Sister Barbara Cervenka Assistant Dean, School of Art, and Lecturer in Art, appointment extended as
Assistant Dean, School of Art, for a one-year period
Malcolm S. Cohen Director of the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, appointment extended as
Director of the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, for a one-year period
Ivan F. Duff, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period, January 1, 1991
Rhetaugh G. Dumas, Dean, School of Nursing, and Professor of Nursing, reappointed Dean, School of
Nursing, for a five-year period
James S. Jackson Associate Dean for Graduate Student Recruitment and Retention, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Research Scientist, Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute for Social
Research, reappointed Associate Dean for Graduate Student Recruitment and Retention, Horace
H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, for a one-year eriod, September 1, 1991
Grace Kachaturoff, Professor Emeritus of Education, UM-earborn, reappointed to active status, for
spring/summer term, May 1, 1991
James A. McLean, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period, January 1, 1991
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on July 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Wesley M. Brown, from Professor of Biology, with tenure, to Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Chair
of the Department of Biology, for a five-year period
Robert W. Heywood from Professor of History, with tenure UM-Flint to Professor of History, with
tenure, UM-hint, and Chair of the Department of History, UM-Flint, for a three-year
period
Mark S. Mizruchi, from Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
to Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor
of Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business Administration, for a three-year
period, September 1, 1991
William C. Stebbins, from Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Psychology, with tenure College of Literature, Science, and the Arts to Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, Medical School, Professor of Psychology, with tenure C(ollege of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Associate Dean for Faculty Programs, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, for a three-year period, June 1, 1991
B. Joseph White, from Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, and Interim Dean, School of
Business Administration, to Professor of Business Adminstration, with tenure, and Dean, School
of Business Administration, for a five-year period
The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Pharmacy Executive Committee
Duane M. Kirking, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice Leslie A. Shimp, term expired
UM-Flint Channel 28 Community Advisory Board
J. B. Bettendorf, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1993, to succeed himself
Charles H. Cogins, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1994, to succeed
himself
Benjamin Davis, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1993, to succeed
himself
Chris Flores, for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1994, to succeed himself
Vivan Gottlieb, for a three-year period, ening May 31, 1994, to succeed herself
Jack Hamady, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1993, to succeed himself
Marianne Kugler, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1993, to succeed
hersef
Lewis Morrissey, for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1994, to succeed himself
Dilys Price, for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1994, to succeed herself
Thomas Rutledge, for a three-year period ending May 31, 1994, to succeed himself
Mary Schultz, for a three-year period, endng May 31, 1994, to succeed herself
Karen Sherrin, for a three-year periods ending May 31, 1994, to succeed herself
Ronald E. Silverman, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1993, to succeed
himself


-197 -



April Meeting, 1991


Don Spillman, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1993, vice Edward A.
Reed, deceased
Mary Turcke, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1993, to succeed herself
Nancy Tyler, for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1994, to succeed herself
Edith Withey, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1993 to succeed herself
Thomas Wrobel, retroactive appointment for a three-year period, ending May 31, 1493, vice Edward Foy,
resigned
Extension of leave of absence. The Regents approved an extension of a leave of
absence for Thomas Will, Lecturer in the Comprehensive Studies Program; and for
Ole Baadsgaard, Assistant Professor of Dermatology.
Correction to previously approved appointment. The Regents approved a
correction to the tenure status and length of appointment term of Richard M. Laine.
His correct title, status, and appointment term are Associate Professor of Materials
Science and Engineering, without tenure, in the College of Engineering, for a
three-year period effective September 1, 1990, and Associate Professor of Chemistry,
without tenure, in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts for a two-year
period effective September 1, 1991.
David G. Dickinson Collegiate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases. The Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Donita B. Sullivan,
M.D., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, as the David G. Dickinson
Collegiate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, effective May 1, 1991.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective April 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Timothy E. Bunchman, M.D., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
March 1, 1991
David E. Burdette, M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, February 1, 1991
Jeffrey R. Murray, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology
Linda M. Selwa, M.D., Lecturer in Neurology, February 1, 1991
Amy L. Tremper, M.D., Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology
School of Natural Resources
Janet F. Talbot, Ph.D., Lecturer in Natural Resources, January 1, 1991
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Jonathan Levine, Ph.D Assitant Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning (previously reported as
Lecturer in Architecture and Urban Planning)


-198 -



April Meeting, 1991


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Medical School
Ronald 0. Bude, from Lecturer in Radiology to Assistant Professor of Radiology, March 1, 1991
Edward R. Calkins, from Lecturer in Surgery to Instructor in Surgery, December 1 1990
Robert E. Cole, from Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Professor of Business Administration without tenure, School of Business Administration to
Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, School of Business Administration
June 1, 1991
Michael S. Klinkman, from Lecturer in Family Practice to Lecturer in Family Practice and Lecturer in
Health Services Management and Policy, January 1, 1991
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Dentistry
Robert G. Craig, Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, retirement furlough, May 1 -August 31, 1991
School of Education
Charles A. Tait, Associate Professor of Education and Audiology, with tenure, extended sick leave,
January 22-April 21, 1991
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Guenther H. E. Elste, Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -December 31, 1991
Medical School
Bernard W. Agranoff, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Department of Biological
Chemistry, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Department of Psychiatry, and
Director of Mental Health Research Institute, duty off campus, March 4-May 3, 1991
Gary Davidoff, Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, extended sick leave,
February 22, 1991-January 14, 1992
School of Music
Leslie R. Bassett, Albert A. Stanley Distinguished University Professor of Music (Composition), with
tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature Science, and the Arts
Samuel H. Barnes, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, cancellation of sabbatical leave (previously
reported as January 1-June 30, 1991)
Mark R. DeCamp, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure sabbatical leave, changed to
September 1-December 31, 1990 (previously reported as September 1, 1990-Aprq 30, 1991)
Medical School
Thomas D. Palella, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
changed to October 2, 1990-August 31, 1991 (previously reported as October 2, 1990 -February 28, 1991)
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Business Administration
Harry C. DeAngelo, Professor of Finance with tenure, May 31, 1991
Linda E. DeAngelo, Ernest & Young Professor of Accounting and Professor of Accounting, with tenure,
May 31,1991
School of Dentistry
Brian J. Jacobson, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 26, 1991


-199 -



April Meeting, 1991


College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Brian J. Thelen, Assistant Professor of Statistics, May 31, 1991
Medical School
Mary E. Clifford, Clincial Assistant Professor II of Psychiatry, February 28 1991
Timothy J. Watkins, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, March 8, 1991
Neil Ho White, Associate Professor of Pedicatrics and CommunicableDiseases, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, June 30, 1991
School of Nursing
Lois W. Gage, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, May 31, 1991
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Christopher C. Dahl, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, April 30, 1991
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following retirement memoir:
Grace Kachaturoff, professor of education at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status on April 30, 1991, following a
most productive career as a teacher and scholar.
Professor Kachaturoff received her B.A. degree from Eastern Michigan
University in 1945, her M.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1950, and her
Ed.D. degree from Wayne State University in 1970. Prior to completing her doctorate
in 1970, she taught in the Dearborn and Ypsilanti public school systems, chaired the
Department of Social Sciences at Edsel Ford High School in Dearborn, was an
instructor at Henry Ford Community College and at Wayne State University, and was
a part-time lecturer at the University of Michigan Ann Arbor campus.
In 1970, Professor Kachaturoff joined the faculty of the School of Education at
the University of Michigan-Dearborn as an assistant professor of education. She was
promoted to associate professor in 1974 and professor in 1978. During her tenure at
the Dearborn campus, she also coordinated the Master of Arts in Education Graduate
Program from 1977-89, served on the School of Education executive committee, and
served on many other unit and campus committees.
Professor Kachaturoff's interests in social studies and secondary English
education motivated her work on inquiry methodology, cultural diversity, moral
education, adolescent learners, literature for young people, and simulations, and on
Michigan studies and global education. She has worked closely with the Michigan
Department of Education in developing and disseminating curriculum objectives and
guidelines for social studies education. Her leadership roles include service as
president of the Michigan Council for the Social Studies, editor of its newsletter, and
chair of an annual conference for the National Council for the Social Studies held in
Detroit. She has also served on numerous committees at the national and state levels
and has participated in many campus conferences for teachers on such issues as global
education, Japanese and American education, teaching about the Middle East and
China, and evaluation of social studies textbooks. Professor Kachaturoff is the author
of many articles and teacher curriculum guides in her areas of specialization and of a
social studies textbook for elementary students. She has also reviewed new teacher
education textbooks and has helped teachers develop and evaluate curriculum
materials throughout the state of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher, educator, and author for her
dedicated service by naming Grace Kachaturoff Professor Emeritus of Education.


-200 -



April Meeting, 1991


Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper authority in each case, Regent Nielsen
moved, Regent Baker seconded, and the Regents unanimously approved, certain
specified changes to previously approved degree lists. They also approved the
tentative doctoral degree list for the May 1991 commencement.
The meeting then recessed at 11:45 A.M.
The Regents reconvened in the Regents Room at 1:00 P.M. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith,
Varner, and Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and
Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Vice President Swain was absent, Associate Vice
President Harper was there in her place.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order, and called on Associate Vice
President Harper. Vice President Harper called to the table James Green, the
newly-elected president of Michigan Student Assembly. Mr. Green made a statement
indicating his hopes for developing a more constructive student government.
President Duderstadt congratulated Mr. Green on his election and noted that even
though there would be times when they would disagree, the role of both parties was to
serve the student body of the University, and that united them. Regent Baker added
his congratulations and commended the Conservative Coalition for its persistence in
pursuing its political goals.
Honorary Degrees
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
approved recommendations for recipients of honorary degrees.
Audit of Health Professions and Nursing Student Loan Programs —July 1, 1987 to June
30, 1989
Vice President Womack pointed out that te report stated that the financial
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the combined financial position of
the Health Professions and Nursing Student Loan Programs at the University. He
noted that the audit had been conducted by University audits, and certified by Ernst &
Young. He called on Mr. Carl Smith, director of University audits, to respond
questions from the Regents.
Resolution Regarding Gift Designation for Matching Grant from Hewlett Foundation
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the following actions related to Hewlett Foundation grant
number 88-7813: They reaffirmed their acceptance of certain gifts, already received


-201 -



April Meeting, 1991


and accepted by them prior to March 1991, on the terms and conditions under which
they were solicited, received, and accepted, for the agreed upon purpose of meeting
and matching qualification standards for the Hewlett Foundation grant. They also
affirmed their understanding that these gifts, and any future gifts solicited, received,
and accepted for this purpose, which qualify for the Hewlett matching funds, are and
will be committed as permanent endowment funds of the Graduate School.
Land Exchange with Department of Natural Resources
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved a land exchange between the University and the Department of
Natural Resources (DNR), as follows: DNR will convey to the University its 90.3 acre
parcel located between the existing southern boundary of the E. S. George Reserve
and Doyle Road. The University will convey to DNR the two small parcels located on
the east side of Kelly Road and a 200 acre property in Charlevoix County. In addition,
the University will purchase and then convey to DNR the additional parcel required to
provide lands equal in value. The funds to complete this transaction will be
nonrecurring capital resources. This exchange is subject to approval by the Natural
Resources Commission. (See Regents communication for further details.)
531 S. Division Street, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved purchase of the property at 531 S. Division Street in Ann
Arbor, at a price of $51,000.
Burton Tower - Renovation for University Musical Society
Vice President Womack informed the Regents that Mr. Joe O'Neal, president of
O'Neal Construction Company, had volunteered his services to renovate the space in
Burton Tower occupied by the University Musical Society. The project will be
accomplished by Mr. O'Neal, working with the School of Music, the University
Musical Society, and the University's Central Development Office to identify
contributions in kind and cash necessary to renovate and furnish this space.
Regent Baker expressed the gratitude of the Regents for the generosity of the
time and effort expended by Mr. O'Neal and others on this project.
Chemical Sciences Facility Phase II: Renovation of 1908 and 1948 Buildings
Regent Power moved, and Regent McFee seconded, award of a construction
contract to the low bidder, Turner Construction Company, for the Phase II renovation
of the Chemical Sciences Facility. Following some discussion, the vote was taken and
the motion was approved unanimously.
North Campus Roadways
Vice President Womack informed the Regents that funding had been received
from the Michigan Institutional Roads Fund (a state fund) for completion of three
projects on North Campus. These projects include resurfacing of portions of Bonisteel
Boulevard, Hayward, and Hubbard Road.


-202 -



April Meeting, 1991


Renovations: School of Dentistry and Medical Science I
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved projects for renovation of clinics in the School of Dentistry into
research laboratories and renovation of space on the fourth floor of the Medical
Science I Building into two modern biomedical wet laboratory facilities.
Second Phase of Joint Agreement with IBM
Provost Whitaker pointed out that Phase I of a joint study agreement between
the University and IBM Corporation, initiated in 1988, had been successfully
completed, and that a joint study agreement for Phase II would now be executed. The
agreements focus on research and development of the Institutional File System (IFS).
President Duderstadt explained that with this system, users' individual files would be
stored on the University's mainframe computer, where they would then be accessible
from any computer on campus that is tied into the mainframe.
Establishment of a Basic Four-Year Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) Degree
Program at the University of Michigan-Flint
Chancellor Jones explained that this proposal, developed in collaboration with
Hurley Medical Center, would build on the existing two-year RN/BSN degree
program at UM-Flint to create a basic four-year BSN degree program at UM-Flint.
The Hurley Medical Center would assist the University in meeting the additional
operational costs of the program, and would also provide office, laboratory, and
classroom space. The curriculum, faculty, and other academic aspects of the program
would be under the control of UM-Flint. He introduced Ms. Ellen Woodman,
director of the nursing program at UM-Flint, and Ms. Mary Jean Smith, director of the
School of Nursing at Hurley Medical Center.
Regent Nielsen said that this project exemplifies the type of collaboration that
should happen among educational institutions. He applauded the cooperation
between all of the parties that made this possible, and moved approval of establishing
the program. Regent Varner seconded the motion.
In response to a question from Regent Power, Ms. Woodman noted that the
Flint nursing program had been made autonomous from the School of Nursing
program on the Ann Arbor campus in 1989, but that School of Nursing faculty had
been consulted on development of the Flint program and were in support of its
establishment.
It was also noted that Hurley Medical Center had committed $500,000 as
reserve to the program. Regent Power expressed the appreciation of the Regents to
Hurley Hospital for its contributions to the nursing program. Following further
discussion, the vote was taken and the motion was approved unanimously.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw 5.08(2) (Appointment, Tenure, Promotion, and Resignation
of the Staff)
Provost Whitaker stated that the proposed bylaw revision would allow assistant
professor appointments to be one, two, three, or four years, instead of one, two, or
three years. Since the maximum tenure clock appointment is eight years, this would


-203 -



April Meeting, 1991


allow for two four-year appointments, resulting in reduced paperwork and more
flexibility to the appointment process.
Following some discussion, Regent Varner moved approval of revising Regents'
bylaw 5.08(2). Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it was adopted. The change
to bylaw 5.08 involves a change in the second sentence of paragraph 2, as follows:
Previous wording:
'Assistant professors, instructors, and lecturers shall be appointed for terms of up to three
years, as is in each case specifically designated in the terms of the appointment."
Revised wording:
'Assistant professors, instructors, and lecturers shall be appointed for terms of up to four
years, as is in each case specifically designated in the terms of the appointment. 
The remainder of the bylaw remains unchanged.
Revisions to Regents' Bylaw Section 6.02 (Degree Program Definitions)
This proposed revision would correct the bylaws' listing of units that offer
undergraduate degree programs to reflect the Regents' approval of the change in the
name of the School of Health Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint to the
School of Health Professions and Studies. On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by
Regent Varner, the Regents unanimously approved this change to bylaw 6.02.
Membership in the Association of Professors of Cardiology for Bertram Pitt, M.D.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved membership for Bertram Pitt, M.D., in the Association of
Professors of Cardiology.
Medical Staff Appointments
On the recommendation of the University of Michigan Hospitals Executive
Board, Regent Smith moved, Regent Varner seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, certain specified appointments to medical staff membership.
Interim Policy on Discrimination and Discriminatory Conduct by Students in the
University Environment
Regent Baker observed that a recent Michigan Daily contained an open letter to
President Duderstadt, signed by the editors of the Michigan Review, Michigan Daily,
Res Gestae, and Prospect Magazine, asking that the University set aside the Interim
Policy on Discrimination and Discriminatory Conduct by Students in the University
Environment. Regent Baker said that he would like to be on the record supporting
the students' suggestion. He thought the matter should be reviewed over a period of
months to see if it still has merit.


-204 -



April Meeting, 1991


President Duderstadt said that by being an interim document, there was an
opportunity to modify it as more experience was gained with the interim policy. He
also pointed out that this policy was not a student code of conduct, and that the
University of Michigan was unique among higher education institutions in not having a
code of conduct.
In response to a comment from Regent Nielsen, President Duderstadt said that
the document had been reviewed and the recommendation made that the policy
continue on an indefinite basis, subject to review and change at any point. He asked
Vice President Kennedy to confirm the actions that had been taken regarding the
policy.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on May 16-17, 1991. Regents' accommodation, travel, telephone, and
miscellaneous expenses for the month of March 1991 totalled $1,774.38.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secret


-205 -



MAY MEETING, 1991


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 16, 1991
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, Varner, and
Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as was
Chancellor Wilson. Chancellor Jones was absent; Vice Chancellor Dorothy Russell
was there in his stead.
CESF Report, UM-Dearborn
The president called the meeting to order and introduced Professor Arefaine
Yohannes, chair of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty at UMDearborn. Professor Yohannes stated that the committee's recommendations were
the same as those of the previous two years: raising the average faculty salaries to the
50th percentile level of average salaries at Michigan IIA institutions as a short-term
goal, and raising the salaries to the 80th percentile level of average faculty salaries at
Michigan peer institutions as a long-term goal. The former recommendation would
require about $314,000; the latter would require $528,000.
Professor Yohannes noted that UM-Dearborn administration had made special
efforts over the past two years to increase faculty salaries, by granting special merit
increases. Although these had helped, salaries are still not sufficient.
The second recommendation was to develop tuition assistance programs for
UM-Dearborn faculty and their spouses or dependents, with the tuition rates being the
same as those offered to senior citizens.
Professor Yohannes then responded to questions from the Regents, noting that
the committee believed that additional salary allocations should be distributed on the
basis of merit, as defined by the various schools and colleges. In response to a
question about the tuition rate for senior citizens, Chancellor Wilson reported that
there is a special program for senior citizens, the "Senior Scholars" program, with a
tuition rate of $50 per term.
CESF Report, UM-Flint
President Duderstadt then asked Vice Chancellor Russell to introduce the
Flint CESF representatives. Vice Chancellor Russell introduced Professor Robin
Widgery, chair of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty at UM-Flint,
and Charles Johnston, a member of the committee.
Professor Widgery summarized the committee's findings as follows: 1) the
rankings for Flint faculty compensation at both the old and new peer groupings of
institutions does not differ greatly; 2) associate and assistant professor levels lost
ground among the rankings with the old peer institutions; 3) total UM-Flint faculty
compensation is at the 63rd percentile among all IIA institutions nation-wide; 4)
UM-Flint relies excessively on non-tenure-track faculty; 5) the mediocre
competitiveness of UM-Flint's compensation policies may compromise the quality of
education in the years to come unless decisions are made to change these policies.


-207 -



May Meeting, 1991


Professor Widgery described the old peer group of institutions and the new
peer group, the latter of which would be used in all future comparisons of faculty
compensation. He then gave further details and supporting material on each of the
committee's findings. Finally, he reported the following recommendations: 1)
increase faculty compensation to the 75th to 85th percentile among class IIA
institutions over the next five years; 2) increase support for faculty research; 3)
improve the library facilities and library support services for faculty research; 4)
dramatically improve computer facilities for students, faculty, and staff; 5) increase the
proportion of tenured and tenure track faculty to match the IIA institution standard
around the country (91 per cent tenure track faculty); and 6) support the same goal of
excellence for the Flint campus as has been set for the Ann Arbor campus.
There followed a discussion in which the Regents responded to some of
Professor Widgery's comments. Regent Baker pointed out that a great deal of
thought, effort, and resources had gone into the University's branch campuses, and
that it was not appropriate to compare the Flint campus with the Ann Arbor campus.
Regent Brown commented that the missions of the branch campuses and the Ann
Arbor campuses are different; that the budget for the Flint campus is derived from a
separate appropriation from the state legislature, and not by the Regents; and that
research funds are raised by faculty themselves, not granted by the Regents.
Following further discussion, Regent Nielsen stated that he did not sense any
of the derisiveness on the part of the staff that Professor Widgery had described, and
that on the contrary, the staff, students, and others in the Flint community were proud
of the UM-Flint. The president pointed out that many of the concerns would be more
appropriately addressed on the Flint campus.
SACUA Presentation: History of Faculty Governance at the University of Michigan
President Duderstadt introduced Peggie Hollingsworth, chair of the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs, and expressed his appreciation for her
leadership over the past year. Ms. Hollingsworth gave a brief overview of the history
of University governance in general since the early nineteenth century, and then
summarized the major events related to faculty governance that had occurred during
her tenure as chair of SACUA. She then introduced Professor Nicholas Steneck, to
present the results of his study the history of faculty governance at the University of
Michigan.
Professor Steneck distributed copies of his publication, "Faculty Governance at
the University of Michigan: Principles, History, and Practice". He noted the three
aspects of faculty governance covered by the study: the principle on which it is based,
its history at the University, and the way it is practiced today, and continued the
presentation with summaries of these three points. He noted that in recent years there
has been a sharp decline in faculty participation in faculty governance, and expressed
concern over this development. In particular, he commented that the decline in
faculty loyalty is of paramount importance. Professor Steneck concluded by
commenting that the primary importance of faculty governance is not the decisions it
produces, but the stake it gives the faculty in the University, and that is why
consideration needs to be given to the vitality of faculty governance as the University
approaches the 21st century.


-208 -



May Meeting, 1991


Following his report, Professor Steneck responded to questions and comments
from the Regents about the reasons for the decline in participation in faculty
governance.
May 1991 Commencement Exercises
President Duderstadt expressed his appreciation for the extraordinary effort
made by many members of the University community in putting together the
"spectacular" commencement exercises in which President and Mrs. Bush participated.
He said that the White House had reported that it had been the best run event that
they had been involved in during the Bush presidency.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of April 18, 1991.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions,
University Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory as of March 31, 1991, Plant
Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations, and responded to questions
from the Regents. Regarding the endowment fund quarterly inventory report, Regent
Baker commented that the Office of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
had provided him a report stating that the cost of effecting the University's policy of
not investing University funds in the securities of companies that do business in South
Africa was $6 million. Regent Baker also pointed out that in addition to the original
cost there would be a recurring, compounding of income lost in perpetuity.
Vice President Womack and Mr. Norman Herbert, the University's investment
officer, responded to questions from Regent Baker about the alternative investments
in real estate, oil and gas, reorganizations, and venture capital. Regent Baker noted
that the total amount of all of these investments make up only a very small fraction of
the total endowment.
Vice President Kelly submitted reports on Projects Established -- Research and
Other Academic Activities and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects. Then, there being no further discussion, Regent Varner moved,
and Regent Power seconded, to receive the reports. The motion passed unanimously.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted Summary Reports, Detail Reports, and a
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of April 1991. The Regents
received the following gifts with thanks and in accordance with their terms and
conditions:
AARP Andrus Foundation, Lakewood, California
for research in the Medical School                             73,998
Alcatel Espace, Toulouse, France
for bipolar transistor research in the College of Engineering  18,575


-209 -



May Meeting, 1991


Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   20,890
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Pharmacy               95,786
American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                             8,844
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                    113,793
American Society of Hematology, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the Medical School                                             7,500
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Ameritech Fellowship Program in the Institute for Public Policy Studies  100,000
Baker & Hostetler Founders Trust, Cleveland Ohio
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                             5,000
Biogen, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                               35,000
Selina Blett Trust
for the University of Michigan Hospitals                                     137,140
Mr. and Mrs. Max D. Boersma, Grand Rapids
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                   5,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Doris N. Caddell, Ann Arbor
for the Robert M. Caddell Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering          5,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                             9,582
Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration, and for the
Joseph Savarino Memorial Fund in the School of Music                          10,000
Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland Ohio
for research in the Schoof of Natural Resources                               12,482
Colgate-Palmolive Company, New York, New York
for the School of Dentistry                                                    8,000
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration                         27,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health                                   38,500
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                            68,818
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                             6,250
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the School of Education                           10,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for research in the College of Engineering                                     8,000
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                                10,613
Earl-Beth Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the University of Michigan-Flint, College of Arts and Sciences             5,000
Exxon Company, U.SA., Division of Exxon Corporation, Houston, Texas
for the Exxon Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   11,850
Edsel B. Ford II, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane                                        12,500
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane                                         5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering, and for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane  123,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration, and for
the University Musical Society                                                25,000
Ford Motor Credit Company, Dearborn
for the University Musical Society                                             6,225
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  30,000


-210 -



May Meeting, 1991


General Motors Foundation, Inc Detroit
for research in the School of Natural Resources                              25,000
Glenell Associates, Nutmeg Mills Inc., Tampa, Florida
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               20,000
Margo Halsted, Ann Arbor
for the carillon keyboard, the School of Music                                6,000
Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
for research in the Medical School                                            5,184
Hermelin Family Foundation Detroit
for the School of Business Administration                                    10,000
Howard S. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  5,000
Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Foundation, Grand Rapids
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  5,000
Independent Insurance Agents of Ann Arbor
for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Intermedics, Inc., Angleton, Texas
for the Research Partnership Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies                                                                       5,000
International Heart of Variety, New York, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School            32,000
Marjorie M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Nursing                                          5,500
Japan Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for support of the Law School                                               146,095
Maxwell Jospey, Allen Park
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           23,550
Barbara Brattin Kacir, Cleveland, Ohio
for the William J. Brattin Scholarship in the Law School                      5,000
Miner S. Keeler II, Grand Rapids
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  5,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Presidential Initiatives Fund, and for Employee Matching Gifts    1,002,000
William R. Kinney Estate
for the University Musical Society                                          130,000
Richard and Linda Kughn, Southfield
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  5,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc. New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           17,415
William C. Lighthall Ann Arbor
200 shares of Johnson Controls, common stock; for golf course restoration in
the Department of Athletics                                                   5,538
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation Indianapolis, Indiana
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,784
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for aerospace construction in the College of Engineering                    100,000
John H. Lunden, Big Rapids
100 shares oI Humana Corporation common stock; for the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics                                                5,094
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society                                            5,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the School
of Public Health                                                             62,000
Mary R. Maddox Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      369,026
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  12,130
Microwave Associates, Inc., Burlington Massachusetts
for research in the College of Elngneering                                   10,000
Milheim Foundation for Cancer Research Denver, Colorado
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  5,000


-211 -



May Meeting, 1991


Mobil Foundation, Inc., Fairfax, Virginia
for neurotoxicity research in the School of Public Health                    10,000
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                 10,000
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                 10,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the University of Michigan Transportation Research
Institute                                                                   301,500
Lluella Morey Murphey Foundation, Pasadena, California
for the Dean Bursley Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                     10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York New York
for research in the Medical School, and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 33,750
NTT Software Laboratories, Tokyo, Japan
for cognitive science and machine intelligence research in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            10,000
Nam Building Management Company, Ann Arbor
for the Asian American Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 10,000
National Bank of Detroit Charitable Trust, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,780
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                            7,500
Charles F. Niemeth, New York, New York
500 shares of Rollins, Inc., common stock; for scholarships and other support in
the Law School                                                               11,219
Nobelpharma USA, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Dentistry                                      30,000
O'Neal Construction, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society                                            5,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           23,539
Gilbert T. Patrick Estate
for the School of Music                                                     150,000
Robert D. Paul, New York New York
for support of the Writer's Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Plymouth Park - 2101 Commonwealth Ann Arbor
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  5,000
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
William Putich Brecksville, Ohio
5,037 shares of Telefonos de Mexico common stock; for the Sports Service Building
in the Department of Athletics                                               11,097
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
139 shares of General Electric common stock; for History of Art Fellowships
in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts                            9,982
Research Fund of American Otological Society, Davis, California
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Peter J. Rosewig, Jr., Ann Arbor
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  5,000
Royal Maccabees Life Insurance Company, Southfield
for the Maccabees Mutual Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Dearborn    10,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            12,819
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for Cancer Center Gift Support in the Medical School                          5,000
George X. Simonetta Trust
for the George X. Simonetta Scholarship in the Law School                     5,000
Dr. Louis Sklarow Memorial Fund, Buffalo New York
for genetics research in the Medical School                                  32,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation New York New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             25,000
W. Carl Smith, Inc. Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                               5,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           46,855


-212 -



May Meeting, 1991


Society Bank of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  5,000
Sphinx Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Durham, North Carolina
for cardiovascular research in the Medical School                             8,000
Stanley Electric Company Ltd., Tokyo Japan
for automotive lighting research in the University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute                                                           30,000
Dean and Mrs. Peter O. Steiner Ann Arbor
for the Peter O. Steiner Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        10,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint                6,378
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  20,988
Telios Pharmaceuticals Inc., La Jolla, California
for cardiovascular research in the Medical School                             8,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                 25,000
Toyo Jozo Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for research in the Medical School                                           20,000
USX Foundation, Inc. Pittsburgh; Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  11,154
Union Oil Company of California, Brea, California
for the Industrial Affliates Program in Fluid Dynamics in the College of Engineering  16,500
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,955
Universal Press Syndicate, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                              5,000
University of Michigan Club of Flint
for the Library/Learning Community Resource Center, the University of Michigan-Flint  5,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division Ann Arbor
for the Dr. Frances Wang Chin Endowment in the Medical School, and for research
in the College of Pharmacy                                                   10,000
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarships in the School of Education and College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                         35,994
Weingart Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Clyde Coombs Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  7,500
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship in the Department of Athletics       10,000
Whitaker Foundation, Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania
for research in the College ofEngineering, and the Medical School           115,800
M. Irene Woodman, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Natural Resources                               20,000
World Heritage Foundation, Southgate
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                 10,000
Roger Zatkolf Company, Farmington Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                              12,000
Nell Scott Zoellner Estate
for the Karl and Nell Zoellner Fund in the Alumni Association               144,329
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
chemicals; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of Natural Sciences
Susan S. Griffin, Ann Arbor
letters of Issac Bartholomew and family, and Civil War letters of Edward Cahill; for the Clements
Library
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
three computer systems, and HP hand-held multimeters and accessories; for the Department of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Kathleen F. Ormondroyd Ypsilanti
a collection of I8th-2Oth Century books; for the Clements Library


-213 -



May Meeting, 1991


Personnel Actions
Promotions to the ranks of professor and associate professor. Provost
Whitaker submitted the annual recommendations for promotion to professor and
associate professor on the Ann Arbor campus, and Chancellor Wilson and Vice
Chancellor Russell submitted the recommendations for the Dearborn and Flint
campuses, respectively. They described the process which leads to the final
recommendations. In response to a question from Regent Power, President
Duderstadt stated that the standards for promotion are the highest they have been in
the 20 years he had been at the University.
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Susan J. Ashford, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior
James P. Walsh, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF PROFESSOR AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1991
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
obert E. Johnson, from Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, to Professor of Architecture,
with tenure
Emmanuel-George Vakalo, from Assistant Professor of Architecture to Associate Professor of
Architecture, with tenure
School of Business Administration
Rajeev Batra, from Associate Professor of Marketing, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Marketing, with tenure
Elazar Berkovitcl, from Assistant Professor of Finance to Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure
Jane E. Dutton, from Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management
and Corporate Strategy, without tenure, School of Business Administration and Associate
Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Associate
Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management and Corporate Strategy,
with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Michael D. Gordon from Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Systems to Associate
Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure
Gautam Kaul, from Assistant Professor of Finance to Associate Professor of Finance, without tenure
Robert E. Quinn, from Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, with tenure, to Professor ofOrganizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, with tenure
Lloyd E. Sandelands, from Assistant Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, School of Business Administration, and Assistant Professor of Psychology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and
Human Resource Management, with tenure, School of Business Administration, and Assistant
Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hasan N. Seyhun, from Assistant Professor of Finance to Associate Professor of Finance, with tenure
Edward A. Snyder, from Associate Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, without tenure, to
Associate Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, with tenure
Janet A. Weiss, from Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Public Policy, with tenure, to
Professor of Organizational Behavior and Public Policy, with tenure
School of Dentistrv
John H.Lillie, from Associate Professor of Dentistry, without tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor
of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Medical School to Professor of Dentistry, without
tenure School of Dentistry, and Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, Medical
School


-214 -



May Meeting, 1991


School of Education
Kim S. Cameron, from Associate Professor of Higher Education, without tenure, School of Education,
and Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, with tenure, School
of Business Administration, to Professor of Higher Education, without tenure, School of
Education and Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management, with
tenure, School of Business Administration
Karen K. Wixson, from Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, to Professor of Education, with
tenure
College of Engineenng
Michael M. Bernitsas, from Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with
tenure, to Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure
Richard B. Brown, from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineerng andComputer Science to Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Werner J. A. Dahm from Assistant Professor of Aerospace Engineering to Associate Professor of
Aerospace ngineering, with tenure
Trevor N. Mudge, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science with tenure
Panos Y. Papalambros, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics,
with tenure, to Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Christophe Pierre from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering an d   Mechanics to
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
William C. Rounds, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with
tenure to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science with tenure
William W. Schultz, from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics to
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Jasprit Singh, from Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, to
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
David J. Srolovitz, from Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering with tenure
Fred L. Terry, Jr., from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science to Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Gretar Tryggvason from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics to
Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
John F. Vesecky, from Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without tenure, to
Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, with tenure
Andrew E. Yagle, from Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science to Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Division of Kinesioloov
Christine M. Brooksfrom Assistant Professor of Sports Management and Communication to Associate
Professor of Sports Management and Communication, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Robert B. Barsky, from Assistant Professor of Economics to Associate Professor of Economics, with
tenure
Robert A. Bender, from Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, to Professor of Biology, with tenure
Christoph Borgers, from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of Mathematics,
with tenure
David M. Buss, from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor of Psychology, with
tenure
John C. Campbell, from Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, to Professor of Political
Science, with tenure
Bogdana Carpenter from Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, to
Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures with tenure
Richard D. Cureton, from Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature to Associate Professor
of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Julie K. Ellison2 from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, to Professor
of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Matthew A. Evangelista, from Assistant Professor of Political Science to Associate Professor of Political
Science, with tenure
Marilyn S. Fries, from Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Women's Studies,
without tenure, to Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Women's
Studies, with tenure
Susan A. Gelman, from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor of Psychology, with
tenure
Alexander N. Halliday, from Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, to Professor of
Geological Sciences, with tenure


-215 -



May Meeting, 1991


Eduard Harabetian, from Assistant Professor of Mathematics to Associate Professor of Mathematics,
with tenure
Kim R. Hill, from Assistant Professor of Anthropology to Associate Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure
James L. Hilton, from Assistant Professor of Psychology to Associate Professor of Psychology, with
tenure
Stephen E. Hinds, from Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin to Associate Professor of Greek and
Latin, with tenure
Howard A. Kimeldorf, from Assistant Professor of Sociology to Associate Professor of Sociology, with
tenure
Paul Knochel from Assistant Professor of Chemistry to Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Victor B. Lieberman, from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, to Professor of History,
with tenure
David M. Lubman, from Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor of Chemistry,
with tenure
Michael Makin, from Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures to Associate Professor
of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure
Vonnie C. McLoyd, from Associate Professor of Psychology and Afroamerican Studies, with tenure, to
Professor of Psychology and Afroamerican Studies, with tenure
Leo F. McNamara, from Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, to
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Anita Norich, from Assistant ProTessor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies to
Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Judaic Studies, with tenure
David S. Potter, from Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin to Associate Professor of Greek and Latin,
with tenure
Michael C. Schoenfeldt, from the William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of English Language and
Literature to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Bernardus A. van der Pluijm, from Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences to Associate Professor of
Geological Sciences, with tenure
Medical School
Mel L. Barclay, from Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, to Associate
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Thomas P. Beresford, from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, to Professor of
Psychiatry, with tenure
Steven F. Bolling, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Robert L. Bree, rom Associate Professor of Radiology, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Radiology, with tenure
Thomas L. Chenevert, from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, with
tenure
Gary N. Davidoff, from Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation to Associate
Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, with tenure
G. Michael Deeb, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
John 0. L. DeLancey, from Assistant Professor ofObstetrics and Gynecology to Associate Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure
Vishva M. Dixit, from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology,
with tenure
N. Cary Engleberg, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without tenure
Joseph C. Fantone III, from Associate ProTessor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor of Pathology,
with tenure
Norman L. Foster, from Assistant Professor of Neurology to Associate Professor of Neurology, with
tenure
Ari Gafni' from Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure
Thomas W. Glover, from Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure,
and Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure, to Associate Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Human Genetics, without
tenure
Harry S. Greenberg, from Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, to Professor of Neurology, with
tenure
Jorge J. Gumucio, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
Melvin J. Guyer, from Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, to Professor of Psychology,
with tenure
John L. Kemink, from Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, to Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure


-216 -



May Meeting, 1991


Charles F. Koopmann Jr., from Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, and
Associate Professor Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, to Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
without tenure
Ziad A. Kronfol, from Associate Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Psychiatry, with tenure
Steven L. Kunkel, from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor of Pathology, with
tenure
Ricardo V. Lloyd, from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor of Pathology, with
tenure
John B. Lowe, from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure
G. B. John Mancini, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of
Internal Medicine, with tenure
Daniel L. McShan, from Assistant Professor of Radiation Therapy to Associate Professor of Radiation
Therapy, with tenure
Robert M. Merion, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Michael W. Mulholland, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with
tenure
Elizabeth G. Nabel, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
John K. Niparko, from Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology to Associate Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
Marc Peters-Golden, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine with tenure
Leslie E. Quint, from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Bruce C. Richardson, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
David A. Rosen, from Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology and Instructor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, to Associate Professor ofAnesthesiology, with tenure, and Instructor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
J. Chris Sackellares, from Associate Professor of Neurology, with tenure, to Professor of Neurology,
with tenure
Markus Schwaiger, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
Suyu Shu, from Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, and Associate Professor of Pathology,
without tenure, to Professor of Surgery, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Pathology,
without tenure
Dorit A. Silver, from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Robert G. Sitrin, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
Mindy A. Smith, from Assistant Professor of Family Practice to Associate Professor of Family Practice,
with tenure
Lloyd M. Stoolman, from Assistant Professor of Pathology to Associate Professor of Pathology, with
tenure
Gerd 0. Till, from Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, to Professor of Pathology, with tenure
Galen B. Toews, from Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, to Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
James Varani, from Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, to Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure
Paul B. Watkins, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
James M. Wilson, from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Biological
Chemistry to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Biological Chemistry, without tenure
Edward M. Wojtys, from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Elizabeth A. Young, from Assistant Professor of Psychiatry to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with
tenure
Gerald B. Zelenock, from Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, to Professor of Surgery, with
tenure
School of Music
Glenn W. De Young, Jr., from Assistant Professor of Dance to Associate Professor of Dance, with tenure
Philip Kerr, from Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, to Professor of Theatre, with tenure
Andrew W. Mead, from Assistant Professor of Music (Theory) to Associate Professor of Music (Theory),
with tenure
Roland J. Wiley, from Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, to Professor of Music, with tenure


-217 -



May Meeting, 1991


School of Nursing
Carol J. Loveland-Cherry, from Assistant Professor of Community Health Nursing to Associate Professor
of Community Health Nursing, with tenure
College of Pharmacy
Robert J. Levy, from Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, without tenure, College of Pharmacy and
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, MedicaSchool, to Professor of
Pharmaceutics, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, and Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School
Michael A. Marletta from Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, with tenure,
College of Pharmacy, and Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical
School, to Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Pharmacognosy, with tenure College of
Pharmacy, and Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School
Victor C. M. Yang, from Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics to Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics
with tenure
School of Public Health
Jeffrey A. Alexander, from Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure,
to Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure
Thomas A. D'Aunno, from Assistant Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, School of
Public Health, and Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of iterature, Science, and the
Arts to Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, School of
Pubic Health, and Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature Science, and the Arts
Adam Drewnowski from Associate Professor of Community Healt Programs, with tenure, School of
Public Heafth and Associate Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School, to
Professor of Community Health Programs, with tenure School of Public Health, and Associate
Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School
William M. Keyserling, from Assistant Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, School of
Public Health, and Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure
College of Engineering, to Associate Professor of Environmental and Industrial  ealth, without
tenure, SchooLof Pubac Health, and Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering
James S. Koopman, from Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, to Professor of
Epidemiology, with tenure
Ruth E. Little, from Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, to Professor of Epidemiology, with
tenure
Harold W. Neighbors from Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education to Associate
Professor of Wealth Behavior and Health Education, with tenure
School of Social Work
Oscar A. Barbarin Ill, from Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, to Professor of Social Work,
with tenure
Edith A. Lewis, from Assistant Professor of Social Work to Associate Professor of Social Work, with
tenure
Robert J. Taylor, from Assistant Professor of Social Work to Associate Professor of Social Work, with
tenure
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Jacqueline E. Lawson from Assistant Professor o English Language and Literature to Associate
Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
Kiumi Akingbehin, from Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering to Associate
Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure
Chia-Hao Chang, from Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, with tenure, to
Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, with tenure
Pankaj K. Mallick, from Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, to Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
UM-Flint Collefe of Arts and Sciences
Carolyn M. Gillespie, from Associate Professor of Theatre, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Theatre, with tenure
Paul E. O'Donnell, from Assistant Professor of Foreign Language to Associate Professor of Foreign
Language, with tenure
UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Suzanne M. Selig, from Associate Professor of Health Care, with tenure, to Professor of Health Care,
with tenure


-218 -



May Meeting, 1991


UM-Flint School of Management
Walker E. Fesmire, from Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, to Professor of Accounting, with
tenure
I. Douglas Moon, from Professor of Operations Management, without tenure, to Professor of Operations
Management, with tenure
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Daniel J. Chiego, Jr., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dentistry, June 1, 1991
Michael Daugherty, D.MA., Associate Professor of Music (Composition), September 1, 1991
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Erdogan Gulari, Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, College of Engineering, and Professor of
Chemical Engineering, with tenure, reappointed Associate Dean for Academic Affairs,
College of Engineering, for a two-year period June 1, 1991
John Jonides, Associate Dean tor Research and Facilties, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts and Professor of Psychology, with tenure reappointed Associate Dean for Research and
Facilities, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, for a one-year period, September 1 1991
Kathleen H. Lavoie, Chair of the Department of Biology, UM-Flint Associate Professor of Biology, with
tenure, UM-Flint, reappointed Chair of the Department of Biology, UM-Flint, for a three-year
period
Ernest N. McCarus, Director of the Center for Middle Eastern and North African Studies and Professor
of Arabic and Kurdish, with tenure, reappointed Director of the Center for Middle Eastern
and North African Studies, for a one-year period
David H. O'Keeffe, Chair of the Department of Chemistry, UM-Flint and Associate Professor of
Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Flint, reappointed Chair of the Department of Chemistry, for a
three-year period
Maurice J. Sinnott, Professor Emeritus of Chemical and Metallurgical Engineering, reappointed to
active status, for an eight-month period, May 1, 1991
Ernest J. Wilson III Director of the Center for Research on Economic Development and Associate
Professor ot Political Science, with tenure, reappointed Director of the Center for Research on
Economic Development, for a three-year period
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Robert F. Beck, from Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure, to Professor
of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, or a three-year period
Bogdana Carpenter, from Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures with tenure, to
Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and Chair of the
Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for a four-year period
John R. Chamberlin, from Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, to
Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, and Associate Dean for
Academic Appointments, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for a three-year
period
James H. Ellis, from Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure, to Associate Professor of Radiology,
with tenure, and Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, May 1, 1991
Stephen E. Feinberg, from Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, to
Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Associate Professor
of Surgery, without tenure Medical School, May 1, 1991
Sheila C. Feld, from Professor of Social Work with tenure to Professor of Social Work, with tenure,
and Interim Associate Dean, School of Social Work, for a one-year period
Robert H. Gray, from Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, and Chair of the
Department of Environmental and Industrial Health, to Professor of Environmental and
Industrial Health, with tenure, Chair of the Department of Environmental and Industrial Health,
and Assistant Dean for Curriculum, School of Public Health, for a three-year period
Robert L. Kuczkowski, from Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, to Professor of Chemistry, with
tenure, and Chair of the Department of Chemistry, for a four-year period


-219 -



May Meeting, 1991


Edith A. Lewis, from Assistant Professor of Social Work to Assistant Professor of Social Work and
Interim Assistant Dean, School of Social Work, for a one-year period
Hunein F. Maassab, from Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, to Professor of Epidemiology, with
tenure, and Chair of the Department of Epidemiology, for three-year period, September 1, 1991
Khalil H. Mancy, from Professor ofEnvironmentail Chemistry with tenure, and Professor of International
Health, without tenure, to Professor of Environmentaf Chemistry, with tenure, Professor of
International Health, without tenure, and Chair of the Department of Environmental and
Industrial Health, for a three-year period
Anders A. F. Sima from Professor of Pathology to Professor of Pathology and Professor of Internal
Medicine, for a one-year period, May 1, 1991
Rob Van der Voo, from Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, to Professor of Geological
Sciences, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Geological Sciences, for a four-year
period
John R. C. Wheeler from a Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, to
Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, and Chair of the Department
of Health Services Management and Policy, for a three-year period
William Zimmerman IV, from Professor of Political Science, with tenure, to Professor of Political Science,
with tenure, and Director of the Center for Russian and East European Studies, for a one-year
period, September 1, 1991
The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Albert B. Schultz, for a four-year period, ending June 30, 1995, vice Herman Merte, term expired
Institute of Public Policy Studies Executive Committee
John W. Kingdon, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994
Judith S. Olson for a three-year period, ending June30, 1994
Stephen M. Pollock, for a two-year period, ending June 30 1993
Joel B. Slemrod, for a two-year period, ending June 30, 1993
Kenneth E. Warner, for a one-year period, ending June 30, 1992
Mental Health Research Institute Adviso-y Committee
Richard C. Adelman, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, to succeed himself
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Richard E. Corpron, for a three-year periods ending October 31, 1994, vice Fred G. Burgett, term expired
Ronald J. Heys, for a three-year period, ending October 31, 1994, vice Christian S. Stohler, term expired
School of Education Executive Committee
Samuel J. Meisels, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice Loren S. Barritt, term expired
Karen K. Wixson, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice James L. Miller, Jr., term expired
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Carol J. Loveland-Cherry, for a three-year period, ending June 30 1994, vice Susan Boehm term expired
Charlotte M. Mistretta, for a three-year period, ending Fune 30, 194, vice Phillip A. Kalisch, term expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
Sallie R. Churchill, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice Harvey Bertcher, term expired
Kristine A. Siefert, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice Tom Croxton, term expired
UM-Dearbom CollegeofArts Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Sidney M. Bolkosky for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice Richard W. Roehl, term expired
Richard 0. Straub, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice Linda E. Fisher, term expired
Extension of Leave of Absence. The Regents approved extensions of the
leaves of absence for Gregory Bothun, Associate Professor of Astronomy, and Will
Hansen, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering.
Psychology 201. Regent Baker reported that he had learned of a section of the
class, Psychology 201, that deals with racism, sexism, homophobia, and other social
issues by means of direct action, democratic reform, crisis intervention, civil
disobedience, and similar means. He noted that people who take this course
apparently get credit for participating in activism, and that some of the people who
had picketed at his house the previous fall had probably been enrolled in this class.


-220 -



May Meeting, 1991


Provost Whitaker responded that he would find out more about this class.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Medical School
Douglas H. Irvine, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology
Kwok L. Lam, Ph.D., Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, April 5, 1991
Joseph M. Metzger, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physiology, March 25, 1991
Rajan P. Nair, Ph.D., Lecturer in Dermatology
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Jonathan Smith, PhED., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, September 1, 1991
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Art
Jeanne A. Snyder, Assistant Professor of Art, personal leave, September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
School of Dentistrv
Sharon L. Brooks, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, March 1-August 31, 1991
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
KentC. Berridge, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1991 -May 31, 1992
Charles M. Butter, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1991
Raphael S. Ezekiel, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1992
Susan A. Gelman, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1992
David 0. Ross, Jr., Professor of Classical Studies, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1 -December 31 1991
Marilyn J. Shatz, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1991 -May 31, 1992
Martin K Whyte, Director of the Center for Research on Social Organization and Professor of Sociology
with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
School of Nursine
Betty J. Davis, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, medical leave, March 1, 1991 -February 28, 1992
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Robert C. Metcalf, Emil Lorch Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure and Dean
Emeritus
School of Business Administration
Ram M. V. Rachamadugu, Assistant Professor of Operations Management
School of Dentistrv
James E. Berg, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, July 31, 1991
William R. Chase, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1991


-221 -



May Meeting, 1991


Thomas M. Coburn, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30 1991
Cori K. Crider, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30 1991
Sophia P. Masters, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1991
Therese F. Shortt, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1991
School of Education
Donald E. P. Smith, Professor of Education, with tenure
College of Enianeerinng
William P. Grabel, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Steven L. Mullen, Assistant Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, December 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Enylton J. De Sa Rego, Assistant Professor of Portuguese
Robert G. Wetzel, Professor of Biology, with tenure, December 31, 1990
Medical School
Ruma Banerjee, Lecturer in Biological Chemistry, April 30, 1991
Michael J. Bushey, Lecturer in Anesthesiology, March 29, 1991
Kim P. Gallagher, Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Surgery, without tenure, August 4, 1991
Karen S. Guice, Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, July 19, 1991
Michael Iannuzzi, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, April 30, 1991
Mark A. Mintun, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, March 31, 1991
Keith T. Oldham, Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure, July 19, 1991
Jai K. Prasad, Assistant Professor of Surgery, April 30, 1991
School of Social Work
Jo Ann Allen, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Sydney E. Bernard, Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Howard V. Brabson, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Charles S. Wolfson, Professor of Social Work, with tenure
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following retirement memoirs:
Jo Ann Allen, associate professor of social work, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1991, after 24 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Professor Allen obtained her B.A. degree from the University of
Colorado in 1949 and her M.S.W. degree from the University of Michigan in
1953. She joined the faculty of the School of Social Work in 1966 as an assistant
professor, and was promoted to associate professor in 1973.
Professor Allen became one of the school's outstanding teachers in
interpersonal practice, as well as a leading authority on service programs for
children and families. Her expertise on the behavior of children and families
earned her the respect of her academic colleagues and professional practitioners.
She was an inspirational teacher, advisor, and faculty liaison to social service
agencies. Professor Allen's retirement marks the departure of a leading clinician
and dedicated teacher.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Jo Ann Allen
Associate Professor Emeritus of Social Work.
Sydney E. Bernard, professor of social work, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1991, after 27 years of service to the University of
Michigan.


-222 -



May Meeting, 1991


Professor Bernard obtained his A.B. and M.S.W. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1950 and 1952, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from
Brandeis University in 1965. He joined the faculty of the School of Social Work
in 1964 as an assistant professor; he was promoted to associate professor in 1966
and to professor in 1970.
Professor Bernard gained recognition as an expert on values and ethics
issues in the social work profession, as well as issues related to dependency and
public welfare. In the latter stages of his academic career, he focused much of his
attention on conflict resolution and public policy issues. He served on numerous
dissertation committees, school and University committees, and consulted with a
number of public and voluntary social service organizations. Professor Bernard's
retirement marks the departure of one of the most devoted members of the
faculty of the School of Social Work.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Sydney E.
Bernard Professor Emeritus of Social Work.
Howard V. Brabson, associate professor of social work, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1991, after 22 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Professor Brabson received his B.S. degree from the College of the
Ozarks in 1957, and his M.S.W. and D.S.W. degrees from The Catholic
University of America in 1962 and 1975, respectively. After a distinguished
career in the United States Army and various human service organizations, he
joined the faculty of the School of Social Work as an assistant professor in 1969,
and was promoted to associate professor in 1975.
Professor Brabson quickly became a leading member of the school's
faculty, and gained campus-wide respect as a devoted advisor and mentor to
minority students. He has been acclaimed for his outstanding teaching talents,
as well as for his leadership to students, faculty, and professional organizations.
Particularly noteworthy has been his legendary mentoring of minority
undergraduate student athletes. Professor Brabson's retirement will mark the
departure of an outstanding member of the School of Social Work faculty and
leader of the University community.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Howard V.
Brabson Associate Professor Emeritus of Social Work.
Lewis H. Cooper, professor of music (bassoon), will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1991.
Born in Pontiac, Michigan, on New Year's Eve, 1920, Professor Cooper
graduated from the University of Michigan with a B.Mus. degree in 1955.
However, he had joined the faculty of the School of Music 11 years prior to his
graduation, in 1945, as a part-time instructor in bassoon. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1961 and to associate professor in 1963, at which time his
appointment was increased to full-time status. He became professor of music in
1966. With his extraordinary 46-year record of service, Professor Cooper is the
longest-serving faculty member currently on the faculty at the University of
Michigan.
Professor Cooper was a member of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra
from 1946-64, performing in approximately 2,500 concerts. He was the
bassoonist on more than 30 distinguished recordings made by the orchestra under
the direction of Paul Paray during that time. He is author of several influential


-223 -



May Meeting, 1991


articles on bassoon technique. Perhaps his major contribution to the bassoon
world at large lies in his study of the acoustics of the bassoon, the fruition of
which, in a long-time collaboration with Puchner bassoons, is the "Cooper Model"
that has been widely acclaimed for its musical excellence.
In school and University life, Professor Cooper has served multiple terms
on the faculty Senate Assembly, and has been a guiding force in the music
school's Council of Departmental Representatives. Most of all, he has been a
committed, consistent teacher of young bassoonists, for which he received the
Harold Haugh Award for Excellence in Studio Teaching in 1980.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his distinguished service
by naming Lewis H. Cooper Professor Emeritus of Music.
Charles R. Fisher, professor of music (piano), will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1991.
Born in Oklahoma, Professor Fisher earned his B.Mus. degree in 1950,
his M.Mus. degree in 1951, and his A.Mus.D. degree in piano performance in
1960, all from the University of Michigan. He subsequently devoted most of his
professional career to the service of music at this University.
Following service in the United States Army from 1951-53, Professor
Fisher joined the faculty of the School of Music as an instructor in 1953. He was
promoted to assistant professor in 1960, associate professor in 1964, and to
professor in 1969. He also served as a member of the school's executive
committee, as chair of the piano department for 11 years, and as director of the
Division of Keyboard Studies. From 1972-82, he was the director of the Piano
Division of the All-State Program at Interlochen.
Always most earnestly concerned with the piano and the performance of
its repertory, Professor Fisher's eclectic interests led him to the harpsichord as a
performer in the faculty Baroque Trio for several years. He also developed an
interest in the fortepiano, about which he informed himself by intense study,
leading to the reconstruction of an instrument which he later donated to the
school. For 16 years, he joined colleague Eugene Bossart as the Bossart-Fisher
Piano Duo, and performed in numerous concerts throughout the south and
midwest.
In 1985, Professor Fisher received the Harold Haugh Award in
recognition of his outstanding abilities as a studio teacher.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Charles R.
Fisher Professor Emeritus of Music.
Lois W. Gage, professor of nursing, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1991, following a productive career as a teacher and scholar at the
School of Nursing.
A native of Massachusetts, Professor Gage completed a diploma
program in nursing at St. Elizabeth's School of Nursing in Brighton,
Massachusetts, in 1943. She received her B.S. degree in public health nursing
from Simmons College in 1949, and her M.A. degree in public health-mental
health nursing at Columbia University in 1957. In 1972, she received her Ph.D.
degree from the University of Michigan. Professor Gage's career has included
positions as a practicing nurse, administrator, and consultant, in addition to her
work as a faculty member. She joined the faculty at the University of Michigan in
1973 as an associate professor of nursing, and was promoted to professor of
nursing in 1975.


-224 -



May Meeting, 1991


At the School of Nursing, Professor Gage was a leader in the
development of a primary care track in the Community Health Nursing Master's
Program and in the school's efforts to respond to the health and nursing needs of
our global community. In 1979, for example, she received one of the first HHS
(then HEW) grants to initiate nursing programs in primary health care. She
established the Primary Health Care Program at the University of Michigan
within an established graduate program in community health nursing, a
pioneering step that ensured a community health orientation to the advanced
practice skills students acquired. Over 50 nurses have graduated from this
program; they work in and serve developing communities in the United States
and abroad. Professor Gage has also served the school and the University in
numerous other roles, including her recent service as co-chair and steering
committee member of the Academic Women's Caucus.
Professor Gage's research has been guided by her commitment to
improving nursing practice in and with developing communities and at-risk
populations. For example, she has studied the psycho-social needs of Native
Americans and the elderly and is currently conducting a collaborative study of
Japanese workers with Professor Takeshita of the School of Public Health. She
has served, and continues to serve, as a consultant to international organizations,
including the Pan American Health Organization, the World Health
Organization, and the Osaka Prefectural College of Nursing. Her 20 years of
international nursing experience have enabled her to strengthen international
networks, both at the University of Michigan and within professional
organizations and governmental agencies, thereby enriching research and
teaching opportunities for School of Nursing faculty and students.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Lois W. Gage
Professor Emeritus of Nursing.
Murray E. Jackson, associate professor of education, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 1991, after 20 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Raised in Detroit, Professor Jackson has distinguished himself in that
city as a humanitarian, civic leader, and educator. After serving in the United
States Navy from 1945-46, he earned his B.A. and M.A. degrees at Wayne State
University in 1954 and 1958, respectively. He then worked at Wayne State
University as an academic advisor, taking a year's leave of absence in 1964 to
serve as coordinator of the Opportunity Awards Program at the University of
Michigan. Returning to Wayne State University in 1965, he became involved in
efforts to launch a county-wide community college. Partly as a result of his
endeavors, Wayne County Community College came into existence in 1969, and
Professor Jackson served as its first president from that time until 1970.
In 1970, Professor Jackson joined the University of Michigan as an
associate professor of education, specializing in urban higher education. In 1982,
he was one of four University staff members who traveled to Zimbabwe to
present a proposal to that country's ministry of education for the development of
community learning centers, modeled on American community colleges. Since
1980, he has also served as a member of Wayne State University's Board of
Governors, the first professor to be elected to a university governing board in the
state.


-225 -



May Meeting, 1991


Professor Jackson has also been active in the arts, both as a published
poet, and as executive director of the Detroit Council of the Arts, a member of
the Michigan Council of Humanities, and as first chair of the state's Design Study
Committee. A committed and dedicated worker on behalf of civic causes,
Professor Jackson has been a member or officer of the American Lung
Association of Southeastern Michigan, the Neighborhood Service Organization
of Detroit, the National Board of Theological Education of the Episcopal
Church, the Citizen's Advisory Committee to the Detroit Public Schools, the
Detroit Council for Youth Service, Inc., the Mayor's Committee for the
Rehabilitation of Narcotic Addicts, the National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People, the Citizen Action Committee for Financing
the Detroit Public Schools, the Senior Citizen Commission, and the Urban
Alliance. Among his honors are an honorary doctorate from Shaw College, a city
of Detroit Murray Jackson Day, and resolutions in his honor passed by both the
Detroit Common Council and the Wayne County Commissioners. Known as a
man who cares about people and who has dedicated his life to helping them,
Professor Jackson's warmth and concern have earned him the well-deserved
affection of all those lives he has touched.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming
Murray E. Jackson Associate Professor Emeritus of Education.
Robert C. Metcalf, Emil Lorch Professor of Architecture and Urban
Planning and dean emeritus of the College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1991.
Professor Metcalfs association with the University of Michigan began in
1941, when he enrolled as a student in the College of Architecture and Design.
After serving in World War II, he returned to the University of Michigan and
received his B.Arch. degree in 1950. From 1948-53, he apprenticed in the office
of George B. Brigham, a faculty colleague and practicing architect in Ann Arbor.
He became a registered architect and established his own practice in 1953. In the
course of his professional practice, he has completed 120 projects, many of which
have been published in professional journals and have earned state and national
awards.
Professor Metcalf joined the faculty as a part-time visiting lecturer in the
College of Architecture and Design in 1950. He was promoted to assistant
professor in 1958, associate professor in 1963, and professor in 1968. In 1968, he
also was appointed chair of the architecture department. In 1974, when the
College of Architecture and Design was partitioned into the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning and the School of Art, Professor Metcalf was
appointed the first dean of the College of Architecture and Urban Planning, a
position he retained until 1988.
Whether as a practitioner, a teacher, or an administrator, Professor
Metcalf combined a straightforward, hands-on style with a candid, honest
approach to people. During his years as an administrator, the college initiated
the nation's first professional doctoral program in architecture in 1969; occupied
the new Art and Architecture Building in 1974; increased research volume
tenfold to the preeminent position as a center for research and scholarship it
holds today; increased student enrollment by 58 per cent; and changed the mix
from 98 per cent undergraduate to 40 per cent undergraduate and 60 per cent
graduate.


-226 -



May Meeting, 1991


Active in many professional associations, Professor Metcalf served as
president of the Huron Valley Chapter of the American Institute of Architects
from 1965-67 and chair of the Michigan State Board of Registration for
Architects from 1980-82. In 1972, he was elected to the College of Fellows,
American Institute of Architects.
In his application for admission to the University of Michigan in 1940,
Professor Metcalf wrote, "I would like to make a name for myself in architecture;
rather, I am going to do that." He has achieved, with distinction, what he set out
to do 50 years ago.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Robert C.
Metcalf Dean Emeritus and Emil Lorch Professor Emeritus of Architecture and
Urban Planning.
James L. Miller, Jr., professor of higher education, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1991, following 25 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Professor Miller received his B.A. degree from the University of Florida
in 1949; his M.A. degree from the University of Alabama in 1958; and his Ph.D.
degree from the University of Michigan in 1963. He joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan in 1966 as professor of higher education and director of
the Center for the Study of Higher Education. His career prior to that had
included positions with the Kentucky Department of Finance, the Kentucky
Council on Public Higher Education, the Georgia Governor's Commission to
Improve Education, and the Southern Regional Education Board. This
experience familiarized him with the practical world of governors, legislators, and
other higher education policy makers, and he maintained these ties in his later
academic work.
Professor Miller's career, which focused on public policy in higher
education, reflected his capacity for integrating the practical, political, and
academic aspects of postsecondary education. His research and publications
helped shape our understanding of state financing for higher education; of the
patterns of state coordination, governance, and planning for higher education; of
policy issues affecting higher education; and of the impact of public policy on
institutional governance. Among his numerous publications, his book, State
Budgeting for Higher Education: The Use of Formulas and Cost Analysis, is
considered a classic in state financing of higher education. Professor Miller has
served on many national task forces and commissions, and consulted for states,
institutions, and policy makers nationwide. He served in leadership roles on the
American Council on Education, the Education Commission of the States, and
the National Center for Higher Education Management Systems, and also served
as president of both the American Association of Higher Education and the
Society for the Study of Higher Education (later the Association for the Study of
Higher Education).
Professor Miller's classes on state and national issues in higher education
were a centerpiece of many graduate students' experience, and many of his
doctoral students went on to significant policy leadership roles. To his faculty
colleagues, he was a thoughtful source of intellectual insight and practical
wisdom, and always an effective collaborator. His commitment to faculty
governance was reflected by his leadership in this area, both at the University
and in the American Association of University Professors. Professor Miller has


-227 -



May Meeting, 1991


been a valued colleague whose contributions were felt in the classroom, in the
academic study of higher education policy studies, and in the larger world of
professional practice.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James L. Miller,
Jr., Professor Emeritus of Higher Education.
Donald E. P. Smith, professor of education, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1991, after 39 years of service to the University of Michigan.
After completing military service in the European theater during World
War II, Professor Smith received his A.B. degree at the University of Rochester
in 1948. He received his M.S. degree in 1949 and his Ph.D. degree in 1952 from
Cornell University, while teaching high school English in Ithaca, New York, from
1949-51. Professor Smith came to the University of Michigan in 1952 as chief of
the Division of Reading Improvement Services and lecturer in education. He
was promoted to assistant professor in 1955, associate professor in 1958, and
professor in 1966. He continued as chief of Reading Improvement Services until
1970, after which he served as director of the Office of Instructional Services in
the School of Education from 1972-82. He was a member of the Center for
Programmed Learning from 1962-64, and of the Center for Research on
Language and Language Behavior from 1964-66.
Professor Smith spent his initial years at the University of Michigan
studying basic learning processes. This research eventually led him to the view
that, in his words, "learners are only limited by their teachers' degree of
cleverness in producing effective learning experiences." To this end, he produced
more than 50 titles of self-instructional materials in reading, writing, and math.
In 1980, he turned his efforts to the study of autism, which led to the publication
of research reports and to new programs for learning-disabled and
language-delayed children, and for those with autism-like symptoms.
During his years at the University of Michigan, Professor Smith has
demonstrated his commitment to the application of research to solving the
practical problems of teaching and learning. His work has been published in an
impressive range of journals, including the American Psychologist and the New
York Times Magazine, and his instructional materials have aided hundreds of
teachers and children. Throughout his career he has never wavered in his belief
that all children can learn if they are properly taught, and he has acted on his
convictions by producing materials which demonstrate the viability of his views.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his
dedicated service by naming Donald E. P. Smith Professor Emeritus of
Education.
Charles S. Wolfson, professor of social work, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1991, following 30 years of service to the University of
Michigan.
Professor Wolfson received his B.A. degree from Long Island University
in 1951 and his M.S.W. degree from Wayne State University in 1957. After
several years of professional experience, he joined the faculty of the School of
Social Work in 1961 as a lecturer; he was promoted to assistant professor in 1962,
associate professor in 1966, and professor in 1977.
Professor Wolfson was regarded by his colleagues as an able teacher with
particular competence in the area of criminal justice programs. He served for


-228 -



May Meeting, 1991


several years as the director of the school's Office of Agency and Community
Relations.
Professor Wolfson's expertise in the area of criminal justice programs in
general, and juvenile justice programs in particular, earned him the respect of his
colleagues, and of public and voluntary agencies throughout the state of
Michigan. He has written extensively about deviant behavior and correctional
systems. His retirement will mark the departure of an esteemed colleague
devoted to the improvement of human service programs.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Charles S.
Wolfson Professor Emeritus of Social Work.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper authority in each case, the Regents
approved certain specified changes to previously approved degree lists. They also
approved the final degree list for the December 1990 Law School Commencement.
There followed a ten-minute recess.
May 1991 Commencement Exercises
Vice President Womack commented on the enthusiasm of the people who
worked on preparing Michigan Stadium for the commencement exercises, noting what
a rewarding experience it had been for him to have witnessed their pride in being
associated with this event.
Six Month Report on University Audits
Vice President Womack yielded the floor to Mr. Carl Smith, director of
University audits. Regarding the follow-up actions that have been taken in response
to recommendations from previous audits, he reported that he is comfortable with the
actions taken by the various management units around the University. He noted that
improvements in management systems areas is a long-term process, and that the units
are making satisfactory progress. Mr. Smith then responded to comments from the
Regents about the audit report.
Expenditure of the Income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 1991-92
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the uses of the income of the Wolfson Endowment Funds as
recommended by the Law School faculty for 1991-92. The details of the expenditures
are contained in the Regents communication.


-229 -



May Meeting, 1991


Amendments to the University Retirement Plan
Vice President Womack reported that TIAA had recently made available to its
participants the option to make transfers and cash outs from TIAA, as CREF had
done several months ago. However, the TIAA transfers and withdrawals can only be
taken over a ten-year period, so as not to affect liquidity. Regent Brown moved that
the Regents approve changes in the retirement plan to permit participants to transfer
past and future TIAA accumulations to other approved funds, and to permit
participants to elect to receive up to 50 percent of TIAA accumulations or those
transferred to other approved funds as a lump sum at retirement from the University
or, for former University staff members, at age 55. Regent Waters seconded the
motion.
Regent Baker expressed concern over the possibility that a staff member might
adversely affect the staff member's retirement income by pursuing this option. Vice
President Womack noted that the University does not have a retirement plan with a
defined benefit and liability. Rather, it has contracted with TIAA/CREF, which
assumes whatever liability there is. Because it is a defined contribution, rather than a
defined benefit, the individual is the party who assumes the risk, and who is dependent
on TIAA/CREF having invested wisely to provide for his retirement.
Regent Baker responded that the TIAA/CREF program is in effect a
retirement program, meant to provide for employees during their retirement. He
expressed trepidation with the notion that the University does not have an obligation
to take care of people when they retire, and expressed his opinion that the University
should at least advise employees that the intent of these programs is to do this. Vice
President Womack responded that the University has made it clear that the purpose of
these funds is for a retirement plan, not a cash accumulation vehicle.
There being no further discussion, the vote was taken and the motion carried,
with seven in favor and Regent Baker abstaining.
North Campus Commons
Vice President Womack said that this is a request to authorize submitting an
application to the Liquor Control Commission for a conference center liquor license
for North Campus Commons. This would allow the commons to be used for special
events hosted by the deans of the schools and colleges that reside on North Campus.
In response to questions from the Regents, Vice President Womack emphasized that
the liquor license would only apply to special events; there would not be a bar at
North Campus Commons and there would be no liquor available for purchase by
students or others.
Following further discussion, Regent Power moved to authorize submission of
an application to the Liquor Control Commission for a conference center liquor
license at the North Campus Commons. Regent McFee seconded the motion, and it
was adopted unanimously.
UM-Flint Safety Department
This is a request for approval of the deputization of the top four positions of the
University of Michigan-Flint Department of Safety (the director of safety and three


-230 -



May Meeting, 1991


shift supervisors) by the Genesee County Sheriff. It was pointed out that the city of
Flint is supportive of this move, as budgetary constraints have limited the ability of the
Flint police to respond effectively to the Flint campus concerns. Regent Smith noted
that according to an article in the Flint Memo, a statement in the Regents
communication should be corrected to read that "60 per cent of the total of 10.2 per
cent of the student body that responded to a poll are comfortable or very comfortable
with deputization...".
Regent Nielsen commented that this move will assist in the Regents' efforts to
provide safe and secure facilities, and moved approval of the deputization of the top
four positions of the safety department at UM-Flint by the Genesee County Sheriff.
Regent Varner seconded the motion, and it was approved, with Regents Baker,
Brown, Nielsen, Power, McFee, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent Smith
opposed.
Royalty IV
Vice President Womack reported that Cambridge Associates, the University's
investment consultant, had recommended that the Umversity invest in Cheyenne IV/
Royalty IV, as part of the five per cent of the total endowment to be allocated to oil
and gas investments. Combined with the other oil and gas investments, this
investment would bring the total oil and gas commitment to 2.5 per cent.
Regent Power moved that $3 million of the University Endowment Fund be
committed to Royalty IV. Regent Varner seconded the motion. Following some
discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion passed unanimously. Regent Smith was
not present when the vote was taken.
Florida Real Estate
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved that the property at 1707 Wedge Court, Sun Center, Florida, be
accepted and immediately put on the market for sale. Any costs required to market
the property, including a sales commission, will be deducted from the sales proceeds.
Regent Smith was not present when the vote was taken.
Cancer and Geriatrics Facility Project
Dr. Zuidema noted that in 1986 and 1987 the Regents had approved the
establishment of the multi-disciplinary Cancer and Geriatrics Centers, and in 1988,
they authorized proceeding with preliminary planning for the centers. The Regents
are now being asked to authorize proceeding with the design and Certificate of Need
application, approval of the site, and appointment of the architect. He noted that the
site plan and proposed conceptual scheme of the facility had been prepared in
conjunction with Johnson Johnson & Roy.
Dr. Zuidema introduced Mr. Douglas Hanna, assistant director of capital
programs in the Plant Extension Office. Mr. Hanna reported that the site of the
former Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Hospital (CAPH) had been selected as the
proposed location for the Cancer and Geriatrics Centers. He explained the process
used to select this site, and then used schematic drawings and an architectural model


-231 -



May Meeting, 1991


to illustrate the placement of the building on the site and rough layouts of how space
would be used on each floor of the facility. He noted that construction of a parking
structure is a recognized element of the facility, and said that plans for this structure
would be brought to the Regents at a later date.
Following Mr. Hanna's presentation, he, Dr. Zuidema, and Vice President
Womack responded to questions and comments from the Regents. Regent Baker
pointed out that the proposed site is the most important site remaining on the medical
campus. Therefore, it is important that it be properly used and that consideration be
given to expansion of the hospital at some time in the future. He moved approval of
the proposal, contingent upon the establishment of a jury on which Mr. Carl Johnson
would be appointed to represent the Regents, to review the appropriateness of the site
for this facility.
Regent Nielsen seconded Regent Baker's motion, and then inquired about how
the facility would affect the clinical operations of the University hospitals, and whether
a 1000-car parking structure would be adequate to meet the needs of the medical
campus. Dr. Zuidema said that this facility would alleviate some of the overcrowding
in the Taubman and Turner clinics. Vice President Womack responded that the size
of the structure is primarily a design and financing consideration, and consideration
would be given to increasing its size. He said that construction of the Cancer and
Geriatrics Centers would not begin until parking structure construction was either
underway or completed. Vice President Womack also reported that plans were
underway to change the structure of parking rates throughout the University, so that
there would be a base rate with additional rates based on geographical location.
Following further discussion about the site and the size and location of the
parking structure, the vote was taken and the Regents unanimously approved the
following: the design phase and Certificate of Need application (for the clinical
areas), the selected site (contingent on review of the site by a jury on which Carl
Johnson would be appointed to represent the Regents), the appointment of TMP
Associates/Hansen Lind Meyer as the project architects, and the expenditure of funds
in anticipation of the issuance of tax-exempt debt as described in the Regents
communication.
Franqois Xavier Bagnoud Building for Aerospace Engineering
The Regents were informed that a construction contract had been awarded to
the low bidder, F. J. Jones & Company, of Southfield, Michigan, for construction of
the FranCois Xavier Bagnoud Building for Aerospace Engineering.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the following projects: modernization of the C. C. Little
Building to provide four research laboratories for the Department of Geological
Sciences; energy conservation measure projects in the Medical Science I and Medical
Science II Buildings; and fume hood modifications in the north and south wing areas
of the School of Public Health facilities (Phase I of a project to modify the overall
building ventilation system and upgrade fume hoods).


-232 -



May Meeting, 1991


Proposed License Agreement between the University of Michigan and Chromatofast
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Power, all eight Regents
present unanimously approved the University's entering into a license agreement with
Chromatofast, Inc. Because the founders of Chromatofast, Inc., (Richard D. Sacks,
Mark A. Klemp, Christine L. Rankin, Anita J. Peters, and Ketan M. Trivedi) are also
employed by the University of Michigan chemistry department, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and
Chromatofast, a corporation in which Professor Richard D. Sacks, and
Mark A. Klemp, Christine L. Rankin, Anita J. Peters, and Ketan M.
Trivedi ("employees") own stock.
2. Terms of the contract include a duration for the term of the last to
expire of the licensed patents, and consideration to the University
consisting of: a $2,000 license issue fee; payment of royalties, including
minimum royalties, on products utilizing the technology; a share of
sublicensing revenues received by Chromatofast; and reimbursement of
past and future University filing and prosecution costs for the
technology.
Royalties will be paid to the University at a rate of four per cent for
products sold by Chromatofast which are covered by one or more
patents, two per cent for products sold which are covered by know-how,
and two per cent for products sold which are covered only by a patent
which has been licensed non-exclusively to Chromatofast.
Chromatofast will pay the University 30 per cent of its sublicensing
revenues, but will not be required to pay the University a share of
revenue received for continuing research and development by
Chromatofast. Minimum royalties shall commence during the third
year of the agreement at $10,000 and progress each year thereafter to
$50,000 in the seventh and each subsequent year.
The University retains the right to use such technology for research,
teaching and other educationally-related purposes Chromatofast shall
diligently pursue the commercial development and exploitation of the
technology covered by the proposed license agreement. There is no use
of facilities or services of the University included in the contract and no
assignment of University employees for fulfillment of the contract.
3. Professor Sacks' and the employees' pecuniary interest in the contract
arises from their stock ownership, currently consisting of 100 per cent of
Chromatofast's total authorized shares, which total 5,000 shares of
common voting stock. Professor Sacks' and employees' equity interest
will be in lieu of participation in the sharing of royalties received by the
University in accordance with University policy.


-233 -



May Meeting, 1991


Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants and Contracts and
Agreements, FY 1990
The Regents received information on the implementation of the Regents' Policy
on Research Grants and Contracts and Agreements for fiscal year 1990. During this
period, 12 new requests for approval of contractual restrictions on openness were
received, out of 2,904 research proposals submitted, and 1,551 research awards
accepted.
Proposed Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan and Merit
Network, Inc., a Nonprofit Corporation
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Nielsen, all eight Regents
present unanimously approved a subcontract between the University of Michigan and
Merit Network, Inc. Douglas E. Van Houweling, a member of the Merit board of
directors, and Eric M. Aupperle, president of Merit Network, Inc., are also both
employees of the University of Michigan. The subcontract with Merit is from the
University of Southern California, and Merit's obligations under this subcontract will
be carried out by University of Michigan employees. For these reasons, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the subcontract will be Merit Network, Inc. (Merit) and the
University of Michigan. Mortez Rahimi, vice president for computing
and information technology at Wayne State University, will sign the
subcontract as chair of the board of Merit.
2. The subcontract will include the terms negotiated by Merit with the
University of Southern California (USC) and passed through to the
University of Michigan. These terms are in compliance with the
University of Michigan's policies regarding research conducted at
Michigan. Merit's obligations under its contract with USC will be
carried out by University of Michigan employees. The University of
Michigan will receive $116,250 over approximately a 16-month period
ending December 31, 1991, for performance of the subcontract. The
proposed scope of the work and budget are described in the
subcontract.
3. Neither Mr. Van Houweling nor Mr. Aupperle receives a salary or
other pecuniary benefit from Merit.
Proposed Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan and Michigan
Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, all eight Regents
present unanimously approved a subcontract between the University of Michigan and
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. Because the owners of Michigan Critical
Care Consultants, Inc., Robert H. Bartlett, J. Patrick Montoya, and Scott Merz, are


-234 -



May Meeting, 1991


also University employees, this arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict
of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1. Parties to the agreement will be Michigan Critical Care Consultants,
Inc., and the University of Michigan.
2. The proposed agreement is a standard University research contract
without intellectual property terms. A license agreement covering
intellectual property already disclosed to the University by the owners/
employees is being discussed and will be presented for Regental
approval at a later meeting. There are no restrictions on publication or
openness of the research. The project involves the testing of a pump
system design and the development of a safe and least hemolytic blood
driver for use in extracorporeal circulation and other therapeutic
applications. No human or animal subjects will be used in the research.
The subcontract will cover laboratory supplies and equipment use
charges totalling $8,450 over a three-month period. Dr. Bartlett will
supervise the project and act as project director. Dr. Montoya and Mr.
Merz will conduct the studies. Bartlett, Montoya, and Merz will not be
reimbursed for their time on the project as University employees.
3. The total grant to Michigan Critical Care Consultants is $50,000. Dr.
Montoya and Mr. Merz each receive a salary as employees of the
company. Dr. Bartlett participates as president of the company without
compensation. Bartlett, Montoya, and Merz each own one-third of the
company.
Center for Catalysis and Surface Science (CCSS)
On a motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the transfer of the Center for Catalysis and Surface Science
from the Institute of Science and Technology to the College of Engineering.
Correction of Academic Calendars, Ann Arbor Campus, Fall 1992 and Fall 1993
Provost Whitaker informed the Regents that on the recently approved
calendars for 1992-93 and 1993-94, fall orientation would begin on September 6,
1992, and September 5, 1993, not on September 7, 1992, and September 6, 1993,
as previously noted.
Public Comments
Because no individuals had signed up to address the Regents, there was no
Public Comments session.
The meeting was recessed at 4:30 P.M.


-235 -



May Meeting, 1991


Friday, May 17, 1991
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Varner,
and Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as
was Chancellor Wilson. Regent Smith and Chancellor Jones were absent; Vice
Chancellor Dorothy Russell attended in the place of Chancellor Jones.
Degrees
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and noted that he had
overlooked recommendations for honorary degrees the previous day. On a
motion by Regent Waters, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents approved
several recommendations for candidates for honorary degrees.
Michigan Mandate: Three Year Status Report
Referring to a handout he had distributed, President Duderstadt described
the Michigan Mandate as an attempt to better respond to the diversity of the
nation and the world, by trying to change the nature of the institution itself so that
all ethnic groups could be brought fully into the life and leadership of the
institution. The goal of the Mandate was for the University to become a leader in
creating a multicultural learning community that would serve as a model for
higher education.
The president reviewed the progress of the Mandate by noting that the fall
semester of 1990, 18.2 per cent of the University's enrollment consisted of students
of color, representing an increase of 39 per cent in minority enrollments in the
first three years of the mandate. He also noted that the number of Black students
had increased to 7.1 per cent of the student body, a 36 per cent increase over the
past three years, and that Hispanic enrollments had increased 56 per cent to 3.2
per cent of the student body. Asian and Native American enrollments had
increased by 37 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively. He pointed out that the
University's graduation rates among students of color are among the best in the
nation. Finally, he reported that 121 new minority faculty, including 59 African
Americans, had been added to the tenure track faculty ranks.
The president commented that besides the representational goals, the other
aspect of the Mandate is building a new kind of multicultural community, and that
this is the more difficult goal to achieve. He pointed out that college campuses
are the only places that students from different backgrounds come together, and
for the first time in their lives are expected to live, work, and learn together. This
is in contrast to the increasing polarization in the rest of American society, making
campuses the crucibles in which the multicultural, multiracial, world cultures of
the 21st century are being forged.


-236 -



May Meeting, 1991


Concluding his remarks, President Duderstadt introduced Charles Moody,
vice provost for minority affairs, to discuss how the University is addressing the
issues of human interaction that are critical to the success of the Michigan
Mandate.
Vice Provost Moody reported that the development of the multicultural
community was proceeding from a "planned change" perspective that consisted of
a four-dimensional model: access (making the institution accessible and thereby
increasing the representation of minority students, faculty, and staff); process
(improving the corporate culture of the institution, i.e., how people are treated
once they are at the institution); achievement (dependent on the expectations and
assumptions made during the process dimension, and also incorporating such
measures as curricula and teaching strategies); and transfer (the ability to transfer
the other three dimensions into further educational opportunities and eventually
to jobs with equal pay, power, privilege, and prestige). Vice Provost Moody
pointed out that all of the dimensions are interdependent, and gave examples
illustrating them. He concluded by describing some of the programs operated by
the Office of Minority Affairs, and thanked the Regents, the administration, and
the rest of the University community for their support in the achievements they
have made.
Regent Brown left at this point, and was absent for the remainder of the
meeting.
Following Vice Provost Moody's presentation, Paul Boylan, dean of the
School of Music, described how the School of Music had successfully recruited
African American students into the school, largely through linkages it had made
with the Detroit Public School system, and then, as a result emd theof the Mandate, had
reconceptualized its curriculums and courses and created new degree programs.
This had led the faculty to be much more open-minded and progressive, and had
made the School of Music the leader in the reform of music curriculums around
the country.
Dean Boylan then introduced Robert Weisbuch, chair of the Department of
English, who reported about how the English department had embraced the
challenge posed by the Mandate and greatly increased the ethnic and gender
diversity among its faculty. He praised the efforts of administrators, faculty, and
staff, as well asta the Target of Opportunity Program and the Office of Minority
Affairs, for helping the department lure top-ranked faculty to the ed English
department. The increased faculty diversity has brought the department national
prestige, and more importantly, has broadened the intellectual foundations of the
department. This has led to the department's current status as being at the
forefront of the trend in which English departments are moving from an emphasis
on British and American literature to world literature written in English.
President Duderstadt then introduced Royster Harper, associate vice
president for student services, who talked about the needs and issues faced by
adolescents and young adults while attending a university, and the unique
additional issues that confront students of color. She noted that the Office of
Student Services recognizes the challenges and opportunities inherent in the


-237 -



May Meeting, 1991


Michigan Mandate, and pointed out that the diversity of the student body poses a
unique challenge for that office in terms of providing appropriate programs and
services that address the needs and expectations of all students. She described
various initiatives that the Office of Student Services has underway to accomplish
this.
President Duderstadt then opened the meeting up for discussion. Regent
Baker raised some questions that he has been asked about the Michigan Mandate:
1) Is it correct that the basic premise of the Mandate is proportional
representation at the University of the various ethnic groups in the state of
Michigan as a whole? How do you respond to the proposition that proportional
representation, rather than the traditional merit-based representation, is
practically and intellectually not the way to approach college admissions? 2) It
has been reported that Michigan has dropped in the ratings from "highly
competitive" to "competitive", and that SAT scores of admitted students had
declined five per cent. Is this information correct? 3) Has the process for hiring
faculty through the Target of Opportunity Program met the requirements of
federal and state civil rights laws?; i.e., do we exclude people who may be
qualified because they are not minority? 4) Is student financial aid fairly
distributed between all students?
Vice Provost Moody responded that the perception that standards are
lowered when dealing with people of color is incorrect; at no time in the history of
this or any other higher education institution have all students been equally
qualified. He also pointed out that newly hired faculty have outstanding
credentials, and are hired under a traditional competitive process of posting,
interviewing, meeting with faculty, etc., and that not all minority faculty are hired
under the Target of Opportunity Program.
Regent Baker asked Provost Moody to comment on the argument that the
goal of the Mandate is to have the student population proportionally represent
society at large, rather than to be admitted strictly on the basis of competitiveness.
Provost Moody said there is no base level or quota of minorities intended. The
goal is to ensure that there is a community that will bring the greatest strength to
the institution.
In response to a comment from Regent Baker regarding reports of
reductions in the University's selectivity and average SAT scores, President
Duderstadt asked Mr. Rick Shaw, director of admissions, to comment. Mr. Shaw
reported that the University's commitment to a student body consisting of 70 per
cent resident undergraduates has affected the SAT scores of admitted students,
because of the declining number of Michigan high school graduates. In addition,
the University is having to admit more and more out of state students to make the
freshman class, because more out of state students are declining to come to
Michigan because of the expense. Mr. Shaw stated that the overall score levels
have been reduced by 3-5 per cent, which is almost meaningless when considering
the standard deviations.
Vice Provost Moody noted that 75 per cent of all African American students
at the University of Michigan score above the national median on standardized
tests, and that their average test scores are equal to that of white students at


-238 -



May Meeting, 1991


Michigan State University. President Duderstadt reiterated that changes in
admissions standards have to do with demographics and the commitment to
certain in-state/out-state admissions ratios, and have nothing to do with the
Michigan Mandate. He also pointed out the Mandate would ultimately increase
the quality of the student body because it would be building a much larger pool of
qualified high school graduates.
Regent Baker pointed out that his comments about deficiencies in the K-12
public school system four years ago proved to be correct, even though at the time
he was criticized for them. In a similar fashion, he was now trying to lay out the
issues being raised about the University of Michigan by the people of the state,
and that it was important that the University respond to these.
Vice Provost Moody commented that the University has a number of
outreach programs designed to improve public elementary and secondary
education in the state.
Regent McFee noted that the needs of women also need to be addressed,
and that society is now realizing that it can't afford the costs of having people who
do not have the ability to compete in the marketplace. It is important to recognize
that statistics are not the goal, but just a measure of where we are in incorporating
everybody into society, and that the survival of the United States rests on our
ability to do this.
Regent Power commented that it is important for the University to respond
to the questions that have been raised about the Michigan Mandate. He also
raised the issue of the Mandate's being associated with the term "politically
correct", noting that although the idea of attitudinal consistency is offensive in a
university community, this phrase is sometimes used as a rationale for rolling back
progress made in the past. He pointed out that if we denominate the University as
a community that shares certain values, rather than as a community in which
people are defined by their race, gender, or other characteristics, then the
University is defined as a university which includes the widest possible range of
human opportunity.
Regent Baker stated that he had prepared a written statement on the topic
of politically correct speech, a copy of which was placed on file in the Office of the
Secretary of the University. Reading from the statement, Regent Baker quoted
from Benno C. Schmidt, Jr., president of Yale University, and Derek Bok, retiring
president of Harvard University, on the danger posed to freedom of expression on
college campuses by assuming that the purpose of education is to induce correct
opinion rather than to search for wisdom. These authors noted that some
instructors have been allowed to press their own views on students to the point of
indoctrination, and that to combat this, university administrators must make clear
that academic standards and intellectual freedom will be preserved.
Regent Baker also quoted from President Bush's commencement speech
that focused on the how political correctness on college campuses threatens
freedom of speech, and noted that the president had challenged the University to
take a leadership role in reversing this trend. As a first step, Regent Baker called


-239 -



May Meeting, 1991


for rescinding the University of Michigan Interim Policy on Discrimination and
Discriminatory Conduct by Students in the University, calling it the source
document for politically correct speech at the University. The next step would be
for all of the various University units to review and change their policies to return
free speech to its proper place at the University.
President Duderstadt commented that the real question associated with this
issue is the appropriate balance of academic values that characterize the
University commumty, and noted that there has been a history of attempts to stifle
speech on college campuses from all sides of the political spectrum. He pointed
out that the Umnversity's harassment policy is an interim one that would continue
to evolve. The president cautioned that this issue should not distract us from the
fundamental objectives of the Michigan Mandate.
Vice Provost Moody pointed out that political correctness is not a new phenomenon, and that it should not be allowed to draw us away from the goal of
diversity and multiculturalism.
Regent Varner agreed, and commented that it is important to support
efforts to truly integrate the achievements of all people as bona fide components
of university curricula. Regarding faculty hiring, she pointed out that standards
have not been lowered for minority faculty, as they are coming from the same
outstanding universities that white faculty come from. Similarly, if minority
students were not equally qualified as white students, they would not graduate,
and that unqualified white students would not graduate either. She stated that she
was very encouraged by the presentations, and looked forward to hearing about
efforts being made in other departments in future presentations.
Regent McFee agreed, noting that what is really being attempted is a
change in thought. She reported that her local community is dealing with some of
the same issues being addressed by the Mandate.
In response to a comment by Regent Baker, that as a public university the
University of Michigan has to answer questions posed by the people of the state,
President Duderstadt noted that because the University is supported by all of the
people of the state it had an obligation to serve all of the people of the state.
There being no further discussion, the meeting was adjourned. The next
meeting will take place June 13-14, 1991. Regents' transportation,
accommodation, telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of April
1991 totalled $1,297.96.
Ric ard L. Knnedy, Secrey


-240 -



JUNE MEETING, 1991


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 13, 1991
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, McFee, Nielsen, Power, Smith, Varner, and
Waters. Provost Whitaker, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Kelly, Swain, and Womack were also present, as was
Chancellor Wilson. Chancellor Jones was absent; Provost Wong was there in his
stead.
University of Michigan Hospitals Proposed 1991-92 Operating Budget
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and called on Vice President
Womack. Vice President Womack introduced Mr. John Forsyth, executive director of
the University of Michigan Hospitals, to present the proposed 1991-92 University of
Michigan Hospitals operating budget. Mr. Forsyth proceeded with a slide
presentation in which he outlined the hospitals' response over the past 10 years to the
challenge of balancing academic needs and health care financial realities. He
reported that non-patient-care positions (overhead positions) were frozen at the 1985
level, and since that time, more than 250 overhead positions had been cut. Since 1986,
over $30 million had been saved by reducing specific line items in the budget. Since
1982, admissions had increased by 30 per cent, the number of clinical visits had
increased by 83 per cent, and patient acuity levels had also increased by 19 per cent.
During the same period, the proportion of full-time equivalent employees involved in
direct patient care had increased from 46 per cent to 67 per cent, while the absolute
number of non-care-givers had declined by about 250.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Mr. Forsyth said that the
challenge over the next 10 years is to improve productivity in order to remain economically viable over the long term. He displayed further charts denoting various productivity measures, costs, expenses, and income, and described current challenges facing
the hospital. These include continuing existing levels of academic support, continuing
to focus growth and maximize use of fixed resources, maintaining the high quality staff
with a competitive compensation program, continuing to fund depreciation, improving
the payor mix, improving the hospital's competitive position, and breaking even on
operations in FY 1992. He noted that during FY 1991, the hospital had been very
successful financially, having had its third best operating margin ever of almost $34
million. Mr. Forsyth announced that although the hospital would need to fund a cost
increase of 6.6 per cent for 1991-92, it planned to break even for operations by
meeting certain employment and cost efficiency targets. This would allow the hospital
to improve its competitive position by asking for no increase in room rates for FY
1992. The projected FY 1992 operating revenue would increase by 5 per cent, while
operating expenses are projected to increase by 6.3 per cent, for a total operating
budget of $544,423,000.
Mr. Forsyth concluded by describing the hospital's plan for adjusting to the new
reality of the future by differentiating strategic health from financial health, being increasingly selective in growth, being more competitive on prices and costs, maximizing
its single legal entity status, continuing to influence public policy, opening new lines of
communication with business and industry, and remaining flexible in the face of the
evolution of a new health care delivery system.


-241 -



June Meeting, 1991


Following some discussion, Regent Power moved approval of the proposed FY
1991-92 University of Michigan Hospitals' operating budget without a daily service
rate increase. Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
President Duderstadt commended Mr. Forsyth and his colleagues for their skills in
managing the hospital and noted that the University of Michigan Hospitals have the
reputation for being the best managed academic medical center in the country.
Report of the University Task Force on Alcohol and Other Drugs
The president called on Dr. George Zuidema, chair of the Task Force on
Alcohol and Other Drugs, to present the task force report. Dr. Zuidema noted that
the task force had been appointed two years previously, and recognized fellow steering
committee members Beth Reed, Keith Bruhnsen, and Frederick Glaser. He reported
that alcohol is a highly significant problem that involves all segments of the University
community, and said that the committee planned to have extensive discussions with
student groups in the fall before the report is finally acted upon. He referred to a
handout summarizing the scope of the problem on the University of Michigan campus.
Dr. Zuidema reported that the charge to the task force was to develop a
university-wide strategic plan for dealing with the use of alcohol and other drugs,
drawing on available knowledge to evaluate existing policies, establish priorities,
recommend goals to guide decision-making, propose strategies to address deficiencies,
identify resources and leadership, integrate plans, policies, practices, and programs
into other areas of the University, and establish a mechanism for ongoing oversight.
He went on to describe the task force goals, the philosophical concepts and principles
reflected in the report, and special areas of concern that the task force addressed (e.g.
the serving and selling of alcoholic beverages, advertising, assistance, sanctions,
insurance, alcohol and drug testing, and security). He emphasized that the more
visible members of the University community (officers and other leaders) would be
held to a higher standard than would others, because of their function as examples and
role models.
Task Force Recommendations. Dr. Zuidema described the specific task force
activities that led to the drafting of the report and recommendations. He noted that
the report does not recommend prohibiting legal use of alcohol; it actively discourages
use of alcohol by individuals under 21 years of age; and it emphasizes prevention and
intervention rather than sanctions for individuals who have problems with substance
abuse. He summarized the 11 task force recommendations as follows: 1) develop a
coordinating and oversight mechanism for policy-making, programming, and
implementation within the central University administration; 2) perform a
comprehensive survey at periodic intervals to assess progress; 3) encourage all units to
develop comprehensive policies consistent with overall University policies; 4) include
the University's legal liability for behavior involved when developing policies; 5)
encourage all major units to adapt the University's principles to their own
circumstances; 6) develop a comprehensive prevention program; 7) create a range of
identification and treatment options; 8) establish the University's primary role one of
providing assistance; 9) encourage each unit to identify persons who would be
responsible for responding to problems within that unit; 10) adopt consistent, minimal
standards for insurance coverage throughout the University; and 11) drug testing
would not be used except as legally required.


-242 -



June Meeting, 1991


Recommended policies. Dr. Zuidema then enumerated the policies recommended for alcohol, tobacco, illicit drugs, and prescription medications and controlled
substances. For alcohol, while abstinence as an option is never discouraged;
moderate, legal, alcohol use is accepted. Excessive use of alcohol is discouraged, and
illegal behavior involving alcohol is not acceptable. Stricter standards of alcoholic
beverage use may apply to specific settings or tasks. The use of tobacco is
discouraged, and it is not acceptable where its use is prohibited by law or is harmful or
offensive to others. Possession, sale, and use of illicit drugs are not acceptable; nor are
excessive or illegal use of prescription medications, controlled substances, or other
legal drugs. Guidelines would be developed for serving, selling, and advertising
alcoholic beverages in University publications.
The final report will be reviewed with student, faculty, and staff groups, and
any modifications stemming from those reviews will be incorporated before formal
acceptance of the report and its recommendations is requested during the fall
semester. Dr. Zuidema described the recommended implementation steps, and
emphasized that the goal is for this set of initiatives to become a part of the fabric of
the institution.
Dr. Zuidema reported that the work of the task force has placed the University
in a leadership position among other institutions that are attempting to deal with this
problem. In addition, the National Institute for Drug Abuse has suggested that this
could become a model for other universities in the country.
Following the presentation, Dr. Zuidema responded to comments and
questions from the Regents. President Duderstadt emphasized that this problem is
not unique to the University, but that the models being developed at the University of
Michigan could perhaps be used at other institutions, as society tries to cope with this
problem.
University of Michigan Policy on Sexual Harassment by Faculty and Staff
President Duderstadt called on Provost Whitaker, who noted that a sexual
harassment policy had been in effect since 1980. However, since laws had changed
since that time and since there has been a desire to improve the climate for women on
campus, his office had been given the responsibility of revising the policy. Ms. E. Kay
Dawson, assistant to the provost, had developed the new policy after reviewing policies
in place at other universities and working with constituent groups on campus. The
policy had been discussed widely on campus, and had received the support of the
Senate Assembly and other campus groups. He reported that Ms. Dawson had
worked closely with the University's general counsel, Ms. Elsa Cole, in developing the
revised policy, and introduced Ms. Dawson and Ms. Cole to present the policy.
Ms. Dawson pointed out that the policy only concerns faculty, staff, and
students who are employees of the University; thus it encompasses teaching assistants,
but not students, the latter of whom are covered by the Interim Discriminatory
Harassment Policy. The definition of harassment is consistent with that of the U.S.
Supreme Court and with Michigan law; it provides notice to the University community
of employee behavior which is inappropriate and may be subject to discipline. Ms.
Dawson noted that for the first time, the policy addresses consensual relationships,
consistent with the 1986 faculty statement of principal which deems such behavior
professionally unethical. Although consensual relationships are not prohibited, the


-243 -



June Meeting, 1991


higher-ranking person must remove himself from responsibility for decisions affecting
the other person. This is consistent with the policy for nonfaculty employees. Ms.
Dawson noted that for the first time, this policy incorporates responses and procedures
for complaint handling, with more detailed guidelines being developed to supplement
the policy.
Mso Dawson emphasized that the policy is based on a problem-solving
approach, and is resolution-oriented. Adjudication and formal investigation is one of
a variety of options for resolution. The philosophy is to establish an environment of
trust so that victims will come forward to get help internally, without feeling the
necessity to go to court or other outside entities to get help in dealing with their
employment or academic situations. The belief is also that the University needs to
know about such conduct so that it can have the opportunity for education and
corrective action. The policy also provides for education and training programs to be
implemented once the policy is finally adopted in final form.
Regent Baker commented that given his bias for less, rather than more
regulation of campus life, this policy adds one more layer of constraint. He
enumerated his concerns with the policy as being that the University will keep track of
and try to regulate real or imagined sexual relationships between people; the accused
person may not have an opportunity to confront the accuser; the accused person
cannot have counsel at a hearing, so that there is no mechanism for defending that
person; there is no penalty against an individual who makes a false accusation; and
that due process takes second place. He noted that the University is attempting to
control conduct, giving strong tools to accusers without allowing for strong defense of
those accused, and that another mechanism for trying to control human conduct would
unnecessarily burden the institution.
President Duderstadt responded that this is designed to articulate policies that
have been in effect for over a decade. Ms. Cole pointed out that the U.S. Supreme
Court has directed employers to have in place policies which encourage victims of
harassment to come forward and which provide a prompt resolution of complaints of
sexual harassment. She pointed out that at the conclusion of an investigation,
individuals can avail themselves of the University's grievance procedure, which is the
point at which the general elements of due process come into play. In response to a
comment from Regent Baker, Ms. Cole said that she would recommend that an
investigation not be conducted unless that accuser is willing to be identified to the
alleged harasser. Regent Baker also noted that there is no provision for accused
persons to be represented by counsel during the investigation.
Regent Nielsen said that although he is in favor of having such a policy, he did
not believe that the University should police interpersonal relations between faculty,
staff, and students which go beyond harassment and include consenting romantic
relationships. Provost Whitaker noted that these are only a concern if one party is the
other's supervisor. Regent Nielsen said that the policy imposes an obligation on the
University to monitor relationships; once that obligation is created, a liability is
created if the University does not pursue what he believes exceeds the scope of sexual
harassment and is an invasion of privacy.
Provost Whitaker pointed out that the problem occurs when a teacher asks a
student for sexual favors in exchange for a grade. Ms. Cole noted that consensual
relationships are not forbidden under the policy, they are just not recommended. The


-244 -



June Meeting, 1991


liability occurs when there is retaliation after one party terminates a relationship.
That is why the statement is made warning of the repercussions that could occur if one
were to engage in a relationship where one party has power over the other.
Regent Brown said that he was in support of the policy, but was troubled by the
mention of sexual harassment that can occur between individuals of equal status or
rank. He also pointed out the policy's reference to unintended conduct that has
negative effects, noting that there is a lot of conduct that could fit that category. Ms.
Dawson responded that the expectation was that people who would be receiving
complaints would be able to counsel people as to whether certain specific conduct
actually constituted harassment. She emphasized that it is the consequences to the
victim, not the intent, that is being addressed. Further discussion followed about the
matter of unintentional conduct, and then about the role of the Office of Affirmative
Action in conducting formal investigations of charges brought under the policy.
Regent Baker commented that he was troubled by the policy's emphasis on
consequences to the victim, and that he believed implementation of the policy would
add to other layers of regulation of personal matters which have no place in a
university. He said he was philosophically opposed to that.
President Duderstadt responded that this is an attempt to codify procedures
that have already been in effect for ten years. He also pointed out that these issues
have been raised as a consequence of the University's being a part of the larger
society, many of whose elements are also dealing with them. Regent Baker reiterated
his opposition to this policy.
Regent Smith raised the issue of sanctions, and her fear that it would be
possible for them not to be uniformly applied. She also expressed concern that an
accused person may not have to be informed of accusations against the person, and
thus would be unable to defend himself or herself. Ms. Cole responded that sanctions
would be applied in consultation with a central office to ensure consistency across the
University. Ms. Dawson noted that Regent Smith's second concern had also been
expressed and debated by the faculty. Regent Brown said this illustrated the difficulty
of drafting such a policy, and that although some changes were necessary, he would
support it.
In response to Regent Smith's reference to a case in which a visiting professor
had been accused of sexually harassing a student, Ms. Cole stated that the University
had an interest in defending the person who had come forward, so that no disincentives would be created against coming forward. She reiterated that the Supreme
Court had created an obligation on the part of the University to create a policy that
encourages people to do this. Regent Smith expressed her view that the incident in
question had been badly handled by the University, and that something should be
written into the new policy to prevent such an incident from happening again.
Regent McFee commented that the purpose of the policy was to address the
University's actions and responsibilities in its role as an employer. In recognizing that
sexual harassment does occur and that males are more often in positions of power
than females, she pointed out that the major concern in protecting female employees
from that kind of harassment was to take due caution not to overstep our bounds in
addressing this. She also noted that there is a risk of developing a situation where


-245 -



June Meeting, 1991


people might believe they were harassed when in fact no such harassment had
occurred.
Regent Varner spoke in support of the policy, noting the great interest it had
generated among University faculty and staff. She pointed out that the policy
amounted to professional policing in which the faculty would apply ethical standards
to itself, making it an integrity issue with each faculty member.
In response to a comment from Regent Nielsen, Ms. Dawson reported that in
formulating this policy, she had reviewed policies at a number of other institutions.
Ms. Cole noted that this policy is about in the middle compared with policies in effect
at educational institutions nationwide.
Regent Waters suggested a language change that might clarify the intent of the
language regarding the negative effects of unintentional conduct. Following further
discussion, President Duderstadt commented that the policy would undergo some fine
tuning before it takes effect.
Public Comments
There being no people signed up to speak at Public Comments, there followed
a ten minute recess.
The meeting resumed at 3:55 P.M.
Minutes
Consideration of the minutes of the meeting of May 16-17, 1991, was deferred.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations, and responded to questions
from the Regents about them.
Vice President Kelly submitted reports of Projects Established-Research and
Other Academic Activities and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects for the Month of May 1991. On a motion by Regent Nielsen,
seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted Summary Reports, Detail Reports, and a
Listing of Gifts Received for the month of May 1991. He commented that although
the total amount of gifts received was 5.4 per cent ahead of the same time the previous
year, he was concerned that the value of gifts from individuals was down by 22 per cent
over the previous year. The Regents received the following gifts with thanks and in
accordance with their terms and conditions:
AT&T Information Systems, Morristown, New Jersey
for the Michigan Human Resources Partnership Program in the School of Business
Administration                                                 15,000


-246 -



June Meeting, 1991


Robert B. Aikens, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                           50,000
American Cancer Society, nc. Atlanta Georgia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Medical
School, and the College of Pharmacy                                         145,778
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                            8,250
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                   103,681
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           10,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for student fellowships and special program support in the School of Business
Administration, and the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science
and the Arts                                                                123,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research m the Medical School                                            17,583
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
Frederick P. Bamberger Trust
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   18,071
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship                          34,521
Betz Foundry, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Biogen, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                              70,000
Book Inventory Systems, Inc., Ann Arbor
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
George H. Boyce, Kingsford
28,775 shares of RJR Nabisco corporate bonds; for the Dr. George H. Boyce Fund,
a Donor Pooled Income contribution for the ultimate benefit of the University of
Michigan                                                                     29,103
Walter S. Brown Estate
for research in the Medical School                                           11,970
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                                   302,338
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            9,582
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Highland Park
for scholarships and fellowships in the College of Engineering               21,500
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for research in the School of Public Health                                  19,719
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for research in the School of Public Health                                  60,000
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Fluid Dynamics in the College of Engineering  16,500
Peter C. Cook, Grand Rapids
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                 10,000
Sophia Dawson Estate
for undergraduate student aid                                                 5,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           20,000
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
for Spring Commencement 1991, and for Employee Matching Gifts                 8,115
Digital Equipment Corporation, Marlborough, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
Wilburn Ira Dobbs Estate
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                                200,000
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics                7,250
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  17,801
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmmgton, Delaware
for the du Pont Funds and other support in the Schools of Business Administration
and Medicine, and in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                    156,000
FMC Corporation, Princeton, New Jersey
for the FMC Corporation Fund in the College of Engineering                    5,000


-247 -



June Meeting, 1991


First Congregational Church, Ann Arbor
for the Black American Music Symposium in the School of Music                6,500
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Law and Social Work, and the Institutes of
Public Policy Studies and Social Research                                   87,186
Foundation for Child Development, New York, New York
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development                  5,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  8,845
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship                             6,791
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                     15,000
General Dynamics, St. Louis, Missouri
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,210
General Mills, nc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Associates Program in the School of Business Administration          6,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for the Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation Fund in the College of Engineering  100,000
Hubert W. Gouldthorpe, Naples, Florida
100 shares of General Electric Corporation common stock; for unrestricted
support of the College of Engineering                                        7,119
William T. Grant Foundation New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work, and the Institute for Social Research  159,120
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society                                           7,500
Nora C. Hagen Estate
for research in the Medical School                                          40,000
Halliburton Services, Division of Halliburton Company, Duncan, Oklahoma
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Fluid Dynamics in the College of Engineering  16,500
J. Ira & Nicki Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                 5,000
Arnold Henson, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Allan F. Smith Scholarship in the Law School                         5,000
Hereditary Disease Foundations Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School                                          10,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for the Community Dentistry Program in the Dental School                     5,000
William & Flora Hewlett Foundation Menlo Parks California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the School of
Public Health                                                              180,000
IMRA America, Inc.~ Ann Arbor
for research m the College of Engineering                                   25,000
J. W. & Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for International Faculty Development in the School of Business Administration  40,000
Jewish Welfare Federation of Detroit
for research in the School of Social Work                                   39,700
Johnson Controls, Inc., Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the College of Engineering                                  10,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contributions Fund, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gis                                                    7,160
Joyce Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Public Health                                 25,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario, Canada
for research in the Medical School                                          13,500
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                          17,250
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Medical School 362,765
Knight Foundation, Akron, Ohio
for the Knight Specialty Fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies                                                                    100,000
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for project support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts     15,000
Richard P. Kughn, Southfield
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics              25,000
Louis A. Kwiker, Torrance, California
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                           5,000


-248 -



June Meeting, 1991


Jeffrey B. Lane Hewlett Harbor, New York
for the Nancy and Jeffrey Lane Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        10,000
Lear Seating Corporation, Southfield
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Program in the College of Engineering      20,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      20,000
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis Indiana
for research in the School of Social Work                                    46,264
Lockheed Missiles & Space Company Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for the Robotics Industria Affliates Program in the College of Engineering   15,000
Lupus Society of the Arthritis Foundation Toledo, Ohio
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            400,000
MacArthur Foundation Network on Mid-Life Development, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            66,392
Marathon Oil Company, Findlay, Ohio
for the Industrial Affiliates Program in Fluid Dynamics in the College of Engineering  16,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation. White Plains, New York
for research in the Schools of Dentistry and Public Health                   13,750
James S. McDonnell Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for research in the Medical School                                           59,528
Randall E. Mehrberg, Chicago, Illinois
for the Samuel and Harold M. Shapero Fund in the Law School                   5,000
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,260
Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,585
Microwave Associates, Inc., Burlington, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering                                   10,000
Dorothy E. Millard Estate
for the President's Fund                                                     12,731
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 3M Graduate Materials Science Fellowship and other support in the College of
Engineering, and for support in the Medical School                           17,000
Minnesota  ining and Manufacturing Foundation Inc. St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 3M Graduate Materials Science Fellowship in the College of Engineering, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,080
Mitsui Mutual Life Insurance Company, Tokyo, Japan
for the Mitsui Life Financial Research Center in the School of Business
Administration                                                              600,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tuscon, Arizona
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
NBD Bank, Detroit
for Spring Commencement 1991, and for Employee Matching Gifts                12,020
N.C.R. Corporation, Dayton, Ohio
for computer research in the College of Engineering                          25,000
National Alliance for the Mentally Ill, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                           35,000
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           24,150
National Semiconductor Corporation West Jordan, Utah
for support in the College of Engineering                                    10,000
Clifford T. Nelson Estate
for the Clifford T. Nelson Endowment in the School of Dentistry               5,321
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Park Ridge, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           15,445
Perceptron, Inc Farmington Hills
for the Dr. Ta-You Wu Physics Book Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 20,000
Pfizer, Inc., Groton, Connecticut
for the Building Fund in the College of Pharmacy                             35,000
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                       5,000
Jeffrey M. & Barbara Picower Foundation, New York, New York
for unrestricted student aid                                                 10,000
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   8,000


-249 -



June Meeting, 1991


Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Funds and other support in the School of Business
Administration, Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and the President's Office                                                   70,000
Douglas P. Rearick, Brighton
for the Rearick Graduate Student Support Fund in the School of Education     10,000
Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr., Winnetka, Illinois
for the Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr., Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School  50,000
Rockefeller Foundation New York, New York
for research in the Schools of Law and Public Health and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           120,907
Rockwell International Corporation Trust, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,230
Shape Corporation, Grand Haven
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics               10,000
Siemens Medical Systems, Inc., Iselin New Jersey
for the Siemens Gift Fund in the Medical School                              689000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research m the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             178,000
Herbert Sloan, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the David G. Dickinson Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School,
and for support of the Museum of Art and the University Musical Society      12,500
Rollin M. Smith Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       15,011
Smith Kline Beecham, King of Prussia Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      20,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation Washington, D.C.
for research in the Medical School                                           15,808
Standard Products Company, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering          5,000
William Stanton Estate
2,675 shares of various corporate and utility common stocks; for the William
Stanton Fund for Student Assistance in the School of Nursing                 97,189
Wilma Steketee-Bean, Ann Arbor
cash gift for the Wilma Steketee-Bean Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the
ultimate benefit of the School of Nursing                                    50,000
Sterling Drug, Inc., Malvern, Pennsylvania
for the Pharmacology Centennial Fund in the Medical School, and for Faculty
Awards in the College of Engineering                                         12,000
Irvin Stern Foundation Chicago, Illinois
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 20,000
Donald W. and Margo Fox Sting, New Canaan, Connecticut
for the R. Timothy Leedy Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Aaron M. Strefling, Palo Alto, California
for the Swimming and Diving Facility in the Department of Athletics          10,00
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Manufacturing Initiatives Fund in the College of Engineering         25,000
Tarus Products, Inc., Sterling Heights
for research in the College of Engineering                                   12,500
Time Warner, Inc., New York, New Yorlk
for the Time Fellowship in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                       5,750
James R. Tindall, Omaha, Nebraska
425 shares of Quaker Oats Company common stock; for the James and Jean Tindall
Dean's Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  24,809
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for student aid in the Center for the Education of Women                     25,000
Trenton Firefighters Association, Trenton
for the Burn Research and Education Fund in the Medical School               11,635
Twin Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Preston W. Slosson Fellowship and the Bockman/Hall Fellowship in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                 24,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for scholarships in the School of Business Administration                     5,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            6,083
University Microfilms International, Ann Arbor
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                  5,000


-250 -



June Meeting, 1991


Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for the Sports Service Building in the Department of Athletics, and for the Clements
Library                                                                     20,500
Varnum Riddering, Schmidt and Howlett, Grand Rapids
for unrestricted capital support of the Law School                          35,000
Ruth 0. Waldron Estate
for the Ruth 0. Waldron Fund in the College of Engineering                 242,855
Warner-Lambert Company Morris Plains, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 11,634
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for Spring Commencement 1991                                                 5,000
Hans Weichsel, Fort Worth, Texas
200 shares of Textron, Inc., common stock; for Aerospace Building Gifts in
the College of Engineering                                                   6,513
Ada Belle Clark Welsh Estate
for the Ada Belle Clark Welsh Scholarship in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                             6,500
Winslow Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Natural Resources                             25,000
World Health Organization Zurich, Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                     22,000
Youth Foundation of America, Petoskey
for the Shady Trails Camp                                                   12,000
Zenkel Foundation, New York, New York
for the Lois and Bruce Zenkel Funds in the School of Business Administration
and College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Sports Service
Building and scholarships m the Department of Athletics                     35,000
The following nonmonetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Virginia J. Ehrlicher, Ann Arbor
refurbished and restored, 61 bell Whitechapel set, 13 bell display set, and two momento bells; for
the School of Music
Ford Motor oo Company Dearborn
a Hewlett Pacard gas chromatograph; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of
Natural Sciences
Dorothy Gruehn Sebewaning
a multi-channel cochlear imlant system; for the Department of Otolaryngology
IBM Corporation, Southbury, Connecticut
an IBM RS/6000Q Model 320 Powerstation, and an IBM 3390-B1C Disk Unit; for the Information
Technology Division
Neil O. Leighton, lint
229hNardback books and 150 paperbacks; for the University of Michigan-Flint Library
Castle E. Parker, Murray, Kentucky
Henry Ford's watchmaker's lathe and workbench; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Howard L. Wikel, Ann Arbor
an original watercolor rendition of the University of Michigan Intramural Building, circa 1928; for
the Department of Athletics
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Timothy Chupp, Ph.D. Associate Professor of Physics
Jonathan Freedman Ph.D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature
Katherine Freese, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Physics
Simon E. Gikandi, Ph.D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature
Elliot K. Ginsburg, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies and Judaic Studies
Larry B. Kramer, J.D. Professor of Law, July 1, 1991
Lung-Fei Lee, Ph.D., Professor of Economics


-251 -



June Meeting, 1991


Neil M. Malamuth Ph.D., Professor of Communication, with tenure, Professor of Psychology, without
tenure, an Chair of the Department of Communication, for a five-year period
Bruce Mannheim Ph.D, Associate Professor of Anthropology
Mireille Rosello, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures
Satwant K. Samra M.D., Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, July  1991
Jacqueline L. Zeff, Ph.D. Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, and Professor of English,
UM-Flint, for a tiree-year period, July 8, 1991
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
William R. Anderson Associate Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Director of the Herbarium,
reappointed Director of the Herbarium, for a two-year period, July 1, 1991
Violet H. Barkauskas, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure and Associate Dean for
Administration, School of Nursing, reappointed Associate bean for Administration, School of
Nursing, for a twenty-two month period August 1, 1991
Francis X. Blouin, Jr., Director of the Bentley Historical Library, Professor of Information and
Library Studies, with tenure School of Information and Library Studies, and Professor of History,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed Director of the Bentley
Historical Library, for a five-year period, July 1, 1991
Arthur W. Burks, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engneering and Computer Science and Professor
Emeritus of Philosophy reappointed to active status, for a three-month period June 1, 1991
William L. Cash, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to active status, fall term
David G. Dickinson, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to active
status for a one-year period
Marvin Eisenberg, Professor Emeritus of History of Art, reappointed to active status, fall term
Joseph J. Firebaugh, Professor Emeritus of Engfsh, reappointed to active status, University year
Richard W. Fortner, Dean, School of Management, UM-Flint, and Professor of Management, with
tenure, UM-Flint, reappointed Dean, School of Management, UM-Flint, for a one-year period,
July 1, 1991
John R. G. Gosling, Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, reappointed to active
status, for a one-year period
Ruth M. Heyn, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to active
status, for a one-year period, Jul 1, 1991
Harold K. Jacobson, Interim Associate Vice President for International Academic Affairs, Director of the
Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, and Jesse Siddal Reeves Professor
of Political Science, with tenure, appointment extended as Interim Associate Vice President for
International Academic Affairs, for a one-year period, August 1, 1991, and reappointed Director
of the Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research, for a five-year period,
July 1, 1991
Shake Ketefian, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of
Nursing, reappointed Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of Nursing, for a two-year
period
RaleighMorgan, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Romance Linguistics, reappointed to active status fall term
Rhoads Murphey, Professor Emeritus of History, reappointed to active status, for a ten-montl period,
June 17, 1991
Warren G. Palmer Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and Associate
Professor Emeritus of Library Science, School of Information and Library Studies, reappointed to
active status, University vear
Willis C. Patterson, Professor of Music, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of Music, appointment
extended as Associate Dean, School of Music, for a three-year period, July 1,1991
Ernst Pulgram, Hayward Keniston Professor Emeritus of Romance an Classical Linguistics, reappointed
to active status, fall term
Suzanne M. Selig, Coordinator of the School of Health Professions and Studies, UM-Flint, Director of the
Health Care Program, UM-Flint, and Associate Professor of Health Care, with tenure, UM-Flint,
reappointed Coordinator of the School of Health Professions and Studies, UM-Flint, for a
three-year period, July 1, 1991
Herbert Sloan, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period,
July 1, 1991
J. Radcliffe Squires, Professor Emeritus of English, reappointed to active status, University year
William Steinioff, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to active status,
fall term
Aaron M. Stern, Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to active
status, for a one-year period, December 1, 1991
William B. Taylor Professor Emeritus of Dermatology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period, July 1, 1991
Joseph E. Vaughn, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Education, reappointed to active status,
fall term


-252 -



June Meeting, 1991


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
Barbara A. Anderson, from Professor of Sociology, with tenure, to Professor of Sociology, with tenure,
and Director of the Population Studies Center: for a three-year period, July 1, 1991
Giles G. Bole, from Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure and Interim Dean, Medical School, to
Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Dean, Medical School, for a five-year period,
July 1 1991
Paul Danos, from Arthur Andersen Professor of Accounting, with tenure, to Arthur Andersen Professor
of Accounting, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, for a
three-year period, July 1,1991
Alan V. Deardorff, from Professor of Economics and Public Policy Studies with tenure, to Professor
of Economics and Public Policy Studies, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Economics,
for a four-year period, July 1, 1991
Patricia Y. Gurin, from Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, with tenure, to Professor of
Psychology and Women's Studies, wit itenure, and Chair of the Department of Psychology, for a
five-year period
Jeffrey G. Heath, from Professor of Linguistics with tenure to Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
and Acting Director of the Program in inguistics, for a one-year period
James S. Jackson, from Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Research
Scientist, Institute for Social Research, and Associate Dean for Graduate Student
Recruitment and Retention, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, to Professor of
Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Research Scientist, Institute for Social
Research, Associate Dean for Student Recruitment and Retention, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, and Acting Director, Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute for Social
Research for a nine-month period
Shake Ketefian, from Associate Dean for Graduate Studies School of Nursing, and Professor of Nursing,
with tenure, to Acting Dean, School of Nursing, and Professor of Nursing, with tenure, for
a one-year period, September 1, 1991
Howard A. Kimeld-orf, from Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, to Associate Professor of
Sociology, with tenure, and Acting Director of the Center for Research on Social Organization,
fall term
Thomas C. Kinnear, from Professor of Marketing, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of Business
Administration, to Professor of Marketing, with tenure and Senior Associate Dean, School of
Business Administration, for a three-year period, July i, 1991
Sylvan Kornblum, from Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School, to Professor of Psychology,
with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Earl Lewis, from Associate Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure,
Interim Director of the Center for Afroamerican and African Studies, to Associate Professor of
History and Afroamerican and African Studies, with tenure, and Director of the Center for
Afroamerican and African Studies, for a two-year period, July 1, 1991
Jeffery M. Paige, from Professor of Sociology, with tenure, to Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and
Acting Director of the Center for Research on Social Organization, winter term, January 1, 1992
The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Robert M. Darvas, or a two-year period, ending June 30, 1993, vice Henry S. Kowalewski, term expired
Margaret E. Dewar, for a two-year period, ending June 30, 1993, vice Gerald E. Crane, term expired
Katharine P. Warner, for a one-year period, ending June 30, 1992, vice Hemalata Dandekar, term expired
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Katarina. Borer, for a two-year period, ending June 30, 1993, vice Guy G. Reiff term expired
David J. Moore, for a two-year period, ending June 30,1993, vice Bernard P. Mafoy, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Peter G. Hinman, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice Stephen E. Kesler, term
expired
Stuart Y. McDougal, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice Stephen L. Darwall, term
expired
Kenneth E. Warner, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice Shake Ketefian, term
expired
Karen K. Wixson, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice J. Frank Yates, term expired


-253 -



June Meeting, 1991


Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
John R. Chamberlin, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice John G. Cross
Richard I. Ford, for a two-year period, ending June 30, 1993 vice June E. Osborn, term expired
Patricia Y. Gurm for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice Abigail J. Stewart, term expired
Arlene W. Saxonouse, for a two-year period, ending June 30, 1993, vice Harold R. Johnson, term expired
B. Joseph White, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice James E. Crowfoot, term expired
Medical School Executive Committee
Laurence A. Boxer, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice John Greden term expired
Thomas D. Gelehrter, for a three-year period, ening August 31, 1994, vice Bruce Carlson, term expired
Middle English Dictionarv Council
Richard W. Bailey, for a two-year period, ending June 30, 1993, to succeed himself
Jay L. Rob ison, for a two-year period, ending une 30, 1993, vice Robert L. Kyes, term expired
School of Art Executive Committee
Louis M Marinaro, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice Kenneth W. Baird, term expired
Theodore K. Ramsay, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice Takeshi Takahara, term expired
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Richard-P. Bagozzi, for a two-year period, ending June 30, 1993, vice C. K. Prahalad, term expired
George J. Siedfel III, for a two-year period, ending June 30 1993, vice Roger Kormendi, term expired
Joel B. Slemrod, for a two-year period, ending June 30, 1993, vice Karl Weick, term expired
School of Music Executive Committee
Joanne A Smith, for a three-year period, ending June 30 1994, vice Martin Katz term expired
School of Natural Resources Executive Committee
Rachel Kaplan, for a two-year period, ending May 31 1993 vice Terry Brown term expired
Steven L. Yaffee, for a two-year period, ending May 31, 1993, vice Bunyan I. tryant, Jr., term expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
James E. Martin, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice John H. Romani, term expired
David Schottenfeld, for a three-year period, endmg August 31, 1994, vice David H. Garabrant, term
expired
University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
John W. KigdonTor a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice John E. Jackson, term expired
Sabine G. MacCormack, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice Elaine K. Gazda, term
expired
William R. Paulson, for a three-year period, ending August 31, 1994, vice L. Ross Chambers, term expired
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Judith J. Kollmann, for a three-year period, ending June 30 1994, vice Douglas E. Miller, term expired
Leslie P. Moch, for a three-year period, ending June 30, 1994, vice Paul K. Peterson, term expired
Leave of absence extension. The Regents approved an extension of the leave
of absence for Martin B. Einhorn, Professor of Physics.
Change in tenure status. The Regents approved a change in the title of
Raymond R. Reilly from Associate Professor of Business Administration, with tenure,
to Professor of Business Administration, without tenure, for a five-year period,
effective September 1, 1991. He retains the title of Director of Executive Programs.
Visiting Netherlands Professor of Psychology. The Regents approved the
appointment of Willem Koops as the Visiting Netherlands Professor of Psychology for
the academic year 1991-92.
Toyota Visiting Associate Professor of Japanese Studies. The Regents
approved the appointment of Jennifer Robertson as the Toyota Visiting Professor of
Japanese Studies for the period July 1-December 31, 1991.


-254 -



June Meeting, 1991


Max Kade Visiting Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures. The
Regents approved the appointment of Peter Wiesinger as the Max Kade Visiting
Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures for the fall term, 1991.
Assistant Dean and Admissions Officer of the Law School. The Regents
approved the appointment of Dennis J. Shields as Assistant Dean and Admissions
Officer of the Law School, for a three-year period, effective July 1, 1991.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Barbara J. Mace, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Economics
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Brian B. Schmidt, Th.M., Assistant Professor of Hebrew Bible
Medical School
Margit Burmeister, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, Department of Human Genetics, and
Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, Department of Psychiatry, May 1, 1991
Michael Hortsch, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, May 1 1991
Linda B. Ludwig M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, April 1, 1991
Norma J. Maxvold, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, April 8, 1991
Juanita L. Merchant M.D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of
Physiology, Jul 1, 1991
Linda C. Samueson, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physiology June 1, 1991
Leon M. Waxtein, M.D., Lecturer in Dermatology, May 20, 1991
Milton F. White, M.D., Lecturer in Opthalmology, July 7, 1991
UM-Flint College ofArts and Sciences
Marianne P. McGrath, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Medical School
Jon N. Meliones, from Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Assistant
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Assistant Professor of Surgery,
December 1, 1990
Karin M. Muraszko from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Department of
Surgery, and Assistant Professor of Surgery, Department of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, July 1, 1991
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Engineering
Kevin J. Compton, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
H. Scott Fogler the Vennema Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 1991
James S. Freudenberg, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31 1991, and January 1-May 31, 1993
Henryk Skolimowski, Professor of Humanitites, with tenure, leave without pay, January 1-May 31, 1991


-255 -



June Meeting, 1991


Law School
Catharine A. MacKinnon, Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1-May 31, 1992
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Albert C. Cain, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 1991, and
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 199i,
Kathleen M. Canning, Assistant Professor of History, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1991 -May 31, 199Z
C. Tristram Coffin, Professor of Physics with tenure personal leave, September 1-December 31 1991
Robert D. Fogel, Associate Professor of Botany, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Associate Curator of Fungi, Herbarium and Associate Professor of Biology, without tenure,
School of Natural Resources, duty off campus, June 14-October 1, 1991
John L. Harer, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, personal leave, September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
Kai Hauser, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
James L. Hilton, Assistant Professor of Psychology, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1992
Lawrence W. Jones, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1991
Robert L. Kyes, Professor of German, with tenure, and Chair of the Department of Germanic Languages
and Literatures, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31 1991
Kenneth A. Lockridge, Professor of History, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1991 -May 31, 1992
John W. Lott Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1991 -May 31, 1992
Richard D. Mann, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 1991 -May 31, 1992
Donald I. Meyer, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1992
Richard E. Nisbett, Director of the Research Center for Group Dynamics and Theodore M. Newcomb
Professor of Psychology, with tenure sabbatical leave September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
Jeffery M. Paige, Professor ofSociology, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -December 31, 1991
Byron P. Roe, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
Rebecca J. Scott, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1991 -May 31, 1992
Larry Selinker, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 1991
leave without salary, September 1-December 31, 1991,
Edward A. Shpiz, T. H. Hfldebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave without salary,
September 1,1991-May 31, 1992
Claude M. Steele, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1991 -May 31,1992
Ronald G. Suny, Alex Manoogian Professor of Modern Armenian History, with tenure, duty off campus,
September 1,1991-May 31 1992
Michael W. Traugott, Professor of'Communication, special duty, June 1-August 31, 1991
Medical School
Dorit A. Silver, Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure extended sick leave, May 22 -June 30, 1991
School of Music
James Dapogny, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Music and Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1992
Leslie W. Guinn, Professor of Music (Voice), with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1991
Martin E. Katz, Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1-May 31,1992
Marilyn Mason, Professor of Music (Organ), with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1992
Catherine A. Nadon-Gabrion, Associate Professor of Music (Music Education), with tenure, School of
Music, and Lecturer in Education, School of Education, sabbatical leave January 1-May 31, 1992
Stuart Sankey, Professor of Music (Double Bass), with tenure, sabbatical leave. January 1-May 31, 1992
Roland J. Wiley, Associate Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 1992
School of Nursinm
Cecilia E. Dawkins, Assistant Professor of Nursing, personal leave, September 1, 1991-May 31, 1992
UM-Dearborn College of Arts. Sciences and Letters
Richard M. Dahike Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31 1991
David A. James, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31 1991
Bruce R. Maxim Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, and Professor of Computer and Information Science, without
tenure, Division of Interdisciplinary Studies, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 1991


-256 -



June Meeting, 1991


UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
James W. Knight, Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1991-April 30, 1992
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Loretta J. Dauwe, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1991 -May 31, 1992
Margaret F. Kahn, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1991
Lawrence D. Kugler, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -December 31, 1991
Garry W. Owens, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 1992
UM-Flint School of Management
Walker E. Fesmire Associate Professor of Accounting, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -May 31, 1992
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1991, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Joanna L. Dougherty, Assistant Professor of Architecture College of Architecture and Urban Plan Pning,
and Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, School of aturalesources
School of Business Administration
Dean Crawford, Assistant Professor of Accounting
School of Dentristr
Lindsey Flore Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1991
Dina Hinkley-Cocco, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30, 1991
Donald E. Laturno, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, June 30, 1991
James P. Lee, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1991
Francis J. Maly, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 30 1991
Adam T. Parsons, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 50, 1991
Prabha Raju, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1991
Joseph A. Regezi, Professor of Dentistry with tenure, June 30, 1991
Ronald P. Shaffer, Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Kevin M. Sloan, Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Roger C. Smith, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1991
Christa M. Tapert, Lecturer in Dentistry
College of Enneerin
Robert L. Hess, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure
Edward R. Lady, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Robert F. Berkhofer, Jr., Professor of History, with tenure
Nancy Cantor, Associate Dean for Faculty Programs Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 1991
Michael Fotiadis, Assistant Professor of Classical Studies and Assistant Professor of History of Art
Gary A. Hawes, Assistant Professor of Political Science
William J. Holinger, Lecturer in English Language and Literature
Mark L. McPhair, Lecturer in English Composition, June 30, 1991
Thomas F. Roser, Assistant Professor of Physics
Medical School
Luretta S. Deschner, Instructor in Anesthesiology
Vickie L. Massey, Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, April 11, 1991
Nancy S. Palchik, Assistant Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education,
May 4, 1991
Peter G. Pryde, Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, June 30, 1991
School of Music
Adelyn P. Leverett, Assistant Professor of Music
Dale E. Monson, Assistant Professor of Music (Music History/Musicology), August 31, 1991


-257 -



June Meeting, 1991


School of Nursing
Joyce M. Jenkins, Assistant Professor of Nursing
Pamela E. Taucher, Lecturer in Nursing
College of Pharmacy
John G. Wagner, John G. Searle Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, and
Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure, Medical School, June 30, 1991
School of Public Health
Lawrence H. Moulton, Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, June 30, 1991
Howard S. Zuckerman, Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure,
July 31, 1991
School of Social Work
Paul A. Wilson, Associate Professor of Social Work
UM-Flint Management
Larry E. Mainstone, Associate Professor of Management, June 30, 1991
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent McFee, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Robert F. Berkhofer, Jr., professor of history, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1991, to take up a position as professor of history at the University of California at
Santa Cruz.
Professor Berkhofer earned his B.A. degree from the State University of New York
at Albany in 1953 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Cornell University in 1955 and
1960, respectively. He has taught with distinction at The Ohio State University, the
University of Minnesota, and the University of Wisconsin at Madison. He joined the
faculty of the University of Michigan as a professor of history in 1973 and also served as
director of the Program in American Culture.
An especially productive scholar with a world-wide reputation, Professor Berkhofer
earned distinction with the publication of his first book, Salvation and the Savage: An
Analysis of Protestant Missions and American Indian Response, 1782-1862, published in 1965.
In 1979, he published The White Man's Indian: Images of the American Indian from
Columbus to the Present. He has also earned distinction with his analysis of behavioral
approaches to historical analysis. In 1969, he published a volume on this subject and has
contributed a large number of scholarly essays as well.
The recipient of the University of Michigan's highest faculty recognition awards,
Professor Berkhofer was a senior fellow at the Michigan Society of Fellows from 1983-87,
and received the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1987. In 1988, he was a
senior fellow at the Stanford Humanities Center. He has also served as a founding member
and executive committee associate of the Social Science History Association and is on the
editorial board of six scholarly journals.
Professor Berkhofer has earned an international reputation in the area of
perceptivity and imagery, currently subsumed out of the rubric "representation." While he
has focused on representations of American Indians, his analysis has ranged very broadly.
Such range has also been displayed in his work on various historical methodologies. One of
his most recent articles was entitled "The Challenge of Poetics to (Normal) Historical
Practice," and appeared in Poetics Today.
The Regents now salute this distinguished historian for his dedicated service by
naming Robert F. Berkhofer, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History.
Julius S. Cohen, professor of education, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
1991, after 23 years of service to the University of Michigan.


-258 -



June Meeting, 1991


Professor Cohen received his B.A. degree from Syracuse University in 1949 and his
M.A. and Ed.D. degrees from Teachers College, Columbia University, in 1950 and 1962,
respectively. He worked as a teacher of the educable mentally retarded in the New York
City public schools and the South Fallsburgh, New York, public schools from 1950-55.
From 1955-57, Professor Cohen served as a psychological assistant for the U.S. Army and
from 1957-61, he directed the vocational services at the Johnstone Training and Research
Center in Bordentown, New Jersey. Professor Cohen served on the faculty at Syracuse
University from 1961-67, at which time he joined the University of Michigan as associate
director of the Institute for the Study of Mental Retardation and Related Disabilities and
associate professor of education. He was promoted professor in 1971 and appointed deputy
director of the institute in 1972.
As deputy director of the University of Michigan's Institute for the Study of Mental
Retardation and Related Disabilities, Professor Cohen served as project director on many
grants funded by the U.S. Departments of Education and of Health and Human Services.
At the same time, he taught both graduate and undergraduate courses in the School of
Education's Special Education Program and served as dissertation advisor to a number of
School of Education graduate students. Professor Cohen's numerous publications cover a
range of topics, including the legal rights of citizens with mental retardation and the
development of mental retardation policy.
Professor Cohen's expertise made him a sought-after consultant and advisor for a
number of organizations and institutions. From 1976-78, he served as a special advisor to
the President's Committee on Mental Retardation and from 1980-84, he was a member of
the Michigan State Planning Council for Developmental Disabilities. His consulting
assignments have included the Milwaukee public schools, the New York State Division of
Vocational Rehabilitation, and the New Jersey Division of Mental Retardation,
Department of Human Services.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Julius S. Cohen Professor
Emeritus of Education.
Roger A. Cunningham, James V. Campbell Professor of Law, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 1991, after a distinguished career of teaching and research.
Born in Paxton, Illinois, in 1921, Professor Cunningham received his S.B. degree in
1942 from Harvard University and his LL.B. degree in 1948 from Harvard University Law
School. Following graduation, he practiced law in Boston and then turned to a teaching
career at Harvard University, George Washington University, and Rutgers University.
Professor Cunningham came to the University of Michigan Law School as professor of law
in 1959 and was appointed James V. Campbell Professor of Law in 1987.
Professor Cunningham has devoted his professional life as both teacher and scholar
to the field of property law. His regular course and seminar offerings have included the
introductory course in property, land finance law, land use control, and eminent domain. In
addition to having authored a successful casebook for the property course, Basic Property
Law, Professor Cunningham is coauthor of the books Land Financing, Planning and Control
of Law Development, and The Law of Real Property. His numerous articles span the full
range of property topics, from such traditional subjects as disguised mortgage transactions,
to implied warranties of habitability and regulatory takings. He has been active in other
ways as well, serving for a decade as a member of a National Cooperative Highway
Research Program Advisory Committee for the Transportation Research Board, and from
1980 onward as a member of the National Conference of Bar Examiners Multistate Bar
Examination Property Drafting Committee. He has been a warmly appreciated teacher and
colleague.


-259 -



June Meeting, 1991


The Regents now salute this faculty member for his long service to the University of
Michigan by naming Roger A. Cunningham the James V. Campbell Professor Emeritus of
Law.
David M. Gates, professor of botany in the Department of Biology, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 1991, following 20 years of service at the University of
Michigan.
Professor Gates earned his B.S. degree in 1942, his M.S. degree in 1944, and his
Ph.D. degree in 1947, all in physics and all from the University of Michigan. From 1947-55,
he was a faculty member in the Department of Physics at the University of Denver, where
he directed research on high altitude spectroscopy. Over the next decade, he was
associated with the National Bureau of Standards and the Institute of Arctic and Alpine
Research at the University of Colorado. From 1965-71, Professor Gates was the director of
the Missouri Botanical Garden in St. Louis and a professor of biology at Washington
University. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1971 as professor of botany and
director of the University of Michigan Biological Station.
Early in his career, Professor Gates became interested in studying the physical
processes by which plants and animals exchange energy with their surrounding environments. His 1962 book, Energy Exchange in the Biosphere, was a landmark in the field of
ecology. This publication, along with his research papers, stimulated a new generation of
plant and animal ecologists to use a rigorous quantitative approach to measure and
interpret the ways in which organisms are adapted to their environments. Scientists around
the world continue to use this approach to study how organisms are adapted to
environments ranging from the tropics to the polar regions and from wetlands to the hot
deserts.
Professor Gates' tenure at the Biological Station was marked by a substantial
increase in research programs and by the construction of new facilities and the renovation
of many existing facilities. In recognition of his professional achievements, Professor Gates
has received the Gold Medal for Accomplishments in the Field of Ecology from the
National Council of State Garden Clubs, the Award for Outstanding Achievements in
Biometeorology from the American Meteorological Society, and the Distinguished Faculty
Award from the University of Michigan. In 1975, he was named president of the American
Institute of Biological Sciences.
The Regents now salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by naming
David M. Gates Professor Emeritus of Botany.
William P. Graebel, professor of mechanical engineering and applied mechanics,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1991.
Professor Graebel received his B.S. and M.S. degrees from the University of
Wisconsin in 1954 and 1955, respectively. While pursuing his Ph.D. degree at the
University of Michigan, he was appointed instructor in engineering mechanics in 1956. He
earned his Ph.D. degree in 1959 and was appointed assistant professor that same year. He
was promoted to associate professor in 1962 and professor in 1967.
Professor Graebel's work as a researcher and consultant has had a lasting impact on
the department's education of undergraduate and graduate students. His research led to
the development of courses in singular perturbation and approximate methods in fluids,
and his consulting work with Westinghouse Marine Division led to the introduction of
computational fluid mechanics in both teaching and research. Professor Graebel was
instrumental in the Ford Foundation Computer Project, which introduced computers into
undergraduate engineering education.


-260 -



June Meeting, 1991


Among Professor Graebel's research interests in the field of fluid mechanics are
stratified flow theory, hydrodynamic stability, dynamics of viscous fluids, computational
fluid mechanics, and perturbation methods in fluids systems. He has also carried out
research on the cornea, sclera, and choroid of the human eye, and on the application of
artificial intelligence algorithms to typical problems in fluid mechanics. In addition to his
research, Professor Graebel has been an industrial consultant to several firms, including
Parker Majestic, McDonnell Douglas, and Westinghouse Marine Division. Professor
Graebel is a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Physical
Society, Sigma Xi, and the University of Michigan Research Club, and he has been active
on numerous department and college committees.
The Regents now salute this outstanding engineering researcher and educator by
naming William P. Graebel Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Applied
Mechanics.
Victor M. Hawthorne, M.D., professor of epidemiology in the School of Public
Health, and professor of epidemiology in the Department of Family Practice in the Medical
School, will retire from active faculty status on June 30, 1991, after 13 years of service at the
University of Michigan.
Dr. Hawthorne received his M.B. and Ch.B. (Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery)
degrees in 1951 and his M.D. degree (with commendation) in 1962, all from the University
of Glasgow. Early in his career, Dr. Hawthorne was involved in tuberculosis control in
Scotland, which stimulated his future interests in epidemiology and preventive medicine.
His studies of respiratory diseases and hypertension in the inhabitants of the Island of Tiree
and of the burghs of Renfrew and Paisley in Scotland, led to an appointment in 1966 as
senior lecturer in the Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine at the
University of Glasgow. He served as the principal investigator in the Paisley and Renfrew
Medspan Health Study of 15,000 men and women, aged 45 to 64 years, who were screened
for the cardio-respiratory diseases. In that prospective study, Dr. Hawthorne identified
many of the important risk factors that predict excessive mortality due to coronary heart
disease and other common chronic diseases, and, of related interest, the effect of
environmental tobacco smoke on the health status of non-smokers.
In 1978, Dr. Hawthorne came to the University of Michigan as professor of
epidemiology and chair of the Department of Epidemiology in the School of Public Health.
He served in that capacity until 1986. He received the additional appointment in the
Department of Family Practice in 1982. During his tenure as department chair, he
participated in the Seven State Hypertension Control and Demonstration Project, and in
studies of dietary methodology, diabetes, and osteoarthritis in the Tecumseh Community
Health Project. More recently, he has conducted studies of the medical care requirements
and quality of care received by schizophrenic patients in Michigan psychiatric hospitals, and
of the costs of survival in patients with end-stage kidney disease. As a member of the
Governor's Chronic Disease Advisory Committee since its inception, Dr. Hawthorne has
provided leadership in the planning and implementation of various state chronic disease
prevention and control programs. To honor his dedication in the area of chronic disease
prevention, in 1986 the Michigan Department of Public Health initiated the Victor M.
Hawthorne Awards for research projects in disease prevention and health promotion to be
conducted by new investigators.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist and health educator for his
dedicated service by naming Victor M. Hawthorne Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology.
Robert L. Hess, professor of mechanical engineering and applied mechanics, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1991.


-261 -



June Meeting, 1991


Professor Hess received two B.S.E. degrees (mathematics and engineering
mechanics) in 1945, an M.S.E. degree in 1948, and a Ph.D. degree in 1950, all from the
University of Michigan. He served as an instructor in engineering mechanics from 1946-49,
and was employed by Bell Laboratories from 1949-52. He returned to the University of
Michigan in 1952 as an assistant professor. He was promoted to associate professor in 1955
and professor in 1958.
In 1952, Professor Hess joined the Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project, dealing with
the atomic structure of glass. In 1958, he joined the new management team created to
direct the Willow Run Laboratories, with the specific assignment as technical director of
Project Michigan, a project to advance the Army's capabilities in combat surveillance and
target acquisition. He also became the head of the Applied Research Group. While at
Willow Run Laboratories, Professor Hess managed multiple research teams, studying such
topics as information processing, semi-conductor development, infrared scanning, and
synthetic antenna radar. His success led to his being named director of Project Michigan.
In 1964, as the personal representative of the Army's chief of staff for intelligence,
Professor Hess led teams of scientists through a comprehensive field review of the Army's
combat surveillance capabilities in Europe and Korea. For this service, he was awarded the
Army's Outstanding Civilian Service Medal in 1966. That year, he returned to teaching and
was named chair of the executive committee of the Highway Safety Research Institute
(HSRI), which was established with a ten-million-dollar gift from the automobile industry.
He was named director of HSRI in 1967 and remained in that capacity through 1983.
Professor Hess has served in roles that brought unparalleled funding and prestige to
the department, the college, and the University. His leadership in the development of the
Highway Safety Research Institute (later renamed University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute) began a broad program of research spanning law, medicine, psychology,
and engineering. While director, Professor Hess conducted two major studies which
involved a review of the research findings in the scientific, engineering, and medical
communities about blunt trauma to the human head and blunt trauma to the thorax.
Professor Hess returned to teaching in 1984 and served as the mechanical engineering
undergraduate program advisor. In this capacity he wrote degree-audit software which
allows tracking of the progress of each student.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering educator, researcher, and
administrator by naming Robert L. Hess Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering
and Applied Mechanics.
Edward R. Lady, professor of mechanical engineering, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1991.
Professor Lady received his B.M.E. degree from the University of Louisville in 1947
and his S.M. degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1949. After 12 years
of employment as a project engineer at Air Products, Inc., he decided to pursue his Ph.D.
degree, which he earned from the University of Michigan in 1963. He joined the faculty as
an associate professor in 1963, and was promoted to professor in 1975.
Professor Lady's research interest lies in the area of heat transfer, covering the topics
of cryogenic engineering, low-heat flux boiling, refrigeration compressor simulation, heat
transfer to helium II, calorimetry, marine transport of liquid natural gas, and coal
conversion processes. During a sabbatical leave at Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, he
was responsible for the cryogenic engineering associated with the first experiment ever
conducted on cryogenic magnetic energy storage.
Known as one of the finest teachers in the College of Engineering, Professor Lady's
graduate elective course, "Applied Energy Conversion," invariably has a waiting list. In
addition to his other teaching responsibilities, Professor Lady has also been involved in


-262 -



June Meeting, 1991


continuing engineering education programs, both as a teacher and an administrator. He
was director of Continuing Engineering Education from 1979-84, and director of the
Instructional Television System from 1982-84. A member of the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers (ASME), American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air
Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), and the National Society of Professional Engineers
(NSPE), he was director of NSPE from 1985-86. Professor Lady has also served on
numerous committees in the department and the college.
The Regents now salute this distinguished engineering educator, administrator, and
researcher by naming Edward R. Lady Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering.
Roman Szporluk, professor of history, will retire from active faculty status on June
30, 1991. An active and productive scholar of international renown, upon his retirement he
will assume an appointment as professor of history at Harvard University.
Professor Szporluk received his Master of Law degree from the Maria
Curie-Sklodowska University School of Law in Lublin, Poland, in 1955. He was awarded
his Bachelor of Letters degree in social studies in 1961 from Oxford University and his
Ph.D. degree from Stanford University in 1965. Professor Szporluk joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan as an assistant professor of history in 1965; he was promoted to
associate professor in 1970 and professor in 1975. In his long and productive service to the
University, he served as director of the Center for Russian and East European Studies and
associate chair of the Department of History. He has also served on the advisory council of
the Committee on East Europe, ACLS-SSRC, and has been a member of the board of
directors of the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies.
Professor Szporluk has written or edited six books on Russian and East European
history. He is best known for his distinguished contributions to the study of ethnicity and
nationalism, although he has made distinguished contributions as well to the intellectual
history of Russia and East Europe. In 1988, Oxford University Press published his most
recent volume, Communism and Nationalism: Karl Marx versus Friedrich List. The
Department of History and the University have lost a distinguished historian in the
departure of Roman Szporluk.
The Regents now salute this distinguished historian for his dedication by naming
Roman Szporluk Professor Emeritus of History.
John G. Wagner, professor of pharmacology in the Medical School and John G.
Searle Professor of Pharmaceutics in the College of Pharmacy, will retire from active
faculty status on June 30, 1991, after a distinguished career as an educator and scholar.
Born in Canada, he received his Phm.B. degree from the University of Toronto in
1947, and his B.S.P. and B.A. degrees from the University of Saskatchawan in 1948 and
1949, respectively. He was awarded the Ph.D. degree in 1952 and the D.Sc. degree honoris
causa in 1980, both from The Ohio State University. Following a brief period on the faculty
of The Ohio State University, Professor Wagner joined the Upjohn Company in 1953 as a
research scientist. He remained there until 1968, when he joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan as a professor of pharmacy. He was named to the Albert B.
Prescott Professorship in 1982, and in 1986 was appointed professor of pharmacology in the
Medical School and John G. Searle Professor of Pharmaceutics in the College of Pharmacy.
Professor Wagner is internationally recognized as a founding father of the scientific
discipline of pharmacokinetics, and he continues to have a significant influence on its
evolution. The awards that have been heaped upon him are testimony to the esteem in
which Professor Wagner is held by the world scientific community.
A prolific scholar, Professor Wagner's books are credited with bringing the discipline
of pharmacokinetics to the attention of scientists world-wide, resulting in a much more


-263 -



June Meeting, 1991


rational approach to drug therapy. Whereas 25 years ago, drugs were administered in a
very empirical and arbitrary fashion, today, in the treatment of acute illnesses, it is very
common to establish the dosage regimen for an individual patient by monitoring blood
levels, and the expressions "peak" and "trough" in reference to drug concentration in the
body are now commonly heard in hospitals. This would not have been possible in the
absence of the scientific basis established by pharmacokinetics.
The concept of "biological equivalency," as opposed to "chemical equivalency," can
also be traced to Professor Wagner's efforts. Early on, he established that not all products
containing digitoxin were biologically equivalent, even though they were chemically equivalent in form and concentration. This has resulted in the requirement for standards of
bioequivalence and chemical equivalence by the Food and Drug Administration for all drug
products manufactured and distributed in the United States.
The Regents now salute this distinguished professor for his dedicated service by
naming John G. Wagner Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology and John G. Searle Professor
Emeritus of Pharmaceutics.
Warren H. Wagner, Jr., professor of botany and curator of pteridophytes in the
University Herbarium, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and professor of
natural resources in the School of Natural Resources, retired from active faculty status on
May 31, 1991, completing 40 years of service to the University of Michigan.
After receiving his A.B. degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1942,
Professor Wagner served in the U.S. Navy from 1942-46, earned his Ph.D. degree from the
University of California at Berkeley in 1950, and came to the University of Michigan as an
instructor in 1951. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1954, associate professor in
1958, and professor in 1961; he served as director of the Matthaei Botanical Gardens for
five years and as chair of the Department of Botany for three years.
Ferns and fern-allies have dominated Professor Wagner's research, although not to
the exclusion of ragweeds, trees, and butterflies. No aspect of the evolution and systematics
of pteridophytes has escaped his attention, but he may best be known for his research on
their reproductive biology and its relationship to their evolutionary history. He was a
pioneer in the development of a rational way of inferring phylogeny from the characteristics
of extant species. Author or co-author of well over 200 research contributions, he has
garnered many awards; among these are election to the National Academy of Sciences in
1985 and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1990, election as Distinguished
Senior Lecturer by the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts in 1986, and receipt of
the Asa Gray Award from the American Society of Plant Taxonomists in 1990.
Professor Wagner has served on many University committees, has held offices in 15
national and international societies, has served on countless professional committees, has
acted as a consultant to many other universities, and has participated tirelessly in meetings,
symposia, and workshops. In 1980, the University honored Professor Wagner with its
Amoco Outstanding Teacher Award, recognizing his extraordinary love of teaching and
astonishing contribution to the education of undergraduates, graduate students, and
laypeople. His hugely popular courses in systematic botany have opened doors for
thousands of students. He chaired or co-chaired over 45 doctoral committees and served
on over 230; his students have scattered all over the world and brought great credit to him
and to Michigan. Moreover, his great humanity and incomparable gifts as a communicator
have given him a reputation as a serious scientist who can make subjects comprehensible
and fascinating to non-scientists.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many contributions
by naming Warren H. Wagner, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Botany, Curator Emeritus of
Pteridophytes, and Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources.


-264 -



June Meeting, 1991


Memorials
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following memorial statement:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the
untimely death on May 4, 1991, of Nancy Sue Palchik, assistant professor of postgraduate
medicine and health professions education in the Medical School.
Professor Palchik was nationally known for her careful and incisive studies of
the factors involved in health professions education. This was particularly true in the areas
of medical decision-making and arthritis patient and professional education. At the time of
her death, she was completing development of a successful program designed to modify the
crippling effects of postmenopausal osteoporosis, a project in which she directed an
interdisciplinary team of research scientists investigating several aspects of this common
medical problem.
Professor Palchik was born in New York City in 1946. She received four
degrees from the University of Michigan: a B.A. degree in psychology (1969), an M.P.H.
degree in health education and population planning (1973), an M.A. degree in education
psychology (1978), and a Ph.D. degree in educational psychology (1984). She was a
research associate at the School of Education and the Highway Safety Research Institute
prior to her appointment to the Medical School faculty, which she held from 1984 until her
death.
Professor Palchik pursued her scholarly activities with a dedication and
thoroughness that were an inspiration to her colleagues. She commanded both respect and
affection from all who knew her or worked with her, even for the briefest interaction. Her
circle of colleagues had a very wide diameter, encompassing co-workers in several Medical
School departments, several schools on the Michigan campus, the Arthritis and Diabetes
Centers of more than fifteen university medical centers nationwide, and the National
Institutes of Health. All within this circle have admired Professor Palchik's
professionalism, scholarship, and creativity, and we will all miss her warmth, friendship, and
enduring personal qualities.
All of Professor Palchik's many friends and colleagues unite in extending
condolences to her mother Mollie, daughter Elizabeth, and sister, Sally Regep.
Authorization for Expenditures in 1991-92
Regent Power moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, authorization for temporary actions for nonsalary and salary expenditures in
1991-92, as described in the Regents communication.
Devise of a Closely-Held Company Necessitating University-Appointed Officers (The
Planarian Press, Inc.)
Regent Smith moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regent Pecs unanimously
approved appointment of the following University employees as officers of The
Planarian Press, Inc.: Norman Herbert, chair; Al Cain, president; Michele Everard,
secretary; and Robert W. Moenart, treasurer.
University of Michigan-Dearborn Fairlane Apartment Project
Chancellor Wilson reported that this project would carry out the recommendation of the 1989 UM-Dearborn space needs report to phase out student housing at


-265 -



June Meeting, 1991


UM-Dearborn and convert the Fairlane Apartments facility to academic use
(classrooms and faculty office space). The alternative is an augmented apartment
referral service for off-campus apartments. Chancellor Wilson indicated that Robert
Behrens, vice chancellor for business affairs, and Mary Tobin, director of facilities
planning, were present to respond to questions.
Regent Varner moved that the Regents authorize UM-Dearborn Fairlane
Apartment renovation project, as described in the Regents communication. Regent
Waters seconded the motion. In response to a question from Regent Power, Ms.
Tobin stated that there were 30 apartments in the project. Six of those were currently
housing faculty offices; the remaining 24 would be converted into three classrooms
and approximately 60 office and office support spaces.
Regent Smith commented that she would not support this because she did not
have an opportunity to vote on the phasing out of housing on the Dearborn campus.
In response to a question from Regent Nielsen, Chancellor Wilson said that housing
was being phased out because the space needs survey of faculty, staff, and students had
determined that academic support space was the highest priorioty space need on
campus. President Duderstadt pointed out that because the state had not provided
funds for new facilities on college campuses, it was necessary to prioritize space needs.
Regent Nielsen questioned why a vacant building on the north side of the
campus could not be used for faculty office space. Vice Chancellor Behrens
responded that this facility was being used for student organizations and for accommodating gatherings such as guest lectures and film series. Chancellor Wilson
reiterated President Duderstadt's comment about the lack of state support for facilities on the Dearborn campus, which has led to its carrying a debt of over $1 million for
facilities and still not having sufficient academic classroom or faculty office space.
Further discussion followed about the issue of housing on the Dearborn
campus. Regent Nielsen stated that he was not in favor of eradicating housing to
provide for moderate classroom space, and that there was underutilized space
elsewhere on campus that could be used. The president pointed out that the branch
campuses were not intended to be residential. Regent Power stated that he would
support the motion because it was consistent with the master plan.
In response to a question from Regent Smith about student opposition to
eliminating the apartments, Chancellor Wilson noted that the apartments would serve
80 students out of a total enrollment of 8,000. She also reported that the students who
were originally opposed to the proposal ultimately were satisfied with the improved
referral service, and they understood that space was needed for academic programs.
Regent Brown pointed out that there would always be a demand on college
campuses for housing, because universities generally provide the cheapest housing.
But with the extreme need for academic facilities on the Dearborn campus, he saw no
choice but to follow the recommendation to convert the campus housing to academic
space. In response to a question from Regent McFee, Chancellor Wilson reported
that a survey had determined that there was adequate private housing available near
the Dearborn campus.


-266 -



June Meeting, 1991


Regent Varner noted that in supporting the proposal, she was choosing
between the quality of the academic facilities and housing on what is basically a
commuting campus. Regent Baker stated that he was not persuaded that the quality
of the academic endeavor would be improved by this measure. Regent Nielsen
reiterated his opinion that there was empty space on the campus that could be used;
Regent Brown responded that the Dearborn campus community did not find that to be
the case.
There being no further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion carried,
with Regents Brown, Power, McFee, Varner, and Waters, in favor, and Regents
Baker, Nielsen, and Smith, opposed.
Space Research Building Addition
Vice President Womack introduced Fred Mayer, University planner, who used
schematic drawings to describe a proposed addition to the Space Research Building.
Following some discussion, Regent Baker moved, Regent Nielsen seconded, and the
Regents voted unanimously to approve the Space Research Building addition project,
and to authorize soliciting bids and awarding the construction contract to the successful bidder, provided the contract value is within the approved budget.
Financing of Fransois-Xavier Bagnoud Building for Aerospace Engineering and Space
Physics Research Laboratory Addition
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved preparation and circulation of a preliminary official statement,
applying for a bond rating from both Moody's and Standard & Poor's Corporation,
and advertising and receiving bids for the Engineering College Projects, Student Fee
Bonds, Series 1991, as described in the action request related thereto.
Utility Tunnel Repairs
Regent Nielsen moved approval to proceed with a project to repair tunnel
systems serving the Medical Center area, as described in the Regents communication.
Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Michigan Student Assembly Financial Matters
Vice President Swain reported that since 1989, the University has monitored
Michigan Student Assembly's expenditures, even though in its audit report, Plante &
Moran was critical of the way in which MSA had handled its internal procedures. She
stated the current MSA officers understand that a cost of doing business is having a
regular, full-time employee to set up and maintain an adequate financial reporting
system to address the auditors' concerns.
Mr. James Green, president of MSA, who was present at the meeting, stated
that MSA's main goals for the coming year are to be fiscally responsible and to
improve communication with the executive officers.
In response to a question from the Regent Power, Vice President Swain stated
that applicants for the full-time employee who will maintain the financial reporting


-267 -



June Meeting, 1991


system will be screened by her office and hired in consultation with MSA. Supervision
will be done through the Student Organization Development Office, and professional
continuity would thus be maintained independent of changes in the administration of
MSA. Funding will come from the overall MSA budget.
Regent Baker reviewed some of the points in the Plante & Moran management
letter, which noted that Michigan Student Assembly's financial reporting throughout
the year was "nonexistent", and recommended steps that should be taken immediately
to implement a financial reporting system. He also noted the deficiencies pointed out
in the report regarding the operations of the Ann Arbor Tenants Union and Student
Legal Services. He stated that this focuses clearly on the fact that some mechanism is
needed to protect the integrity of students' money.
Regent Power noted that he had never read a management letter as critical as
this one, and asked for assurances that one of the functions of the person to be hired
would be to insure that MSA's internal control procedures are being followed. Mr.
Green answered affirmatively.
There was further discussion about the finances of MSA, and about the structure of the Ann Arbor Tenants Union (AATU). Mr. Green said that he was in favor
of maintaining funding for the AATU. In response to a question from Regent Smith
about a specific item in the revenue section of the MSA financial report, Mr. Rodger
Wolf, assistant to the vice president for student services, explained that MSA acts as a
conduit for the sale of student health insurance policies from an outside vendor, and
receives a fee for each policy sold. The Regents asked to receive further information
about the student health insurance policies.
Report of the Biological Research Review Committee
The Regents received a report of the Biological Research Review Committee.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1992
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
approved the following schedule of Regents' meetings for the calendar year 1992:
January 16-17                         July 16-17
February 20-21                        August —no meeting
March 12*-13                          September 17-18
April 16-17                           October 15**-16
May 14-15                             November 19-20
June 11-12                            December 17-18
*    Held at UM-Dearborn
*" * Held at UM-Flint
Revision of Regents' Bylaw Section 11.151 (The University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board)
Regent Baker moved, Regent Brown seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved, revising bylaw section 11.151 to add the Chief of Nursing Affairs at
University of Michigan Hospitals/Assistant Dean for Clinical Affairs, School of


-268 -



June Meeting, 1991


Nursing to the Executive Board of University of Michigan Hospitals. The revision also
corrects the title of the vice president for development. The new bylaw reads as
follows:
Sec. 11.151: The University of Michigan Hospitals Executive Board
There shall be an executive board of the University of Michigan
Hospitals composed of the dean of the Medical School, the dean of the
School of Nursing; the vice president for academic affairs and provost; the
vice president and chief financial officer; the vice president for government
relations; the vice president for development; the vice provost for medical
affairs; the chief of clinical affairs of the University of Michigan Hospitals; the
executive director of the University of Michigan Hospitals; the chief of nursing
affairs, University of Michigan Hospitals, and assistant dean for clinical
affairs, School of Nursing; and two members from the medical/dental staff of
the University of Michigan Hospitals.
The chair shall be named by the president and the Board of Regents.
The nominees of the medical/dental staff will be appointed by the Board
of Regents on recommendation by the president, and will serve four-year
terms, so staggered to provide one replacement every two years.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on July 18-19, 1991. Regents' transportation, accommodation,
telephone, and miscellaneous expenses for the month of May 1991 totalled $1,415.17.
Richard L. ennedy, Secretey


-269 -


