
Proceedings of the Board of Regents
July 1988 - June 1989
The University of Michigan




JULY MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, July 21, 1988
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost
Duderstadt, and Vice Presidents Womack, Cosovich, and Johnson were also present,
as were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Vice President Wilson was absent; Associate
Vice President Nagy attended in her place.
FY 1988-89 General Fund Budget, Ann Arbor Campus
President Fleming called on Provost Duderstadt to present a status report on
the FY 1988-89 General Fund Budget for the Ann Arbor campus. Provost Duderstadt
reminded the Regents that the University had requested an increment of $50.2 million
over last year's base appropriation of $237.8 million. A 1987-88 mid-year reduction
had reduced this base to $236 million. Although the legislature has not yet finalized
its appropriation, it appears that the University can expect to receive an increment of
approximately $4.6 million for FY 1988-89. Other sources of General Fund revenue
are indirect cost recovery, interest income, and tuition and fees; increases from all of
these sources of general fund revenue are expected to net $43.7 million, leaving a
shortfall of $6.5 million. To cope with this, the University plans to employ cost
reduction, internal reallocation, and revenue measures. Nevertheless, the proposed
budget shows a planned deficit of $1.6 million, which it is hoped that the final state
appropriation will eliminate.
Given the University's budget objectives of targeting the highest priorities of
the University (student financial aid, quality of undergraduate and graduate education,
and diversity and affirmative action), providing incentives to attract resources, and
providing budget flexibility, Provost Duderstadt provided details of each category of
planned General Fund expenditures of new resources for FY 1988-89. These
categories include fixed costs, compensation program, minority recruitment and
retention, laboratory equipment, undergraduate and graduate student support, faculty
salary restoration, undergraduate program initiatives, science initiatives, University
libraries, information technology, deferred maintenance, other programmatic needs,
and pass-through, for a total allocation of new resources of $45,304,000.
To accomplish these objectives, Provost Duderstadt said that the Regents
would be asked to approve a base increase in tuition and required fee rates of 12% for
1988-89, for all Ann Arbor units except the Schools of Business Administration,
Engineering, Law, Medicine, Dentistry, and Pharmacy. Increases in these professional
schools would range from 9% in the School of Dentistry to 18.7% in the College of
Pharmacy. The 12% basic increase is expected to be at the lower end of increases for
other Michigan public colleges and universities, and the total tuition amounts still
compare favorably with those of other Big Ten institutions and with the other
institutions that make up the top ten undergraduate institutions in the United States.


-1 -



July Meeting, 1988


Discussion followed about how the recent history of weak state support has
shifted increasing portions of the costs of education to students and their families.
Regent Power suggested that on this public policy issue the University ought to work
with other state institutions that are facing the same problem. Regent Roach pointed
out the pattern of increasing deterioration in the area of state support for education,
and wondered if legislators and the public are aware of this. Provost Duderstadt
responded that they are, but that the urgency of immediate needs is overshadowing the
long-term future needs.
FY 1988-89 General Fund Budget, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones presented the proposed incremental General Fund budget
for the Flint campus of $2,480,800, which also relies on a 12% tuition increase to meet
its priority economic and programmatic needs. Planned use of new funds includes the
salary program, staff benefits, student aid, science building operation, parking deck
debt service, and program commitments and improvements.
Resolution in Honor of Doris Estep
President Fleming asked Doris Estep, Executive Assistant to the Presidential
Search Committee, to come to the Regents' table to receive a citation. Regent Brown
then read the following resolution:
The Regents of the University extend to Doris Estep their highest
commendations and deep gratitude for her dedicated years of service to the
University, and particularly for her incomparable role in assisting the Regents in
the selection of three Presidents of the University.
Her career with the University began in 1965 as a secretary. She was then
tapped for service with the Presidential Selection Committee that chose Robben
Fleming in 1967. She subsequently worked in the President's Office until 1974,
when she moved to the Regents' Office as an executive secretary. After years of
keeping track of the Regents and their proceedings, she was again called on to aid
the Regents in the presidential selection process that resulted in Harold Shapiro's
presidency in 1979.
Through it all, Doris Estep executed every task, every request, every special
occasion with quiet efficiency, exceptional grace, and the perfection of a total
professional. Deservedly, the Regents have vested in this wondrous woman a
degree of trust and confidence that is unprecedented. She has responded with an
exemplary level of dedication and loyalty.
Barring some unexpected move on the part of President-Elect Duderstadt, it
appears that Doris will finally be allowed her well-deserved retirement. The
Regents congratulate her and convey their deep appreciation to this very special
friend and confidante.
FY 1988-89 General Fund Budget, UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Wilson emphasized that the modest proposed increment on the
already inadequate general fund base budget for the Dearborn campus will require
that there be major cost containment and reallocation efforts in coming fiscal years.
Based on the proposed increase in state appropriations and a 12% tuition increase,


-2 -



July Meeting, 1988


incremental revenues and expenditures on the Dearborn campus will total $2,565,000.
Allocations will consist of a salary and fringe benefits program, non-salary component,
student financial aid, student activities fee allocations, off-campus space,
Manufacturing Systems Engineering Laboratory costs, academic programs,
instructional equipment, and other commitments.
There was further discussion about whether or not it would be feasible to
increase nonresident tuition by a larger percentage than resident tuition in order to
compensate for the lack of state support. It was pointed out that out-of-state students
already pay three times more than state residents, and that further disproportionate
increases would have negative affects on the marketplace. Currently, out-of-state
students are paying the actual costs of their education; if their tuition were further
increased, they would be subsidizing instate students.
The operating budgets for all three campuses will come to the Regents for
approval at the September, 1988 meeting.
Minutes
The Regents unanimously approved the minutes of the special meeting of June
10, 1988 and the regular meeting of June 16 and 17, 1988.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted Reports on Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, Personnel-Labor Relations, and Non-competitive purchases
over $2,000 from Single Sources from 4/1/88 - 6/30/88. The Regents also received
reports on Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and Sponsored Projects and
of Awards Received, Research and Other Academic Activities from April 23 to May
27, 1988.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich stated that at the September meeting, the Regents
would receive a complete report of gifts for the fiscal year that ended June 30, 1988.
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Anthony W. England, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Cecil G. Miskel, Ph.D., Dean of the School of Education and Professor of Education, for a five-year
term, October 1, 1988
Gerald A. Mourou, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Chung Owyang, M.D., from Associate Professor to Professor of InternarMedicine
Alan Walter Steiss, Ph.D., Professor of Urban Planning


-3 -



July Meeting, 1988


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND
FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Harry T. Edwards, J.D  Professor of Law July 1, 1988
Karem A. Sakallah Phb.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Bruno E. Simma, Doctorate of Law, Professor of Law
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Thomas C. Adamson, Jr., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, reappointed Chair of the Department of
Aerospace Engineering July 1, 1988, for a three-year term
Joseph E. Hawkins, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology, reappointed to continue his
scientific investigation at the Kresge Hearing Research Institute, August 1, 1988
Swatantra K. Kachhal, Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, reappointed Chair of the
Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, July 1, 198, for a three-year term
George Piranian, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappoited to counsel Special Track Honors
Students, September 1, 1988
Maxwell 0. Reade, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics reappointed to serve as Chair of the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts Scholarship Committee, University year, 1988-89
Gerda M. Seligson, Professor Emeritus of Classical Studies reappointed to continue work on a text
on elementary  reek, and to teach elementary Gree and atin, Academic year, 1988-89
Kenneth E. Vance, Professor Emeritus of Library Science and Education, reappointed to teach a course
in the School of Information and Library Studies, Fall term, 1988
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Arnold Aronson, Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, appointed Chair of the
Department of Theatre and Drama, for a four-year term
Valener L. Perry, Senior Admissions Counselor, appointed Assistant Dean for Student Services, College
of Pharmacy, September 1, 1988 for a five-year term
Theodore Z. Polley, Assistant Professor of Surgery, appointed Assistant Dean for Admissions, Medical
School
Jane A. Romatowski, Professor of Education appointed Assistant Dean for the School of Education,
UM-Dearborn, August 1, 1988, for a tiree-year term
Kenneth B. West, Professor of History, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department of History,
UM-Flint, for a three year term
Paul W. Zitzewitz, Professor of Physics with tenure, appointed Associate Dean of the College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, for a one-year term, September 1, 1988
The following committee appointments were approved:
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
James E. Crowfoot for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Rhetaugh G. Dumas,
term expired
Sherry B. Ortner, to succeed herself for a three-year term July 1 1988 through June 30,1991
June S. Osborn, to succeed herself for a three-year term, July 1, i988 through June 30, 1991
Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project Executive Committee
Mary. Brake, for a four-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992, vice Ward D. Getty, term
expired
Alexander K. Halliday, for a four-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992, vice Charles F. Yocum,
term expired
The University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
L. Ross Chambers, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Henry Pollack, term
expired
Elaine K. Gazda, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Evan Maurer, term
expired
John E. Jackson, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice John H. Shy, term
expired
Thomas A. Green, for a one-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1989, vice Sarah C. Humphreys,
resigned


-4 -



July Meeting, 1988


Committee on Military Officer Education Programs (Correction to reviously approved appointment.)
Shaw Livermore, Jr to succeed himself for a three-year term. July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991
Janice B. Lindberg, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Ruth M. Barnard,
term expired
School of Art Executive Committee
oKnneth B. Baird for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Jon N. Rush,
term expired
Takeshi Takahara, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1991, vice Alfredo Montalvo,
term expired
University Hospitals Executive Board
am       Keey, for a ouryear term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1992, vice eRobert
P. Kelch, term expired
Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
Robert M. Warner, for the period through October 31, 1988, vice Richard M. Dougherty, resigned
Robert M. Warner, to succeed himself, for a five-year term, November 1, 1988 through October 31, 1993
Middle English Dictionary Council
rnest N. cCarus for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice Richard W. Bailey,
term expired
Frances K. McSparran, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice Edna A. Coffin,
term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Estee R. Mermelstein, student member, for a two-year period, effective immediately through May 31,
1990, vice Ronald Albert, Jr., term expired
Thomas E. Sunderland Fellowship in Law. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Thomas E. Sunderland Fellowship in Law, effective September 1,
1988.
T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professors of Mathematics. The Regents
approved the appointments of Francesco Brenti, Chi-Keung Cheung, and Valery Lunts
as T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professors of Mathematics for the period
September 1, 1988 to May 31, 1991.
Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor in Honors. The Regents approved the
appointment of Judith Laikin Elkin as the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professor of
Honors for winter term, 1989.
Visiting Max Kade Distinguished Professor of German. Robert Hinderling was
appointed the Visiting Max Kade Distinguished Professor of German for fall term,
1988.
Richard Hudson Research Professor of History. The Regents approved the
appointment of Professor John Willard Shy as the Richard Hudson Research
Professor of History for winter term, 1989.
Visiting Netherlands Professor of English Language and Literature. Richard K.
Todd was appointed the Visiting Netherlands Professor of English Language and
Literature for the period of September 1, 1988 to April 30, 1989.
The Regents authorized the President or the Provost and Vice President for
Academic Affairs to make such interim appointments and/or changes as may become
necessary during the month of August to complete the staffing for the Fall term.


-5 -



July Meeting, 1988


Personnel Reports
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
James T. Elder, Ph.D., Dermatology
Ernest H. Johnson, Ph.D., InternalMedicine, April 1, 1988
Richard Jove, Ph.D., Microbiology and Immunology, June 8 1988
David M. Markovitz, M.D Internal Medicine, June 15, 1988
Michael W. Mulholland, Ph.D., M.D., Surgery
Jay R. Shayevitz, M.D., Anesthesiology, June 1, 1988
Instructor
James L. Abelson, M.D., Psychiatry
Peter S. Ernst, M.D., Anesthesiology and Surgery
Kimberlydawn Wisdom, M.D., Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education
Lecturer
David K. Anderson, M.D., Radiology
Donald H. Chamberlain M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology
James R. Chenoweth, M.D., Family Practice
Karl S. Deluga, M.D. Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Barry Gubin, M.D., Radiology
Edward A. Hurvitz, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Deborah O. Jeffries M.D., Radiology
Karl S. Rosengren BA., Psychology
Brien W. Salesmi, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 1, 1988
Visiting Professor
Paul D. Carrington LL.B Law, June 21, 1988
Gino Casagrandle, Ph.D., Center for Western European Studies
Milan H. Cobble, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, May 1, 1988
Visitin Associate Professor
Judy A. Kennedy, Ph.D., Mathematics
Visitin Assistant Professor
Kartic C. Khilar, Ph.D. Cemical Engineering, June 1, 1988
Edward E. Slaminka, Ph.D., Mathematics
Visiting Lecturer
Madeine M. Chu, Ph.D., Asian Languages and Cultures, June 9, 1988
Haiyan Fu, BA., Chinese, June 9, 1988
John N. Miller, MA., English Language Institute
Adiunct Associate Professor
Charles B. Vergon, J.D., Education
Adiunct Assistant Professor
Robert J. Brulle, M.  Natural Resources, January 1, 1988
Michael J. Donahue, Ph.D., Natural Resources, June 1, 1988
J. Michael McCloskey, J.D., Natural Resources, June 1, 1988
Adiunct Lecturer
F. Stephen Dobson, Ph.D., Biology
Barbara A. Goebel M.BA., Management, UM-Flint
Mark S. Sandler, Ph.D., Information and Library Studies
Clinical Assistant Professor I
Lois J. Birkhimer, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
William R. Grove, M.S., Pharmacy
Kathleen V. Kastenholz, Pharm. D., Pharmacy


-6 -



July Meeting, 1988


Clinical Instructor I
Christine A. Chatas, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
James A. Heinsimer, M.D., Internal Medicine
Joseph M. Leonard, B.S Pharmacy
Ronald H. Lukasiewicz, M.S., Pharmacy
Stephen J. Pawloski B.S., Pharmacy
Leslie A. Farquhar Zanetti, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Allan R. Britt, from Lecturer to Instructor of Radiology
Loren Levy, from Lecturer to Instructor of AnesthesioIogy
Kim A. Lindenmuth, from Lecturer to Instructor of Ophthalmology
Brant S. Pittsley from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer of Dentistry, May 1, 1988
Richard SilbergIeit, from Lecturer to Instructor of Radiology
Janice L. Stumpf, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy
Roberta C. Taylor, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer in Dentistry, May 1, 1988
Dennis F. Turner from Adjunct Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Dentistry, May 1, 1988
Burgunda W. Volger, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy
Jeffrey S. Warren, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pathology
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Sabbatical
Joan C. Durrance, Associate Dean and Associate Professor, with tenure, Information and
Library Studies, for a six-month period
Julian T. Hoff, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, for a three-month period
Walter P. Lang, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, for a one-year period
Richardo V. Lioyd, Alfred Scott Warthin-Carl Vernon WelIer Professor and Associate Professor
of Pathology, with tenure, for a six-month period
Monica N. Starkman, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, for a six-month period
David E. Schteingart, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, for a six-month period
Duty off Cam us
Frederick C. Neidhardt, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, for a one-month
period
Extended Sick
Paula M. Berg, Instructor of Anesthesiology, May 15, 1988, for a six-week period
Retirement Furlough
James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Professor of Business
Administration, without tenure, for a one-year period
Kenneth W. Cochran, Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Pharmacology, without tenure, for a one-year period
Bert N. Ladu, Jr. Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, for a one-year period
Leave Without Salar
Arthur A. Lee, Jr., Lecturer of Comprehensive Studies, May 14, 1988 for a six-week period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective June 30, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Raul G. Caffesse, Dentistry, with tenure
Holland C. Ford, Astronomy, with tenure, July 31, 1988
Gary W. Goldstein, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, also Professor of Neurology,
without tenure
Leon E. Irish, Law, August 26, 1988
Jaegwon Kim, Roy Wood Sellars Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, August 31, 1988
J. Richard Landis, Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, August 31, 1988
Associate Professor
Lawrence B. Brilliant, Epidemiology, May 31 1988
Fred M. Hoppe, Statistics, with tenure, May i1, 1988
-7 -



July Meeting, 1988


Assistant Professor
Patricia J. Bovette, Theatre and Drama, May 31, 1988
Pamela L. De'rullio, Pharmacy June 3, 1988
Edward Ellis III, Dentistry and Surgery
Carolyn K. Kinney, Nursing, May 3, 1988
Marion D. Lewis, Nursing, August 31 1988
Andrea L. Matthies, Art History, U-Dearborn, April 30, 1988
Tessie M. Sharp, Social Work, UM-Flint, June 9, 1988
Instructor
Kimberly D. Campbell-Voytal, Nursing, May 31, 1988
Mark H. Falahee, Surgery
Mary L. Parker Nursing, cancellation of termination reported on May 31, 1988
Gary C. Reid, Obstetrics and Gynecology
Thomas D. Spera Radiology
David J. Steffey, Radiology
Carmen R. Ventocilla, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Lecturer
Burt I. Bromberg, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Maria V. GonzaIez-Widel, Romance Languages and Literatures, August 31, 1988
Laudio M. Mazzola, Romance Languages and Literatures, August 31, 1988
Stanley J. Nelson Dentistry
LeroyM. Pratt, Dentistry, August 31, 1988
William A. Scott, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
William D. Wares, II, Biology, May 31 1988
Dana Zakalik, Internal Medicine and Surgery, July 31, 1988
Clinical Associate Professor
Jerry W. Froelich, Radiology, June 7, 1988
Clinical Instructor
Christina Ballester, Psychiatry, June 15, 1988
Sandra L. Fritz Anesthesiology
Gary L. Gambill, Surgery
Jed J. Magen, Psychiatry, June 24, 1988
Sandra S. Wu, Anesthesiology
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously adopted the following retirement memoirs:
W. H. Locke Anderson, Professor of Economics, retired from active faculty
status on June 30, 1988. Professor Anderson received his B.A. degree from Williams
College in 1955 and his Ph.D. degree from Harvard University in 1960. He joined the
faculty of The University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1960; he was
promoted to associate professor in 1963 and professor in 1968.
During his twenty-eight-year career at The University of Michigan, Professor
Anderson authored numerous books and articles on such topics as macroeconomic
theory, economic growth, business investment, stabilization policy, and modes of
economic thought. His books include monographs on corporate finance and fixed
investment and on the price-theoretic foundations of national income theory; his
articles have been published in a wide variety of journals, ranging from the
mainstream American Economic Review to the dissident Science and Society.
Professor Anderson's professional life can be divided into two phases of roughly
equal duration. In the first phase, his teaching and his research focused on orthodox
macroeconomic theory and its application to various policy problems. During this
time, he also served as a consultant to various national and international economic
organizations and agencies, including the U.S. President's Council of Economic
Advisers. In the second phase of his career, Professor Anderson's interests turned
-8 -



July Meeting, 1988


toward broader perspectives on economics and the social sciences, and he began to
explore issues such as the sociology of knowledge and the role of ideology in economic
thought. He developed a critical perspective on economic orthodoxy, and he
immersed himself in the study of Marxian political economy and other unconventional
approaches to social and economic issues. While continuing to teach standard courses
in macroeconomics and economics, he also took on new courses in political economy,
Marxist economic theory, and the economics of women. In so doing, he developed
highly creative ways of teaching his undergraduate and graduate students to expand
their intellectual horizons; his research culminated in several articles and a major
treatise (in progress) on the role of ideology in economics.
Professor Anderson's career reflects a deliberate choice not to pursue
professional honor by persistently undertaking conventional research. Instead, he has
chosen to depart from the current orthodoxy in economics and to develop a broad and
critical perspective on the field. In so doing, he has contributed in a major way to the
diversity of The University of Michigan Department of Economics, and he has
enriched the academic experience of countless students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished economist for his dedicated service by
naming W. H. Locke Anderson Professor Emeritus of Economics.
James I. Crump, Jr., Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 1988, after a most productive career as a teacher and
scholar.
A native of New Jersey, Professor Crump took undergraduate studies at
Columbia University before entering the graduate program in East and South Asian
Languages and Literatures at Yale University, where he received his Ph.D. degree in
1949. He was appointed as instructor in Chinese at The University of Michigan in
1949, was promoted to assistant professor in 1952, associate professor in 1957, and
professor in 1962. He contributed great strength and vitality to both instructional and
research programs in Chinese language and literature of the Department of Asian
Languages and Cultures (known as the Department of Far Eastern Languages and
Literatures from 1948 to 1986). He specialized in popular literature from medieval
China, including Yuan dynasty drama and song-poetry, and early narrative, including
the ancient masterwork of fiction, the Chan-kuo Ts'e or Intrigues of the Warring States.
Due to his presence, Michigan was recognized for a long time as one of the best two or
three places in the United States where one could study classical Chinese drama.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar for his long and dedicated
service by naming James I. Crump, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Chinese Language and
Literature.
Donald F. Eschman, Professor of Geological Sciences, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 1988, after a productive career as a teacher and researcher.
Professor Eschman earned his A.B. degree in 1947 from Denison University.
He then entered Harvard University, where he received his M.A. degree in 1950 and
his Ph.D. degree in 1953.
Prior to joining The University of Michigan faculty, Professor Eschman was
employed as a geologist with the United States Geological Survey and as an instructor
in geology at Tufts College. He served as acting chairman of the Department of
Geology at Tufts College from 1952 to 1953.
In 1953, Professor Eschman was appointed as an instructor in geology at The
University of Michigan. He was named assistant professor in 1956, associate professor
in 1959, and professor in 1964. He served as chair of the Department of Geological
Sciences from 1961 to 1966, and interim chair from 1977 to 1978 and 1984 to 1985. He
contributed strength and vitality to both instructional and research programs in the


-9 -



July Meeting, 1988


department. He taught numerous courses at the undergraduate and graduate levels
which formed a major core of the curriculum of the department.
Professor Eschman's research interests concentrated on the fields of
geomorphology, glacial geology, and engineering geology. His research focused on the
erosional history of the Rocky Mountains and on the glacial history of the North
American mid-continent.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Donald F. Eschman Professor Emeritus of Geological Sciences.
Stefan S. Fajans, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine and Chief of the Division
of Endocrinology and Metabolism, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1988.
Dr. Fajans was born in Munich, Germany, and immigrated to the United States
with his family at the age of 18. His father, Professor Kasimir Fajans, was an
internationally known scientist who had joined the faculty at The University of
Michigan as professor of physical chemistry. Dr. Fajans received his B.S. and M.D.
degrees from The University of Michigan in 1938 and 1942, respectively, and then
completed an internship at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. After serving as a
medical officer in the United States Army Medical Corps in Europe, he returned to
Ann Arbor, where he completed a residency in internal medicine and a fellowship in
endocrinology under Dr. Jerome W. Conn. Dr. Fajans joined The University of
Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1949; he was promoted to assistant professor in
1951, associate professor in 1955, and professor in 1961. In 1973, he was named Chief
of the Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, and in 1977 he became the first
director of the Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center.
Having devoted his scientific career to the study of diabetes, Dr. Fajans made
important contributions to the understanding of the etiology, diagnosis and treatment
of that disease. He recognized and delineated a type of diabetes in children and young
adults theretofore known to exist only in adults. He is the author of more than 125
scientific publications and 60 book chapters. In recognition of his contributions to the
understanding of diabetes, he received the Banting Medal and the Banting Award
from the American Diabetes Association, and was awarded the Banting Memorial
Lectureship of the British Diabetes Association and the Joslin Memorial Medal. He
was selected the Henry Russel Lecturer at The University of Michigan in 1983, and
was elected a Master Fellow of the American College of Physicians in 1984. He was
named a Senior Member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of
Sciences in 1985.
Dr. Fajans has received worldwide recognition as physician, teacher, lecturer,
and researcher. He has been president of the American Diabetes Association and
vice president of the Endocrine Society, and has served as consultant to the United
States Surgeon General, the Public Health Service, and the Food and Drug
Administration. He was a member of the Endocrinology Study Section of the
National Institutes of Health, and served as chairman of the Subcommittee on
Diabetes of the Fogarty International Center Conferences on Preventive Medicine. In
recognition of his teaching abilities, Dr. Fajans received the first Internal Medicine
Senior Medical Resident Award for Outstanding Teaching. His extensive clinical
knowledge and incisive critical thinking have contributed significantly to his
effectiveness as a physician and to his influence on the careers of the many physicians
who have trained or worked in the Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism at The
University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this physician, teacher, lecturer, and researcher for his
more than 50 years of association with The University of Michigan by naming Stefan S.
Fajans Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.


-10 -



July Meeting, 1988


Nelson G. Hairston, Professor of Zoology and Director of the Museum of
Zoology, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1975, following 27 years of
service at The University of Michigan.
Professor Hairston obtained his A.B. and A.M. degrees from the University of
North Carolina in 1937 and 1939, respectively, and then entered the United States
Army where he saw active service in the South Pacific. After the war, he returned to
academic studies and received his Ph.D. degree from Northwestern University in 1948.
He began his academic career as an instructor in zoology at The University of
Michigan in 1948. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1952, associate professor
in 1957, and professor in 1961. In 1967, he was appointed director of the Museum of
Zoology and continued at that post until his retirement.
Professor Hairston's doctoral research focused on the local distribution and
ecology of the plethodontid salamanders of the southern Appalachians. These studies
provided the basis for his subsequent investigation of some of the most trenchant ideas
of ecology, especially the views that competition for resources is the major driving
force determining the composition of ecological communities and that dynamic
relationships among co-existing species are demonstrated by their relative abundances.
He believed strongly that such ideas can and should be tested under natural conditions
in the field, through carefully designed experimental manipulation and procedures.
He has been outstandingly successful in applying this approach to such diverse
organisms as paramecium, soil arthropods, freshwater snails, and salamanders, and the
frequency with which his rigorous analyses are cited bears eloquent testimony to his
preeminence as a community ecologist.
During his tenure at The University of Michigan, Professor Hairston served on
advisory and consulting committees on tropical medicine and parasitology for the
World Health Organization and the National Institutes of Health, and chaired the
Advisory Committee for Biology and Medical Sciences of the National Science
Foundation. His WHO assignments took him to many countries, including Iraq,
Egypt, Kenya, Ghana, Western Samoa, and the Philippines, and resulted in significant
scientific contributions to the control of schistosomiasis and related diseases.
Professor Hairston's insistence on high standards for both study and research,
and his appreciation of clear and independent thinking, brought him many graduate
students who have gone on to become leaders in their own fields of interest. Because
he was an exceptionally good critic, he was frequently sought after to direct thesis
research. Both faculty and students respected him highly for his incisive intellect.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Nelson G.
Hairston Professor Emeritus of Zoology.
Marjorie M. Jackson, Associate Professor of Nursing, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1988. Professor Jackson has a long and rich association with The
University of Michigan and has been a leader in professional nursing in this
community.
Professor Jackson earned a diploma in nursing in 1943, a B.A. degree in English
literature in 1948, and an M.S. degree in medical surgical nursing in 1965, all from The
University of Michigan. She started her nursing career as a staff nurse at Lehuie
General Hospital in Hawaii and then served in the United States Navy Nurse Corps
for three years. After her military service, she worked as an independent practitioner
while she raised her family.
In 1965, Professor Jackson joined the faculty of The University of Michigan
School of Nursing as an instructor. She was named assistant professor of nursing and
research associate at the Institute of Social Research in 1966. While maintaining
these titles and responsibilities, Professor Jackson designed and served as coordinator


-11 -



July Meeting, 1988


of the Clinical Nursing Specialist Program at University Hospital, one of the first such
efforts in the nation. She later accepted an appointment as clinical director of surgical
nursing and associate professor of nursing. In 1976, after more than 24 years of
increasingly responsible and visible professional experience, and after an extensive
national search, Professor Jackson was appointed chief of nursing at University
Hospital. During this period, she continued a faculty appointment, thereby fulfilling
her commitment to the interaction of nursing education and nursing practice.
Professor Jackson eventually returned to a full-time faculty position and served as
interim director of the Nursing Health Services Administration Program.
Professor Jackson is highly respected for her innovative work in the
development of the clinical nurse specialist role, the clinical career program, and the
standards of nursing practice. As a faculty member, she has been active in both school
and University committees, including serving two terms as president of The University
of Michigan chapter of the American Association of University Professors. She has
worked tirelessly in professional nursing organizations and has chaired numerous
committees at state and national levels. She is a recognized expert and frequent
speaker on the elements of humor in leadership. Professor Jackson's recent scholarly
focus on the moral dimensions of humor in nursing places her as a unique contributor
to the development of nursing leadership.
The Regents now salute this progressive nursing leader who has demonstrated
commitment to the highest ideals of the University and of the profession of nursing by
naming Marjorie M. Jackson Associate Professor Emeritus of Nursing.
Charles W. Joiner, Professor of Law, resigned from active faculty status on May
31, 1968, to become dean of Wayne State University Law School. Since 1972,
Professor Joiner has been a United States district judge. During his years as judge, he
served regularly as an adjunct lecturer at The University of Michigan Law School, last
teaching in 1983-84.
Professor Joiner received his B.A. and J.D. degrees from the University of Iowa
in 1937 and 1939, respectively. After wartime service and five years of private practice
in Des Moines, he joined The University of Michigan faculty as assistant professor in
1947. He was promoted to associate professor in 1950 and professor in 1953. He
served as associate dean of the Law School in 1960-65 and as acting dean in 1964-65.
In 1967, Professor Joiner chaired the University's sesquicentennial celebration.
As a teacher and scholar, Professor Joiner devoted himself primarily to civil
procedure and trial practice. He authored or co-authored six books on these subjects.
He pioneered one of the first simulated litigation courses in the country, using films of
accidents from various angles to prepare witnesses for testifying in moot court
exercises. He also helped organize what is now the famous annual Advocacy Institute.
For the past three decades, Professor Joiner has been a major figure in the legal
profession at both the state and national levels. Among many other accomplishments,
he was co-director of the research and drafting committee for the Michigan
Constitutional Convention in 1961-62 and president of the State Bar in 1970-71. Since
1963, he has been a commissioner on Uniform State Laws, and he is currently the
Michigan chairperson of this influential body. In 1977-78, he served as chairman of
the American Bar Foundation. He also chaired the American Bar Association's
committee on specialization in 1952-56 and its section on individual rights and
responsibilities in 1976-77. In addition, for many years Professor Joiner has had a
principal hand in drafting rules of evidence and procedure for the federal and state
courts.
The Regents now salute this distinguished servant of the law and of the
University by naming Charles W. Joiner Professor Emeritus of Law.


-12 -



July Meeting, 1988


Robert L. Kahn, Professor of Psychology in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy in the School of
Public Health, and Research Scientist in the Institute for Social Research, retired from
active faculty status on June 30, 1988.
Professor Kahn received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from The University
of Michigan in 1939, 1949, and 1952, respectively. Among his honors are election to
Phi Beta Kappa and to Sigma Xi, book awards from the American College of Hospital
Administrators and the Academy of Management, fellowships at the Center for
Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, and an honorary Ph.D. in social science
from the University of Amsterdam. He joined the Institute for Social Research in
1949, soon after it was founded, as a study director. He was promoted to assistant
program director in 1951, program director in 1952, and research coordinator in 1961.
He served as acting director of the Institute's Survey Research Center from 1968 to
1969, and as director of the Survey Research Center from 1970 to 1976. In the
Department of Psychology, he was appointed lecturer in 1952, associate professor in
1955, and professor in 1960. He was named professor in the Department of Medical
Care Organization -- now the Department of Health Services Management and Policy
-- in 1980.
Professor Kahn is internationally renowned for his research on organizations
and as a survey research methodologist. His book, Social Psychology of Organizations
(co-authored with Dan Katz), first published in 1966, reconceptualized the field of
organizational psychology and has inspired much research by other investigators. His
own empirical research on organizations is reported in several other books, including
Organizational Stress, Bureaucratic Encounters, The Study of Organizations, and Work
and Health. Professor Kahn is co-author (with Charles Cannell) of a volume
recognized as a classic in the field of survey research interviewing, The Dynamics of
Interviewing, and (with Robert Groves) of the first major book on telephone
interviewing, Surveys by Telephone.
Professor Kahn's wisdom and expertise in the social sciences led to his
repeatedly being asked to serve in leadership roles. He was elected president of the
Society for Psychological Study of Social Issues and to the Council of Representatives
of the American Psychological Association. He has also served on the National
Academy of Sciences, the President's Commission on Mental Health, the Social
Science Research Council, and the MacArthur Foundation, and has served on the
editorial boards of a number of journals. Professor Kahn has also played a central
role in teaching advanced courses in organizational psychology and in guiding
students' dissertation research. His University contributions were recognized with the
Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1985.
The Regents now salute this distinguished social scientist and teacher for his
dedicated service by naming Robert L. Kahn Professor Emeritus of Psychology and
Professor Emeritus of Health Services Management and Policy.
Greta B. Lipson, Associate Professor of Education at The University of
Michigan-Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 1988, following a
productive career as a teacher and scholar.
A native of Canada, Professor Lipson received her B.A., M.A., and Ed.D.
degrees in education from Wayne State University in 1964, 1968, and 1973,
respectively. Prior to culminating her academic studies, she taught in the Berkley
Public School System, served as a supervisor of student teachers, and was a part-time
instructor on the education faculty of Wayne State University.
From 1969 to 1973, Professor Lipson was a lecturer on the Dearborn campus
responsible for supervising student teachers. Upon completing her doctorate in 1973,
she joined the School of Education faculty at The University of Michigan-Dearborn as


-13 -



July Meeting, 1988


an assistant professor of education, with the additional administrative responsibility of
coordinating field-based laboratory assignments for all the school's students. She was
promoted to associate professor of education in 1978.
As a specialist in children's literature, Professor Lipson became a pioneer in
preserving the folk art of storytelling by hosting an annual storytelling conference
which brought nationally known folk artists to the Dearborn campus. A nationally
recognized author of children's stories, she was among the first scholars to edit and
restructure classical literature so that it might be read by today's elementary school
children. Her work along this line with ancient fables and Shakespeare's plays has
brought her a national audience.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher, educator, and author of
children's literature by naming Greta B. Lipson Associate Professor Emeritus of
Education.
Edward J. Mitchell, Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy in the
School of Business Administration, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1988.
Professor Mitchell graduated summa cum laude from Bowling Green State
University in 1960 with a B.A. degree. He attended Nuffield College, Oxford
University from 1963-64 and was awarded his Ph.D. degree in 1966 from the
University of Pennsylvania. He held regular and visiting professorships at the
University of Pennsylvania, the California Institute of Technology, and Cornell
University before his appointment at The University of Michigan in 1973 as an
associate professor of business economics. In 1976, he was promoted to professor of
business economics in recognition of his achievements. Professor Mitchell currently
serves as director of Energy Policy Studies and as an advisory council member at the
American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research.
Throughout his career, Professor Mitchell has held numerous government
appointments. Most recently he served on President Reagan's Task Force on Energy
Policy, the Advisory Board of the Council for a Competitive Economy, and the Energy
Finance Advisory Committee of the Federal Energy Administration. Earlier, he
served as senior staff economist on the President's Council of Economic Advisors and
as executive director of the Energy Subcommittee, President's Domestic Affairs
Council.
Professor Mitchell was viewed as an extremely knowledgeable teacher in his
areas of research specialization -- the economics of energy and energy policy and
regulation. More recently, his research has expanded to include imperfection in
securities markets. Professor Mitchell was an active participant in school affairs and
served on several school committees, in addition to serving as chairman of the
business economics faculty for several years.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Edward J.
Mitchell Professor Emeritus of Business Economics and Public Policy.
Rudolf B. Schmerl, Associate Professor of Education, retired from active faculty
status on April 30, 1988, after 31 years of service to The University of Michigan.
Professor Schmerl earned his B.A. degree in 1951 and his M.A. degree in 1952,
both from the University of Toledo. He received his Ph.D. degree from The
University of Michigan in English language and literature in 1960.
Professor Schmerl's tenure at The University of Michigan was marked by a
broad and diverse range of teaching, research, and administrative service. He began
his career at the University's Office of Research Administration as an editorial
assistant in 1957, and by 1963 had become ORA's director of Program Development.
In 1965, he was also named assistant professor in the Department of English in the
College of Engineering. He served as assistant dean of research in the School of


-14 -



July Meeting, 1988


Education from 1970 to 1979, and in 1976 was promoted to associate professor of
education.
Professor Schmerl's publications, which include books, monographs, journal
articles, essays, and literary criticism, covered such topics as utopian novels, social
criticism, the teaching of English, problems in higher education, problems of race and
ethnicity in American life, problems of research administration, technical writing, and
communication and planning.
For over twenty years, Professor Schmerl was also actively engaged in assisting
traditionally Black institutions of higher education in improving the quality of their
efforts. He served as a visiting professor of English and consultant in program
development at The Tuskegee Institute from 1966 to 1967 and as the planning director
(vice president) for the newly established Wayne County Community College from
1969 to 1970. These assignments represented the first systematic efforts on the part of
the University to confront the issue of diversity in higher education. Professor
Schmerl continued in both formal and informal ways to assist institutions that serve
diverse constituencies, including Tennessee State University, Prairie View A&M,
Navajo Community College, Lincoln University, and Rust College.
Finally, it should be noted that Professor Schmerl's association with The
University of Michigan was part of a unique subculture of American intellectual life.
As one of a number of immigrants who escaped the tyranny of European
totalitarianism in the 1930s and found their way into academic settings in the United
States, Professor Schmerl contributed greatly to the quality of the University's
intellectual life and provided distinguished leadership and service to the entire
community.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Rudolf B.
Schmerl Associate Professor Emeritus of Education.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
approved the tentative doctoral degree list for the August, 1988 commencement. On
recommendation of the proper authority in each case, the Regents also approved
amendments to previously approved degree lists.
Additional Nominees to the Board of Trustees of the Business School Growth Fund
The Regents unanimously approved the appointments of Cleveland Christophe
and Mary Lincoln Campbell to the Board of Trustees of the Business School Growth
Fund.
Vacant Lots, Freedom Township, Washtenaw County
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously authorized the sale of twenty-four and one-half vacant lots, totalling 1.8
acres, in Freedom Township, Washtenaw County.
Krause Street Parking Lot
The Regents then turned to a proposal that they authorize the execution of a
parking agreement to establish guidelines for C-3 Partners to purchase and/or lease
spaces in the Krause Street parking lot. This had been deferred from the June 1988
meeting, pending receipt of more information by the Regents. There was extensive
discussion about whether the appraised value of the lots was accurate, why the


-15 -



July Meeting, 1988


University had originally offered the right of first refusal to purchase the spaces to C-3
Partners, what are the University's long-term intentions for use of the Argus I
Building, and how the University can avoid getting into a similar situation in the
future.
Vice President Womack agreed to provide additional background
documentation prior to the next day's meeting session. The item was therefore tabled
until the following day.
Faculty Research Presentation
The Regents heard a presentation by Fawwaz Ulaby, Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science and Director of the Radiation Laboratory, about
his work as the lead investigator of the NASA Center for Space Terahertz Technology.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Corey Dolgan, student, on the Civil Liberties Board guidelines; Aaron
Williams, John Coleman, and Karen Ball, students, on MSA funding; and Michael
Phillips, student and president of Michigan Student Assembly, on MSA funding.
The meeting was recessed until the following day.
Friday, July 22, 1988
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. Present were the President and Regents Baker,
Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and
Secretary Kennedy, Provost Duderstadt, and Vice Presidents Womack, Cosovich, and
Johnson were also present, as were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Vice President
Wilson was absent; Associate Vice President Nagy attended in her place.
Krause Street Parking Lot
As the first item of business, the Regents turned to the Krause Street Parking
Lot issue that had been deferred from the previous day. Vice President Womack
reviewed the history of the University's interests in the Argus Buildings and their
relationship to the Krause Street parking lot. In 1983 the Regents authorized the sale
of the Argus I Building. It was sold for $431,000 to C-3 Partners. In order for C-3 to
make the improvements it wished to make, the City of Ann Arbor required them to
have sufficient parking to meet its zoning ordinances. Thus, in 1984 the University
executed a parking agreement that granted to C-3 Partners the right to "purchase or
lease and use at any time hereafter" parking spaces not to exceed 100 in the Krause
Street parking lot. The Regents are now being asked to formalize this agreement.
Vice President Womack emphasized that neither Argus I, II, and III are marketable
properties without the parking spaces, due to Ann Arbor ordinance requirements.
The request before the Regents is to grant to C-3 the option to purchase or lease 100
spaces at a price of $1,103 per space if it is sold ($110,000) or $285 per space if leased.
If the University sells the third Argus property, the same kind of parking requirements
will apply.


-16 -



July Meeting, 1988


Regent Nielsen suggested that the regents enter into a lease agreement that is
for a "time certain"; not in perpetuity. As part of the consideration, all past
agreements would be voided. Regent Roach moved that Vice President Womack be
authorized to negotiate an option to lease and an option to purchase this property to
C-3 Partners; that those options contain times of exercise and not the indefinite "in the
future" at either a fixed price or a formula price, as is appropriate. Regent Brown
seconded the motion. Regent Nielsen suggested that only an option to lease be
negotiated, not an option to purchase. That would terminate all of the vested rights in
the property.
Regent Roach responded that neither Argus I, II, or III are viable properties
unless they have parking rights. If those rights are subject to divestment at the end of
a lease, they are not apt to be willing to spend money to improve the buildings unless
they can be assured they will have parking to satisfy Ann Arbor requirements. The
negotiations also need to clear up what exactly the University is selling and what the
parties are buying (in terms of individual parking spaces or pieces of real estate). In
addition, the University's maintenance obligations need to be negotiated.
Regent Nielsen reiterated his opinion that the University should not sell the
property; rather it should lease the property and negotiate the maintenance costs as
part of the lease agreement. The University should also terminate the option to
purchase the Fourth Street lot, as part of the negotiations concerning the Krause
Street lot.
Regent Power asked Vice President Womack which position would give the
University maximum negotiating room. Vice President Womack responded that the
options to either sell th he whole lot or lease it would give the greatest negotiating room.
The advantage of a lease would be that the University retains the authority to make
subsequent decisions about that property and the University retains the revenue
stream associated with the property. Regent Power observed that given the current
level of development in that area, it would be better not to sell the property.
Regent Baker moved a substitute motion that the land be retained and that
negotiations be entered into to accommodate the needs of C-3 Partners subject to
regental approval. There was no second to that motion.
The vote was then called on Regent Roach's motion. The motion failed, with
Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Smith, and Varner opposed and Regents Roach,
Waters, and Brown in favor.
Regent Nielsen then moved that Vice President Womack be authorized to
renegotiate all of the agreements that have been entered into with C-3 Partners and
First Martin Corporation concerning both the Williams/Fourth Street and Krause
Street parking lots. As part of the negotiations, the University will terminate any
interest that either of the parties has in the Williams/Fourth Street lot, and enter into
an appropriate lease-only agreement for the Krause Street lot. The University will
retain its ownership interests in this lot, terminating the in perpetuity interest in it. The
specific details concerning timing and dollar amounts will be left to the discretion of
Vice President Womack. Regent Power seconded this motion, and it carried
unanimously.


-17 -



July Meeting, 1988


Reuse of Matt Mann Pool Building for Women's Varsity Intercollegiate Athletics
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents voted to
approve converting the Matt Mann Pool Building into a gymnasium and support space
for women's intercollegiate athletics and for women's and men's gymnastics.
General Campus Renovation Project: The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Regent Nielsen moved that the Regents authorize receiving bids for the interior
demolition of the Student Activities Building as part of the Dearborn campus's
General Campus Renovation Project. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was
adopted.
Remodeling/Renovation Projects
The Regents approved the following projects: Installation of a fiber network;
Mitchell Recreation Field Lighting; Thompson Street Parking Structure Repairs;
University of Michigan Hospitals Patient Care Center Storage Project (requires
Certificate of Need approval from the Michigan Department of Public Health); and
University of Michigan Hospitals Incinerator Project.
Installation and Purchase of a Washer/Sterilizer
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Smith seconded, a motion to approve the
submission of a $300,000 Certificate of Need to the Michigan Department of Public
Health for the purchase and installation of a washer/sterilizer for the University
Hospital Operating Rooms.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property
(Transient Mode Dissolved Oxygen Measurement System and CLARENCE Software)
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved the assignment agreements between the University and the following
employee/inventors: Professor Henry Y. Wang and Xiang-Ming Li (Transient Mode
Dissolved Oxygen Measurement System) and Professors George J. Siedel and David
C. Blair (CLARENCE Software), which incorporate the standard terms approved by
the Board of Regents on July 16, 1987. The following information is provided in
compliance with requirements of the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute:
i.  Parties to the two Assignment Agreements will be:
1.  The University of Michigan and Henry Y. Wang and Xiang-Ming
Li;
2.  The University of Michigan and George J. Siedel and David C.
Blair.
ii.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987 and are hereby incorporated
by reference in this motion.


-18 -



July Meeting, 1988


1988-89 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly (MSA), Michigan Collegiate
Coalition (MCC), and School/College Governments
Regent Power stated that he would be offering an amendment to the action
request. This amendment would delete the sentence that reads:
"It is further recommended that MSA use the consulting services provided by
the staff of the Student Organization and Development Center (SODC) for
the purpose of identifying and developing MSA's goals and functional
objectives."
Regent Power's amendment would substitute the following language:
"The Michigan Student Assembly is further directed to begin immediate
consultation with the Student Organization Development Center regarding
developing specific ways and means of improving and increasing its credibility,
responsibility, and effectiveness on behalf of the respective school/college
governments and the student body as a whole.
In addition, such consultations shall include substantive dialogue with relevant
constituent representatives including school/college representatives, the Resident
Hall Association, Panhellenic Council and the Interfraternity Council.
The outcomes of these discussions and subsequent strategies for improving
central student government shall be reported no later than the January, 1989
meeting of the Board of Regents."
Following an explanation by Vice President Johnson about MSA's planned use
of its allocation, and about whether the individual schools and colleges will be able to
effectively utilize their allocations, Regent Nielsen moved that the Regents authorize
a student fee of $7.33 as a base fee, and that there be a positive checkoff system of
$.50 per student per term for MSA. Of the $7.33, $4.00 would go to Student Legal
Services, $.55 to the Tenants' Union, $.10 to ADVICE, $.35 to MCC, and the balance
to be spent as MSA feels appropriate.
Regent Nielsen explained that he feels that students ought to have input as to
how their student fees are collected and allocated to MSA. He is reluctant to have the
Regents force MSA to make use of consulting services, since it is not the Regents'
place to determine the student's governing structure. Students need to determine
whether to take advantage of consulting services themselves.
Regent Roach asked Regent Nielsen to clarify his motion to include $1.00 to the
school and college governments. That would change the base fee to $6.33. Regent
Nielsen accepted that clarification as being the original intent of his motion. Regent
Roach seconded the motion.
Regent Baker stated his opinion that MSA is in disarray and for it to ask for a
funding increase was not responsible. Although the intent of Regent Power's
amendment was to require MSA to make improvements, he continued, "if it were not
funded, it would have to shape itself up." Regarding the Michigan Collegiate
Coalition, he said that there should be specific language in the Regent's motion to
prevent funds from being used to support candidates for public office. He offered an


-19 -



July Meeting, 1988


amendment to Regent Nielsen's motion to that affect; this was supported by Regents'
Nielsen and Roach.
Regent Roach proposed an additional amendment stating that funding be cut
off if the Michigan Collegiate Coalition were to adopt a lobbying position that is
against the interests of the University. Regent Power noted that there are two issues
involved in this discussion: 1) the level of MSA funding and how funding takes place
and the appropriate channels through which funding is sent, and 2) student
governance at the University. By confusing these two topics, he cautioned, the
Regents are running the risk of engaging in micromanagement in instructing student
government to behave in certain kinds of ways and not to behave in other kinds of
ways. His amendment is intended to be responsive to the Board's perception that
MSA has not functioned as effectively as it ought to, and that on occasion it has been
significantly irresponsible and has unnecessarily involved Regental activity. The cure
for this is not to restrict MSA's funding or activities or spending, but to seek to make
MSA consider how its operations might be improved. He further stated that he is
opposed to the notion of a positive checkoff.
Regent Nielsen seconded Regent Roach's amendment. Regent Baker
reiterated his belief that the Tenants Union had engaged in improper use of student
funds, and that the condition of MSA is unconscionable. The only way to solve these
problems, in his opinion, is to withdraw funding. Further discussion followed about
the cost of instituting a positive checkoff system. University Controller Chandler
Matthews stated that a $.50 checkoff system would be complicated and would not be
cost productive for the University.
President Fleming urged the Regents not to pass these motions. If the Regents
don't want to fund portions of MSA's request, it would be better simply not to
authorize funding, rather than to institute a positive checkoff system.
Regent Roach withdrew his amendment, but stated that he would move to cut
off all funding for the Michigan Collegiate Coalition if it were to lobby against the
University's interests. Regent Nielsen restated his motion: a base budget of $6.33,
plus $1.00 to the school and college governments. Of the $6.33, $4.00 is reserved for
Student Legal Services, $.55 to the Tenants' Union, $.10 to ADVICE, and $.35 to
MCC. An additional $.50 positive checkoff amount would be allocated to MSA, to be
used however MSA deemed appropriate. Regent Brown pointed out the problems
associated with the costs of a positive checkoff system. He also stated that he objected
to the Regents' specifying how MSA should spend its funding allocation. Vice
President Johnson and President Fleming pointed out that the spending breakdown
had been identified by MSA itself in its own budget and reflected how MSA defined
itself programmatically. The Regents would be approving MSA's own spending plan.
Regent Power agreed with Regent Brown that the Regents should only allocate a base
amount to student government, and should have no voice in determining how that
money would be spent.
Regent Nielsen agreed, and revised his motion as follows: Pursuant to the
request for budget funding for MSA, including Student Legal Services, the Tenants'
Union, ADVICE, and MCC, the Regents authorize a fee of $6.33 per student per term
for MSA, $1.00 for the individual school and college governments, and an additional
$.50 as a positive checkoff for each student, which would go directly to MSA and be
spent as MSA felt appropriate.


-20 -



July Meeting, 1988


Further discussion followed about the costs of instituting and maintaining a
positive checkoff system. Regent Varner stated that she preferred a flat fee to a
positive checkoff, suggesting that if the Regents wished to place controls on MSA, they
do it by reducints ning itsdinincrease rather than by a positive checkoff. She was
supportive of the proposal that MSA be instructed to take steps to increase its
organizational effectiveness and responsiveness as a body.
Regent Power moved to substitute for Regent Nielsen's motion the entire action
request, replacing the penultimate paragraph with the amendment stated at the
beginning of the discussion. Regent Brown seconded the motion. Regent Baker
moved to amend Regent Power's substitute to include in the substitute motion a
statement that the MCC would not take a position on any candidates for public office.
Regent Roach seconded that motion. Regent Brown stated his opposition to Regent
Baker's amendment. Following further discussion, the vote was called on Regent
Baker's amendment. It was defeated by a vote of 7 to 1, with Regent Baker in support,
and the other Regents opposed.
Regent Power moved to delete the second and third paragraphs of the action
request, and replace them with the following sentence:
"This year, we are recommending that the Regents approve a flat fee
allocation of $6.48 to MSA, $1.00 to schools and colleges, and $.35 to
Michigan Collegiate Coalition."
Regent Waters seconded that amendment. Regent Nielsen moved to amend
that motion by allocating $6.33 to MSA for the fall and winter terms, and to review in
November whether an additional $.50 would be allocated for the winter term. Regent
Smith seconded that amendment. Regent Power accepted that as a friendly
amendment; Regent Waters did not accept it as the seconder. The vote was called on
Regent Power's amendment; it passed, with seven Regents in favor and Regent Baker
abstaining.
Regent Nielsen moved to further amend the motion to read "a flat fee allocation
of $5.98 to MSA, $1.00 to schools and colleges, and $.35 to Michigan Collegiate
Coalition. In addition, the Regents would consider in November 1988 whether to
allocate an additional $.50 to MSA for the winter term of 1989. Regent Roach
seconded the motion. Regent Varner said that she felt that November 1988 would not
allow enough time to judge whether changes in the student government operations
had occurred. The vote was called, and the motion failed, with Regents Smith and
Nielsen in favor, Regent Baker abstaining, and the majority of the Regents opposed.
Regent Roach moved to amend the motion to reduce the appropriation to MSA
in Regent Power's motion from $6.48 to $6.28, as a clear signal of the lack of
responsibility that has been demonstrated by MSA. Regent Power supported that
motion. The motion carried, with Regents Brown, Roach, Nielsen, Power, Smith, and
Varner in favor, Regent Waters opposed, and Regent Baker abstaining.
Regent Nielsen withdrew his amendment to the main motion. The vote was
called on Regent Power's motion; it carried, with 7 in favor and Regent Baker
abstaining.


-21 -



July Meeting, 1988


The following is the text of the approved Action Item:
At their June, 1987 meeting, the Regents authorized an increase in the
MSA student fee from $5.40 to $7.00 for 1987-88 for the expansion of existing
programs and new programs support. The increase for the 1987-88 Academic
Year was limited to 5%.
This year, The Regents have approved a flat fee allocation of $6.28 to
MSA, $1.00 to schools and colleges, and $.35 to Michigan Collegiate
Coalition.
The Michigan Student Assembly is further directed to begin immediate
consultation with the Student Organization Development Center regarding
developing specific ways and means of improving and increasing its credibility,
responsibility, and effectiveness on behalf of the respective school/college
governments and the student body as a whole.
In addition, such consultations shall include substantive dialogue with
relevant constituent representatives including school/college representatives,
the Resident Hall Association, Panhellenic Council and the Interfraterity
Council.
The outcomes of these discussions and subsequent strategies for
improving central student government shall be reported no later than the
January, 1989 meeting of the Board of Regents.
Use of Attorneys to Defend University Personnel
The Regents received a report from the General Counsel's Office on the way in
which the University uses attorneys to defend University personnel.
Recommendations for Appointment to Medical Staff Membership
The Regents approved several recommendations for appointment to medical
staff membership.
Maintenance Projects at the President's House
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
approved an addition to the mechanical improvements project at the President's
House that had been approved at the June, 1988 meeting. Regent Roach pointed out
that the President's House is the last remaining building of the original University of
Michigan campus, and represents an important part of the history and heritage of the
University. As such, it is important to preserve and protect it at all costs.
1988-89 Revenue Budgets, All Three Campuses; 1988-89 Student Fee Rates, All
Three Campuses
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Waters seconded, the approval of the
summary revenue budgets for 1988-89 for all three campuses. These include
$1,412,251,000 for the Ann Arbor campus, $33,506,000 for the Dearborn campus, and
$28,760,000 for the Flint campus, for a total of $1,474,517,000. Included in these
budgets are the proposed average student fee rate increases of 12% for each campus.


-22 -



July Meeting, 1988


Regents Baker and Smith expressed their opinions that the proposed tuition
increases were too high. Regent Smith noted that the cumulative tuition increases of
24.3% over the past three years have been higher than the rate of inflation. Such
increases create a hardship for students from middle class families who are not eligible
for financial aid. Regent Power noted that the Michigan Education Trust had been
developed to respond to the problem of tuition growth, and that the hope was that this
would be a mechanism by which to ameliorate these problems. Regent Nielsen agreed
with Regents Baker and Smith that the proposed increases, coupled with those of the
previous two years, were too high, and that the Michigan Education Trust may not
have the capacity to deal with the types of increases now being contemplated.
Regent Varner observed that if the state would not provide adequate funding
for higher education, there is no other way to maintain The University of Michigan as
a first class institution other than to raise fees. The overriding concern ought to be to
maintain quality; if she had to choose between not supporting the increase and
presiding over a lower quality institution, she would support the tuition increase.
Regent Brown noted that although none of the Regents enjoys having to raise
tuition, the average increase over the past 6 years, during which there were several
years in which the University did not raise tuition at all, will have been 4% per year,
which is not enough to keep pace with inflation. He has always been satisfied that the
University's executive officers have "done all that can be done" to trim the budget and
reduce spending without harming quality. The University's 12% increase is lower than
increases that have either already been approved or are under consideration for other
state universities. With a quality comparable to that of the best universities in the
country, he continued, the University of Michigan offers "the best bargain in education
in the United States". Tuition rates are the only means at the University's disposal for
balancing the budget, he concluded.
Regent Baker stated that he was not persuaded that the University could not
find a way to reduce the budget further. He moved to amend the motion to approve
the budget, with the stipulation that the tuition increase be restricted to 8%. This
would require that $5.2 million be reduced from the proposed budget. Regent Smith
seconded the motion. Following some discussion, the vote was called and the
amendment failed, with Regents Baker, Nielsen, and Smith in favor and Regents
Brown, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters opposed. The vote was then called on the
original motion; it passed, with Regents Brown, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters in
favor and Regents Baker, Nielsen, and Smith opposed.
Regent Brown commented that it is grossly unfair for the Regents to have been
put in a position of approving a 12% increase in the budget without having had the
option to review a budget that would have incorporated the reduction that had been
supported by a minority of the Board. "If someone wants to vote against a budget that
is presented," he said, "he ought to have an alternative to present for consideration."
Regent Baker stated that the University had frequently reduced its budgets in times of
reduced income, and further, such actions are entirely responsible alternatives.
It was noted that the individual Action Requests regarding student fee rates
were all incorporated into the above motion that authorized approval of the 1988-89
revenue budgets.


-23 -



July Meeting, 1988


1988-89 General Fund Operating Budget, UM-Ann Arbor; 1988-89 General Fund
Budget, UM-Dearborn; 1988-89 General Fund Budget, UM-Flint
The Regents received information on the 1988-89 General Fund operating
budgets for all three campuses.
Disruption of University Activities
Regent Baker moved to approve the policy on disruption of University activities.
Regent Roach seconded the motion. Noting that it has been customary for Regents
not to take action on issues that affect students when a majority of students are away
from campus, Regent Smith moved to table consideration of this item. The motion
failed for lack of a second. Regent Smith then requested that each recommendation
in the action request be considered separately.
President Fleming called for consideration of the first recommendation, that the
Regents "approve and adopt the 1988 Civil Liberties Board recommendations on
freedom of speech and artistic expression. This is a revision of the 1977 statement
which is now in effect, and is an even-handed treatment of the rights of speakers,
protesters and the University community in general." This recommendation was
unanimously approved.
Regent Smith then introduced the following substitute recommendations for
Recommendations 2 and 3: "The Regents request that the University Council
recommend to the Regents a) Amendments to Bylaw 7.02 which will cure its present
deficiencies and enable it to function effectively; and b) Uniform regulation governing
conduct and enforcement procedures as set forth in Bylaw 7.02. Should the University
Council fail to carry out these requests, Bylaw 7.02 will automatically expire at the end
of May, 1989."
Regent Smith said that her recommendations would give Provost Duderstadt
the opportunity (when he becomes President) to do the things he said he was going to
do when he became president. She recalled his comments that in working with
students and in particular student government, we can make some common sense of
fundamental rules that protect values such as truth, honesty, tolerance, and respect,
which must govern a scholarly community such as The University of Michigan. She
urged the Regents to give Provost Duderstadt the opportunity to put into effect some
of his plans and to share her faith in students.
Provost Duderstadt agreed that he feels student participation is extremely
important. He also believes that this could be achieved either under the original
recommended action or via Regent Smith's amendment. In response to a question
from Regent Nielsen, he stated he is more familiar with the original recommendation,
and that he hadn't had an opportunity to react to the substitute.
Regent Baker noted that this issue had been under discussion for several years,
and he was grateful to President Fleming for having tried to put this and similar
controversial issues to rest before the start of the next president's term. For this
reason, he felt the Board should proceed now.
Regent Roach seconded Regent Smith's substitute motion, noting that the only
substantive difference between this and the original relates to the process by which the
rules of enforcement of the policies of the Civil Liberties Board would be developed.


-24 -



July Meeting, 1988


He noted that for many years, the University Council has been unable to agree on
rules; Regent Smith's amendment would be saying in effect that the Regents would be
adopting a policy but they wouldn't implement it for a year. Following further
discussion, the vote was called on Regent Smith's amendment. It failed, with Regent
Smith in favor and the remaining Regents opposed.
Regent Nielsen moved adoption of the balance of the items on the action
request. Regent Brown seconded the motion. Regent Power commended the Civil
Liberties Board for having carefully studied this issue and for giving guidance to the
Board. Regent Smith noted her concern over the University's being sued for false
arrest were the Regents to approve the provision to deputize the University's two top
security officers. She also expressed her concern over the possibility that the
deputized officers would carry arms. President Fleming pointed out that the
deputized officers would not be authorized to carry arms at any time at all when
dealing with students. Regent Baker pointed out that there are benefits to University
security officers having the power to arrest, among which are the ability to deter the
sale of illegal drugs on campus. The question was called; Regent Nielsen's motion was
adopted, with Regent Smith opposed, and the other Regents in favor. The Policy on
Disruption of Student Activities approved by the Regents reads as follows:
1.  The Regents hereby approve and adopt the 1988 Civil Liberties
Board recommendations on freedom of speech and artistic
expression. This is a revision of the 1977 statement which is now in
effect, and is an even-handed treatment of the rights of speakers,
protesters and the University community in general.
2.  In light of the demonstrated inability of the University Council to
propose and obtain the required ratification of uniform regulations
governing conduct (as provided in Bylaw 7.02), the Regents direct the
President to use his powers under Bylaw 2.01 to have drafted such
rules of conduct and enforcement procedures as are necessary. The
President will then allow the University community ample time to
review and propose revisions in such rules and procedures before they
are brought to the Regents for approval.
3.  Meanwhile, the Regents invite the University Council to recommend
to them amendments to Bylaw 7.02 which will cure its present
deficiencies and enable it to function effectively in recommending
uniform rules to the Regents. Attached to this invitation a
notification that Bylaw 7.02 will automatically expire at the end of
May, 1989, unless amendments to Bylaw 7.02 have been proposed and
adopted by that date.
4.  The Regents authorize improving the University's police posture by
arranging with the Washtenaw County Sheriff to have its two top
Department of Public Safety personnel deputized and thereby
authorized to make arrests. We are informed that ours is the only
Department of Public Safety force in either the Big Ten or among all
Michigan public institutions of higher education which does not
presently have such power. (In this connection, it is stressed that we
would not permit our deputized officers to carry arms while dealing
with protest activities. Guns in the hands of University personnel
have no place in campus disputes, as experience shows. We do not


-25 -



July Meeting, 1988


want our people using guns; we do not want to tempt others to seize
such arms; and we do not want others carrying arms based upon the
pretext that our Department of Public Safety employees are armed.
The value of deputizing our officers is simply to give them the power
of arrest in cases where this would be effective, and in giving us access
to the county law enforcement machinery for processing violations of
civil/criminal law.)
5.  Given the special importance to the University of freedom of speech
and artistic expression, the Regents direct that the President present
an annual report on the subject to the Regents.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Diversity Day
President Fleming reported that the response from students and faculty to the
idea of classes being suspended on Monday, January 16, 1989 to hold a Diversity Day
had been positive.
Regent Baker read from a letter he had received from a mother of a student
who had attended orientation, expressing her concern over the presentations that had
been given about homosexuality. "... The LaGroc Organization and their interests
were brought up at two of the required meetings of the orientation group.... It was in
the video under 'Choices' and also part of the drama on the second evening that
homosexuality was presented as not being a choice any more than one's race is a
choice." Regent Baker said that because the student's moral beliefs were offended
both by orientation presentations and by the orientation edition of The Michigan Daily,
the student had decided to withdraw from the University. He continued, "The
University has a responsibility not to offend sincere young people and cause them such
distress that they do not wish to continue their education at this university."
In response to Regent Baker's inquiry, President Fleming stated that all
activities being planned for Martin Luther King, Jr. Diversity Day will be voluntary.
Comments Regarding President Fleming's Service as Interim President
The Regents expressed their appreciation for President Fleming's service as
Interim President since January, 1988. Regent Roach said that it is remarkable that in
the seven months he had served as Interim President, President Fleming had not been
merely a caretaker; he had helped the Regents move through a difficult year in terms
of financial planning and in closing the agenda on some difficult items related to
openness in the University, free speech, and the necessity to end discrimination. "We
really admire, respect, and thank you for everything you've done." The Regents also
thanked Mrs. Fleming for her contributions, and stated that a formal resolution would
be presented at the September meeting.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on July 22, 1988, ten minutes following the end of the Regents


-26 -



July Meeting, 1988


meeting, for the purpose of consulting with the Board's attorney regarding
trial or settlement strategy in connection with specific pending litigation.
Regent Waters seconded the motion, and it was adopted.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will be held on September 15 and 16, 1988. Transportation, accommodation, and
other expenses for the month of June, 1988 totalled $6,876.89.
harc. Kennedy, Se


-27 -



SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, September 15, 1988
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Vice Presidents
Johnson, Wilson, Womack, and Associate Vice President Holbrook were also present,
as were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters and Vice President Cosovich
were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and noted that President
Emeritus and Mrs. Fleming were in attendance. He asked them to step forward and
introduced Regent Brown, who read the following resolution:
Resolution in Honor of Robben W. Fleming
The Regents of The University of Michigan once again gratefully
acknowledge the contributions of Robben W. Fleming, who completed an
eight-month assignment as Interim President of the University on August 31,
1988.
In the fall of 1987 it became clear that the Regents would not be able to
complete their search for a new president by the time that President Harold
Shapiro's term was to conclude. They sought out and happily persuaded
Robben Fleming to serve in the interim period that began on January 1, 1988.
Thus did he resume the reins of leadership and proceed to carry the
institution forward with his fondly remembered style of artful persuasion. The
challenges of the period were not left to later resolution by a new
administration. They were dealt with in the same effective, forthright manner
that characterized his previous eleven-year presidency that spanned the period
from 1967 to 1978.
And so the Regents and the entire University community convey once more
their deep appreciation to Bob and Sally Fleming for serving so well and so
unselfishly in this further demonstration of their love and dedication to a
grateful institution.
Following Regent Brown's reading of the resolution, the Flemings received a
standing ovation. President Emeritus and Mrs. Fleming both expressed their thanks to
the Regents, and spoke of their deep affection for the University. President
Duderstadt noted that during their recent service in the interim presidency, the
Flemings had served as mentors and role models for both him and Mrs. Duderstadt.
Appointment of Robert S. Holbrook as Interim Vice President for Academic Affairs
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents


-29 -



September Meeting, 1988


unanimously approved the appointment of Associate Vice President for Academic
Affairs Robert S. Holbrook as Interim Vice President for Academic Affairs.
1988-89 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets, All Three Campuses
Interim Vice President Holbrook gave a report on actions that had been taken
regarding the budget since the Regents last meeting in July. At that time, the final
amount of the state appropriation had not yet been approved. Thus, a deficit of $1.6
million had been budgeted, with the promise that it would be eliminated either via
final state action or by the University's budget planners. In July, the Regents had also
approved a general tuition increase of 12%. The final appropriation did reduce the
deficit by $850,000; however, for the third consecutive year, the University's base
budget increase was last among all of the 15 public institutions in Michigan. The
University had intended to adjust its budget by the remaining $750,000 that the state
had not appropriated.
However, the governor then requested that all state institutions hold their
tuition and fee increases for resident undergraduates to less than 10%. Although the
University reluctantly agreed to this, it was felt that the corresponding reduction of $1
million in expenditures, coupled with the previously mentioned $750,000, would begin
to seriously affect its programs. Therefore, it was decided to restructure the tuition
and fee schedule so as to leave total revenue relatively unchanged, to minimize
disruption in the existing structure, keep the changes as simple and understandable as
possible, and spread the increased cost as widely as possible among the group not
included in the governor's request. In keeping with this philosophy, the decision was
made to increase the registration fee paid each term by every student from $30 to $60
per term. This brought revenues back to within a few thousand dollars of the original
amount. (Details of the revised budget and tuition and fee schedules are described in
the agenda materials that accompany the September, 1988 Regents' Meeting.)
Vice President Holbrook emphasized that although the revised budget has been
reduced by $750,000 since the Regents approved it in July, the total program it
represents is essentially unchanged. He recommended approval of the revised budget
and tuition and fee schedules for all three campuses; President Duderstadt noted that
such action would be requested the following day.
In response to a question by Regent Baker, Vice President Holbrook said that
the $30 per student fee increase would generate about $2 million; for the students who
are resident undergraduates, that amount is being offset by their tuition reduction
(from the July, 1988 level). Thus, their total increase in tuition and fees over what it
had been in Fall, 1987 amounts to 9.9%. It was also pointed out that the expenditure
budget has been adjusted to reflect the $800,000 deficit in the revenue budget. Regent
Roach commented on the shift of the tuition and fee burden from resident
undergraduates to nonresident undergraduates and all graduate students, and noted
that the time may come when the University will price itself out of the market.
Regent Baker stated that he and Regents Roach, Smith, and Varner had
attended a meeting with the governor in August to present the University's case for
increased funding. He noted that the problem of underfunding of higher education
began in 1960, and that there has been a steady decrease in the proportion of the total
general fund budget funded by the state since then of from 78% to 52%.
Regent Varner asked how the $800,000 deficit had been made up. Vice


-30 -



September Meeting, 1988


President Holbrook said that since it was not possible to cut back on such expenditures
as library acquisitions, it was decided to make up the deficit from one-time funds. This
means that some other expenditure, such as building maintenance or construction, that
would have been funded out of that money will not be able to be made. Regent
Varner noted that maintenance always seems to suffer in these situations, and asked
whether the legislature takes into account that more money is needed for building
maintenance on older campuses.
Vice President Kennedy replied that maintenance appropriations, which are
funded from the capital outlay budget, do not reflect the age of buildings.
Regent Brown observed that from the state's point of view, the most important
factor in funding of higher education is how Michigan's funding compares with that of
other states. Although Michigan has historically had a strong system of higher
education, he noted that other states are now surpassing Michigan in their
expenditures in this area. He said that investment in higher education is directly tied
to the strength of the state's economy. Regent Roach concurred, stating that in per
capita expenditures for higher education, Michigan has fallen from the top third to the
bottom third during the time he has been on the Board of Regents. This, he noted,
has bad policy implications for the state.
Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budget, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones stated that the Flint campus could be considered perhaps the
greatest victim in the final action on the state appropriation, because the final 3.5%
increase did not reflect the fact that a new building was opening on campus for which
the state was providing 50% of the operating expenses. Subtracting nonrecurring
(one-year-only) funds, which cannot really be considered a part of the operating
budget, the increase in state appropriations for the Flint campus amounts to only
about $40,000. The budget now before the Regents is downsized to reflect this. In
response to a question from Regent Varner, he explained that although the amount
budgeted for student aid was decreased, the percentage increase still matches that of
the final tuition increase.
Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budget, UM-Dearborn
Noting the extraordinary sensitivity of the Dearborn campus to tuition levels,
Chancellor Wilson said that the governor's request to hold down tuition increases had
resulted in a current deficit for the Dearborn campus of $290,000. She assured the
Regents that this would be brought into balance by January. She also stated that a
three-stage student fee increase that had been approved by the Regents in 1986 would
have reached $35 by 1988. Because of the governor's request, the Dearborn
administration had decided to delay this year's planned fee increase of $5.00 from Fall
of 1988 to Winter of 1989. She noted that Dearborn students had expressed a good
deal of concern about this.
Regent Baker said that this fee schedule had been agreed to by the Regents, the
students, and the administration, and he felt it was important that that commitment be
honored if at all possible. Regent Roach noted that of all the campuses, the
percentage of the general fund received from tuition revenues was highest at
UM-Dearborn (45%).


-31 -



September Meeting, 1988


University Annual Financial Statements, 1987-88
Vice President Womack stated that the Annual Financial statements include the
consolidated statements for the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses for the
General, Designated, Auxiliary Activities, Expendable Restricted, Student Loan,
Endowment and Other Invested, Plant, and Agency Funds. Separate audited
statements were prepared for the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics,
University of Michigan Hospitals, and University of Michigan Alumni Association;
reviewed financial statements are included for the Combined Medical Service Plans
and Related Medical Funds.
Year-End Financial Information for 1987-88
The Regents next reviewed the year-end financial information for 1987-88. Vice
President Womack noted that contributions from private gifts and sponsored programs
now comprise 9.4% of total revenues, which represents a 12.5% annualized rate of
growth over the past ten years. He confirmed the previously-noted trend of the
increase in the percentage of student fees used to make up the general fund budget as
the level of state support has decreased. He also noted that approximately 70% of the
University's general fund expenditures are for compensation.
In response to a question from Regent Power about the increase in percentage
of the budget allocated the supplies category over the y past ten years, Vice President
Womack said that a large portion of the increase is related to increases in the cost of
periodicals for University libraries. These costs are affected by changes in the value of
the dollar, since many periodicals are published outside of the United States. In
addition, costs of other supplies have also increased during this period.
Following further discussion, Regent Varner moved, and Regent Roach
seconded approval of the Annual Financial Statements and receipt of the Year-End
Financial Information. The motion was approved unanimously.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Baker, the Regents
unanimously approved the minutes of the meeting of July 21 and 22, 1988.
Reports
Report on Investment Transactions. Vice President Womack announced that
the August, 1988 yield on UM Temporary Investments was 8.554.
Vice President Womack also submitted the University Endowment Fund
Quarterly Inventory as of June 30, 1988, the Plant Extension Report, the Litigation
Report, and the Personnel-Labor Relations Report. Vice President Womack was
asked to provide information on the delays of two of the projects, and about whether
the contractor or the University retained liability risks regarding an accident that had
occurred at the Angell Hall Courtyard construction site. He was also asked to review
the current policy regarding the types of cases that are described in the litigation
report.
Vice President Wilson described the Summaries of a Selection of Current
Research and Sponsored Projects and the report of Awards Received, Research and


-32 -



September Meeting, 1988


Other Academic Activities. On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent
Smith, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the Reports.
Gifts and Grants
The Regents received the Report of Gifts Received for June, July, and August,
1988, and the Summary Report of Fiscal Year 1987-88.
A-2 Hotel Associates, Inc., Birmingham
for unrestricted support ofthe School of Art                               5,000
Arbor Area Foundation
for research in the Medical School                                         8,400
Ellen Alkon Rolling Hills Estates, California
for the Jane Skillen Memorial Endowment in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts                                          14,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                7,085
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York New York
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy       113,112
American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund, Washington, D.C.
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  29,000
American Electric Power Service Corporation, Columbus, Ohio
for the Donald C. Cook Chair in the School of Business Administration      5,000
American Heart Association Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                        12,000
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         6,250
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fellowship in the College of Engineering, and for
geological sciences support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  12,000
Anonymous Donor
for student funded fellowships in the Law School                           5,000
Anonymous Donor
for support of WFUM-TV                                                     5,000
Apple Computer, Inc., Cupertino California
for coignitive research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  10,000
Applied Publishing, Ltd., Wilmette, Illinois
for the Chester B. Slawson Memorial Fund in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                      10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                        11,667
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research m the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology    56,488
Mrs. Steele Bailey, Midland
for the Class of 1931 Award Fund in the College of Engineering             6,000
Beatrice Companies, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the
School of Business Administration                                          5,000
Boyd J. Blevins Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                    45,000
BOC Group Inc. Montvale, New Jersey
for thie Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration  20,000
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts           25,000
Brencanda Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                         38,400
Brookdale Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                              60,000
Margaret L. Brown Estate
for the George Granger Brown Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering  115,300
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                                370,000
Centocor, Inc., Malvern Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                        10,000
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  15,000
-33 -



September Meeting, 1988


Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and
in the Medical School                                                    16,666
Chrysler Corporation Fund Detroit
for support of The University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                           30,220
Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland Ohio
for research in the Schoof of Public Health                              79,366
Avern Cohn Orchard Lake
for the Irwin I. Cohn Research Fund in the Law School and for the Neil
Staebler Political Education Fund in the Institute of Public Policy Studies  105,500
Timothy W. and Sandra Collins, Birmingham
for the Asian Arts Project in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  5,000
Committee on Japanese Economic Studies, Ann Arbor
for economics research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  124,100
Conoco, Inc., Ponca City Oklahoma
for the Porous Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Sophia Conrad Trust
for support of the Medical School                                        42,792
Martha Cook Alumnae Association of Detroit, Lathrup Village;
for the Martha Cook Alumnae Memorial                                      5,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA., Inc., New York, New York
for pathology research in the Medical School                             17,500
Dennis Dahmann, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                             5,000
Marvin H. Davidson Foundation, Inc., Rye, New York
for the Marvin H. Davidson Fund in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts                                                     10,000
Diabetes Research and Education Foundation, Bridgewater, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                        9,847
Dow Chemical Company Foundation Midland
for support of the College of Engineering and pledge payment for the
chemical sciences facility in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  155,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program              5,000
Russell B. Duvall Trust
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School                          13,441
Dykema Gossett General Fund, Detroit
for support of the Institute of Continuing Legal Education in the Law School  8,000
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts           9,000
Earl-Beth Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for biological station support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  5,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester New York
for support ofthe College of Engineering                                 20,000
First Bank System Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program              5,000
Flint Area Health Foundation, Flint
for research at The University of Michigan-Flint                         17,442
Edsel and Eleanor Ford House, Grosse Pointe Shores
for research in the School of Natural Resources                           7,500
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts,
and in the Institute of Public Policy Studies                            41,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support of the School of Business Administration, and pledge payments
for the College of Engineering and The University o? Michigan-Dearborn  242,000
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for research in the Medical School                                       42,320
General Foods Corporation, White Plains, New York
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program              5,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Charles H. Gershenson Funds in the School of Music              206,304
J. Paul Getty Trust
for the J. Paul Getty Fellowship in the History of Art, College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                      28,000
Alice Jean Gibbons Estate
for the Dr. Paul Gibbons Scholarship in the School of Dentistry          15,000
Lawrence M. Goodspeed Trust, Farmington Hills
for support of the School of Business Administration                     17,200
-34 -



September Meeting, 1988


Gossett Fund, Troy
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    10,000
Graham Foundation for Advanced Studies in the Fine Arts, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Architecture and Urban Planning                 5,000
William T. Grant Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and in the School of
Social Work                                                                   36,358
GTE Service Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                    5,980
Halliburton Services Division of Halliburton Company, Duncan Oklahoma
for the Porus Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan Ann Arbor
for research in the Medica School                                              5,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for general surgery support in the Medical School                             75,000
Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley New Jersey
for pharmaceutics research in the College of Pharmacy                         25,000
Mr. and Mrs. Howard S. Holmes, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                                  8,000
Honeywell, Inc. Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration    20,000
Household Finance Corporation, Prospect Heights, Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                        5,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Coconut Grove, Florida
for support of the Medical School                                             23,000
International Heart of Variety, New York, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School             14,000
Japan Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for Japanese Studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  38,733
Japan National Oil Corporation, Tokyo, Japan
for the Porus Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Thomas S. Jerome Lectureship fund
for the Thomas S. Jerome Lecture and Publication Fund, Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies                                                            8,435
James T. Johnson. San Francisco, California
for unrestricted support o? the Law School                                     5,000
Johnson & Johnson Famlly of Companies Contribution Fund, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                    6,200
Barbara Piasecka Johnson Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts               5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                     64,662
Dr. and Mrs. Richard D. Judge, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                                  5,000
Max Kade Foundation, Inc. New York, New York
for the Max Kade Scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  18,000
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park California
for research in the School of Public Health                                  114,372
W. K. Kellogg Foundation Battle Creek
for research in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and for pilot
projects at the Center for Educational Improvement through Collaboration     282,382
Grace Kikuchi, Ann Arbor
for the Kikuchi Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering                 5,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care activities, The University of
Michigan Hospitals                                                            18,785
Koito Manufacturing Company, Limited, Japan
for human factors in transportation research, Institute of Science and Technology  15,000
Lazard Freres & Company, New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                        5,000
Leslie Fund, Inc., Northfield, Illinois
for the Leslie Professorship in the Medical School                            50,000
Richard U. Light, Kalamazoo
for the Michigan Historical Collections                                        5,000
Mallery Charitable Trust, Flint
for The University of Michigan-Flint, College of Arts and Sciences             8,000


-35 -



September Meeting, 1988


Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Alex Manoogian Chair and the Armenian Studies Program, College of
Literature Science, and the Arts                                             30,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
Mardigian Foundation, Southfield
for The University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program           100,000
Margoes Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the John A. Margoes Scholarship in the Medical School                     7,000
Lucille P. Markey Charitable Trust
pledge payment for research in the Medical School                          2,635,637
McGregor Fund, Detroit
pledge payment for support of the University Library                         62,500
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research                         17,465
McKinley Associates, Inc Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                                 5,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York N 
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            950,000
Midwest Waterblasting Corporation, Tecumseh
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                              15,000
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Porus Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  5,000
Frank C. Mock Estate
for the Frank C. Mock Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                          8,203
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
pledge payment for aerospace facilities in the College of Engineering         17,000
U. R. Moore state
Keystone Custodial Series fund; for unrestricted support of the Medical School  53,614
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway systems research in the Institute of Science and Technology       5,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                                 25,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research m the Medical School                                             7,500
Nelson Research & Development, Irvine California
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                              20,000
Northern Telecom, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program                  5,000
Charlotte W. O'Brien, Grosse Pointe Farms
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, in memory of
John Gray Garlinghouse and Burton A. Garlinghouse                             5,500
Virginia Oliphant Estate
pledge payment for aerospace facilities in the College of Engineering       500,000
Stella B. Osborn Trust
for the Stellanova and Chase S. Osborn Student Aid Fund in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, and for the Michigan Historical Collections            60,000
Mr. and Mrs. Stuart B. Padnos Holland
pledge payment for the Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professorship of Judaic
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                       125,000
Louis and Helen Padnos Foundation, Holland
for the Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professorship of Judaic Studies, College of
Literature Science, and the Arts                                            125,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for the Elsa U. Pardee Foundation Funds in the Medical School                54,211
Peat, Marwick Mitchell Foundation, Detroit
for the Peat Marwick, Mitchell Professorship in the School of Business Administration  25,000
Neva B. Pierpont Estate
for support of The University of Michigan Hospitals                         400,000
Porter Foundation, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for gifts pending designation                                 10,000
Eugene B. Power Trust, Ann Arbor
for support of The University Musical Society                                25,000
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Rackham Renaissance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies                                                          20,000
Helen A. Pratt, Longwood, Florida
cash gift as a donor pooled income contribution for the ultimate benefit of the Dean's
Merit Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts        50,000
-36 -



September Meeting, 1988


Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati Ohio
for support of the School of Dentistry                                       40,000
Research to Prevent Blindness, Inc., New York, New York
for ophthalmology research in the Medical School                             15,000
RJR Nabisco Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                       5,000
Thurza W. Salisbury Estate
for support of the Medical School, and the University of Michigan Hospitals  10,155
Charles H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
for the Charles H. and Katherine C. Sawyer Fellowship in the Museum of Art   14,866
Shearson, Lehman, Hutton, Inc., New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                       5,000
Siemens Medical Systems, Inc., Iselin, New Jersey
ledge payments for cardiology research in the Medical School                80,000
Ethel F. Slawson, Hinsdale Illinois
for the Chester B. Siawson Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                     10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             12,500
K. P. Sogoian, Southfield
for the K. P. and Emma Sogoian Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                      5,000
Sydney A. Spink, St. Augustine, Florida
for the Asian Arts Project in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,800
Barbara H. Stanton, New York, New York
in Memory of Sarah Goddard Power                                              5,000
Stone Charitable Foundation, Inc., Wareham, Massachusetts
for the Stephen and Sybil Stone Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                      5,000
Stephen and Sybil Stone Foundation, Wareham Massachusetts
for the Stephen and Sybil Stone Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                      5,000
Fern J. Thurston Estate
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School                              68,252
Touche Ross & Company, Detroit
pledge payments for the DME Dormitory and for the William A. Paton Scholarship
min the School of Business Administration                                    10,000
Union Carbide Corporation, Danbury, Connecticut
for the Union Carbide Funds I the College of Engineering                     10,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Education Foundation Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Center for Human Growth and bevelopment                  12,461
University of Michigan Club of Japan, Toyko
for Japanese Studies Fellowships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  6,000
University Microfilms International Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the School of Information and Library Studies, and for support
of the University Musical Society                                            25,100
Robert Vanderkloot, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payments for support of the Medical School                             9,000
Ronald N. Weisner, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                                 5,000
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                               5,000
James D. Wolfensohn Charitable Trust
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                       5,000
Xyrofm, Ltd., Switzerland
for biochemical research in the School of Dentistry                          37,539
Youth Foundation of America, Petoskey
for support of the Shady Trails Speech and Hearing Camp in the School of Education  16,000
Allied-Signal Foundation, Morristown, New Jersey
for support of the College of Engineering, the Schools of Business Administration,
Medicine, and Public Health, and the Institute of Science and Technology     63,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy           71,774
American Heart Association, Inc. Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                           90,448


-37 -



September Meeting, 1988


American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                           18,500
Asian Cultural Council, New York, New York
for the Asian Arts Project in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship                          27,758
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the D. Maynard Phelps Fund in the School of Business Administration      24,474
Margart Bell Cameron, Ann Arbor
for the Rackham Renaissance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies                                                                       5,000
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
Tor group dynamics research in the Institute for Social Research             70,000
Center forPostmarketing Surveillance, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           12,500
Calvin M. Chamberlain Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the Chamberlain Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 12,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           23,190
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
pledge payment for the instructional complex in the College of Engineering  250,000
Cincinnati Sportsmedicine Research & Education Foundation, Inc., Cincinnati Ohio
for the William S. Smith Orthopaedic Research Fund in the Medical School      5,000
Citibank, NA. New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance and for the Associates
Program, School of Business Administration                                   10,000
Cummins Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, Indiana
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program                  5,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           35,194
Data Processing Sciences Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Raoul Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies                                                           5,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           37,829
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Dover Fund, Inc., San Francisco, California
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration             5,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Mialand
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  12,101
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering              12,520
Roderick J. Finlayson, New York, New York
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration  5,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 127,093
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts  320,000
Maxine Forsyth Estate
two certificates of deposit and a State of North Carolina Clean Water Bond, for the
Noble 0. Moore Scholarship in the Law School and the Maxine Moore Forsyth
Scholarships in the Medical School                                           10,594
Genesis Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for the School of Business Administration, and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                  6,000
Alvin Glick Jackson
Northwestern Steel and Wire Company common stock, for scholarships in the
Department of Athletics                                                      29,025
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                  400,000
Gulf + Western Foundation, New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                       5,000


-38 -



September Meeting, 1988


Charles Hagler Estate
for support of the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane                            20,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           59,567
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation Menlo Park, California
matching grant endowment for the Improvement of Undergraduate Education      51,000
Hokkaido International Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Asian Languages Summer Program in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                  5,120
Honeywell Bull Inc Waltham, Massachusetts
for the Global Leadership Program in the School of Business Administration   20,000
International Business Machines Corporation, New Haven, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  38,708
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                       5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Dentistry                                      12,452
Pauline C. Jones Estate
for the Roger M. Jones Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering           50,000
John Harvey Kelgg, M.D. Estate
for the John Harvey Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School              15,000
James S. Kemper Foundation, Long Grove, Illinois
for gifts pending designation in the School of Business Administration       25,000
Kenny Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            6,252
Charles L. Kettler, Arlington, Virginia
for the Class of 1939 Fund m the College of Engineering                       5,000
Kraft Foundation Glenview, Illinois
for the D. Maynard Phelps Fund in the School of Business Administration      20,000
Eli Lilly & Company Indianapolis, Indiana
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                               5,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard Zell and Leonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the School
of Business Administration                                                   40,918
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the swimming and diving facility, and scholarship support in the
Department of Athletics                                                       7,000
Edward S. Mardigian, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
for The University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program             5,000
Martin Marietta Corporation Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,900
Agnes C. McKayEstate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research fund                     7,448
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and Smith, Inc. New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                       5,000
Michigan Eye-Bank & Transplantation Center, Ann Arbor
for the Michigan Eye-Bank Fund, The University of Michigan Hospitals         29,000
Michigan Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, Inc. Westland
for scholarships in the School of Nursing                                    12,000
Robert B. Mitchell Estate
for the Robert B. Mitchell Electron Microbeam Analysis Laboratory in the College
of Literature Science, and the Arts                                         500,000
Mobil Foundation, inc., New York New York
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology        5,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology       16,700
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation Flint
for the Wanda L. and M. Harry Piper Fund, The University of Michigan-Flint    5,000
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                        5,127
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for renal research in the Medical School                                     12,567
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                            8,788
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington, D.C.
for predoctoral fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                       10,852
H. MarvinPollard Living Trust, Kalamazoo
for the H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research Fund                              61,025
-39 -



September Meeting, 1988


Population Council, Inc., New York, New York
for population planning and international health research in the School of Public
Health                                                                       40,000
Reader's Digest Foundation, Inc., Pleasantville, New York
for the Reader's Digest Excellence in Journalism Scholarship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            12,500
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Trust, Burlington Massachusetts
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship in the Medical School          10,528
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           10,000
Mary C. Saxe Estate
for research in the Medical School                                          250,000
Adrian W. Schmidhauser, Waco, Texas
USG Corporation common stock; an additional donor pooled income contribution
for the ultimate benefit of The University of Michigan                        8,775
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                       14,262
William J. Sheridan Estate
for unrestricted support of the Medical School                               15,800
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for pathology research in the Medical School                                 19,932
Spring Into Summer Ann Arbor
for support of the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital                            17,000
Squibb Corporation. Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      10,000
Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
for the Helmut Stern Fund in the Museum of Art, and for the Neil Staebler Political
Education Fund in the Institute of Public Policy Studies                     32,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, The University of Michigan-Flint                9,498
Robert A. Sullivan Estate
for the Robert A. Sullivan Professorship in the Law School                   50,000
Supreme Council 33rd Degree, AA.S.R. Benevolent Foundation of the Northern Masonic
Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts
for the Scottish Rites Research Funds in the Medical School                   6,181
Texaco Inc., Houston Texas
for the Porus Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for support of the Center for the Continuing Education of Women              25,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for fellowships in the College of Engineering                                25,000
United Cerebral Palsy Research & Educational Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           21,668
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Alumni Association                                    9,217
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
tor the International Faculty Development Fund in the School of Business
Administration                                                               15,000
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
pledge payment for the Jack D. Sparks-Whirlpool Corporation Research
Professorship in the School of Business Adminhistration                     100,000
Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., Ann Arbor
for gifts pending designation in the School of Business Administration        5,000
Whitaker Foundation, Camp Hill Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School                                           52,300
Samuel Zell Foundation Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard Zell andLeonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the School
of Business Administration                                                   40,918
Allied-Signal Corporation, Morristown, New Jersey
for biophysics research in the Institute of Science and Technology            5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and in the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                  94,182
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Michigan Affiliate) Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                    15,250
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           11,833
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, and in the Division of Physical Education  105,130
-40 -



September Meeting, 1988


American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            8,750
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  12,310
AMP, Inc., Harrisburg, Pennsylvama
for trauma disorders research in the College of Engineering                  50,000
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                       35,800
Everett E. Berg, Oakland;, California
pledge payment for the Everett E. Berg Professorship in the School of Business
Adminstration                                                               200,000
Beukema Family Trust, Rancho Palos Verdes, California
for support of the School of Dentistry                                       12,625
Les and Anne Biederman Foundation, Inc., Traverse City
pledge payments for support of the College of Engineering, the Medical School,
and for the new University of Michigan Hospital                              20,000
Guido A. Binda, Battle Creek
pledge payment for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Fund in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning                                               5,000
Bison Books Corporation Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Robert H. Bockman/John Whitney Hall Fellowship, and the Preston W.
Slosson Prize Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts      13,000
Boyd J. Blevins Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                       30,000
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
for the Boeing Scholarships and Fellowships in the College of Engineering    11,000
Chevron Oil Field Research Company, La Habra, California
for the Porus Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, the CAD/CAM Laboratory at The
University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for Employee Matching Gifts             36,030
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA. Inc., New York, New York
for pathology research in the Medical School                                 17,500
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           18,750
Charles A. Dana Foundation, New York, New York
for geriatric medicine research in the Medical School                       166,400
Deloitte Haskins & Sells Foundation New York, New York
pledge payments for the School of Business Administration                     40,000
Mrs. Grant A. Dibert, Jamestown, New York
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration, in memory of
Clyne Crawford                                                                5,000
Dover Fund, Inc., San Francisco, California
for gifts pending designation in the School of BusinessAdministration        25,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Freeport, Texas
for support of the College of Engineering                                    20,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland 
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,171
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support of the Michigan Historical Collections                            9,500
FMC Corporation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research support in the College of Engineering                           15,000
Clinton B. Ford Wilton, Connecticut
for the Clinton B. Ford Astronomy Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                     10,000
Ford Motor Company Fund Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering                                    22,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering                                    5,000
Maxine Forsyth Estate
cash and a United States Savings Bond, for the Noble 0. Moore Scholarship in the
Law School and the Maxine Moore Forsyth Scholarships in the Medical Schiool  89,898
General Electric Company, Lighting Business Group, Cleveland, Ohio
for human factors research in the Institute of Science and Technology        15,000
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for fellowships, scholarships, and other support in the College of Engineering  73,780
Helen Germain Estate
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                       50,000
Gibbs Brothers Foundation, New York, New York
for naval architecture scholarships in the College of Engineering             7,500
-41 -



September Meeting, 1988


Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
for the football facility m the Department of Athletics                       30,000
International Business Machines Corporation, New Haven, Connecticut
for support of the School of Business Administration                           5,000
Journal of Language Learning, Ann Arbor
for the Visiting Assistant Professorship of Linguistics Fund, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                         50,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            32,250
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for science education training in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for geriatric education training in the Medical School                   418,961
Noboru Kikucm, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Engineering                                     10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Tecumseh
for the Forney W. Clement Memorial for patient care activities, The University of
Michigan Hospitals                                                             9,393
KPMG Peat, Marwick Chicago Illinois
for Employee Matchin Gifts                                                    10,695
Kraft Foundation, Glenview Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                       5,740
Richard P. Kughn, Dearborn
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                   100,000
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            31,372
Eli Lilly & Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program                   5,000
Lilly Endowment Inc., Indianapolis Indiana
for the Lilly Endowment Fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                35,000
Oscar A. Lundin, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for support of the Medical School                               5,000
Frederika Marston Trust
for unrestricted support of The University of Michigan                         6,720
Thomas B. McDonald, Skaneateles, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School             60,000
C. Blake McDowell, Jr. Akron, Ohio
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                      8,000
McGraw Foundation, Wheeling, Illinois
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program                   7,500
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                      7,920
Zelpha E. McKinnon Trust, Flint
pledge payment for the Leonard A. and Zelpha E. McKinnon Plaza, The University
of Micfigan-Flint                                                            100,000
Mobil Research and Development Corporation, Dallas, Texas
for the Porus Media industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  10,000
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                            37,377
Norwich Eaton Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Norwich, New York
for support of the Medical School                                              5,000
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for Classical Studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  30,250
Parker-Hannifmi Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for unrestricted support of the Law School, and for Employee Matching Gifts   10,500
Pittsfield Products, Inc. Ann Arbor
for the School of Music Building Fund                                         10,000
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation Chicago, Illinois
for support of the Medical School                                              5,000
Zella Carr Poorman Trust, West Layfayette, Indiana
for the William F. Poorman Mathematics Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                  26,532
Procter & Gamble Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Procter & Gamble Fellowship in the College of Engineering             22,400
Quaker Oats Company, Chicago, Illinois
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                        5,000
Robert B. Richardson, Helena, Montana
for the Actuarial Science Program in the School of Business Administration     5,000


-42 -



September Meeting, 1988


Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  99,700
Santa Fe Southern Pacific Foundation Chicago, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000
Shell Development Company) Houston Texas
for chemistry support m the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts     25,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  6,633
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  27,000
Audra Cook Smith, Lorain Ohio
for the President's Fund                                                     10,000
SPX Foundation Muskegon
for special exhibitions in the Museum of Art and for Employee Matching Gifts  5,050
William and Martha Steen, Belvedere-Tiburon, California
Fort Howard Paper Company common stock; for special exhibitions in the Museum
of Art                                                                        5,419
Sterling-Winthrop Research Institute Rensselaer, New York
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      12,500
Darle L. Tobel Novi
for the Charles I. Tobel Memorial Fund in the Medical School                  5,000
Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the President's Fund                                                     28,114
Joy G. Ungerleider-Mayerson Philanthropic Fund, Larchmont, New York
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                     25,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the Unisys Curriculum Project in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      54,320
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor
for the football facility, and for scholarships in the Department of Athletics  5,000
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Jackson
for alumnae scholarships in the Alumni Association                            6,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
pledge payments for the Chemical Sciences Facility in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Upjohn Endowments in the Medical School and
the College of Pharmacy, and for Employee Matching Gifts                    402,750
Vlasic Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for support of the College of Engineering                     20,000
Mrs. Jerome W.Weinberger, Cleveland, Ohio
pledge payment for the Joy Whitman Weinberger Scholarship in the School of Music  5,000
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
pledge payment for the Minority Engineering Program in the College of Engineering,
and tor Employee MatchingGifts                                               24,095
Mr. and Mrs. Frank T. Westover, Lake Forest, Illinois
pledge payment for the Doris B. and Frank 0. Westover Scholarship in the School
of Business Administration                                                    5,000
World Society Foundation, Zurich Switzerland
for political science research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,229
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Mountain View, California
a desktop monochrome computer workstation with accessories; for the Department of
Mathematics
Paul W. Wang, Richland
a Chinese hanging scroll by Jen Po-nien, "Scholar with Two Chickens"; for the Museum of Art
Ramon Hill, Flint
a bronze and quartz sculpture; for The University of Michigan-Flint, Resource and Community
Science Department
International Centre for Diffraction Data, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania
a Risaku data base disk set with indices and manuals; for the Department of Materials Science
and Engineering
Zenith Electronics Corporation, Glenview, Illinois
a Zenith 386 Computer and accessories; for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate
Finance


-43 -



September Meeting, 1988


John Fluke Manufacturing Company, Inc., Everett, Washington
laboratory instruments including an analog digital multimeter; for the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science
Laurence Goldstein, Ann Arbor
an untitled E. E. Cummings painting (1950); for the Museum of Art
Personnel Actions
Vice President Holbrook noted the appointments of Associate Vice President
Mary Ann Swain as Interim Director of Affirmative Action and Professor John H.
Jackson as Associate Professor for Academic Affairs with responsibility for
international affairs. He also noted that a national search is underway for a
permanent dean of the Dental School. On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by
Regent Smith, the Regents approved the following Personnel Actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Jeffrey A. Alexander, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy
Sheldon H. Danziger, Ph.D., Professor of Social Work and Public Policy
Jean Goeppinger,Ph.D., Professor of Nursing, January 1, 1989
Martin L. Maehr Ph.D., Professor of Education also appointed Professor of Psychology, without tenure
Luke Y. Tsai, M.b., Associate Professor of Psychiatry, September 19, 1988
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1988
Shaya Y. Fainman, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering
Natarajan Narasimhamurthi, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
UM-Dearborn
William J. Quails, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Marketing, School of Business
Administration, also appointed Associate Professor of Sports Management and Communication,
Division of Ph sical Education
Janis Valdmanis, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Charles B. Vergon, from Associate Research Scientist to Associate Professor of Education
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Herbert C. Barrows, Jr., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to teach in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts? Winter term, 1989
Frank William Comstock, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, reappointed to teach in the Department of
Restorative Dentistry, for a one-year period
James Crump, Professor Emeritus of Chinese Language and Literature, reappointed to teach in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Winter term, 1989
Horace Dewey, Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures, reappointed to teach in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Winter term, 1989
David G. Dickinson Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, reappointed to active
status at the Brighton Health Center, for a one-year period
Dee W. Edington, Director of the Division of Physical Education and Professor of Physical Education,
reappointed Director of the Division of Physical Education, for a five-year period, July 1, 1988
John R. G. Gosling, Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, reappointed to active
status in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, for a one-year period
Rodney J. Grambeau, Professor Emeritus of Sports Management and Communication, reappointed to
teach in the Division of Physical Education, Fall term, 1988
John W. Hagen, Director of the Center for Human Growth and Development and Professor of
Psychology, reappointed Director of the Center for Human Growth and Development, for a
four-year period
Willard J. Hendrickson, Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, reappointed to active status in the Psychiatry
Adult Outpatient Program, for a one-year period
Samuel P. HicksTProfessor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to active status in the Department of
Pathology, for a one-year period
-44 -



September Meeting, 1988


Frederick W. Kahler, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, reappointed to active status in the Department
of Restorative Dentistry, for a one-year period, January, 1989
Robert Libby, Peat Martwick Main & Co. Professor of Professional Accounting and Professor of
Accounting, reappointed Peat Martwick Main & Co. Professor of Professional Accounting, for a
five-year eriod
James V. Neel, Professor Emeritus of Human Genetics and Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine,
reappointed to active status in the Department of Human Genetics, for a one-year period, July 1,
1988
Willis C. Patterson, Associate Dean for the School of Music and Professor of Music, with tenure,
reappointed Associate Dean for the School of Music, for a three-year term, July 1, 1988
Thomas D. Rowe, Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Pharmacy, reappointed to active status
David F. Striffler Professor Emeritus of Dental Public Health, reappointed to teach in the Program in
Dental Public Health, Fall term, 1988 and Winter term, 1989
Joseph E. VaughnJr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Education reappointed to teach in the
Division of Physical Education, Fall term, 1988 and Winter term, 1989
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988 unless otherwise indicated
Bruce M. Carlson, Professor of Biology, with tenure, and Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with
tenure appointed Chair of the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology
Robert S. Holbrook, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, appointe Interim Vice President
for Academic Affairs, for a four-month period
John E. Jackson, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Research Scientist in the Institute for
Social Research, appointed Acting Director of the Center for Political Studies, for an eight-month
period, January 1 1989
John H. Jackson, Hessef E. Yntema Professor of Law, with tenure, appointed Associate Vice President
for Academic Affairs, for a one-year period
M. Kent Jennings, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, and Research Scientist in the Institute for
Social Research, appointed Acting Director of the Center for Political Studies, for a four-month
period
Lawrence Radine Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, appointed Acting Associate Dean of the
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies, UM-Dearborn, for a four-month period
David K. Rea, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, appointed Interim Director of the Great
Lakes and Marine Waters Center for a one-year period
Mary Ann P. Swain, Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs, appointed Interim Director of
Affirmative Action
Richard G. Teske, Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, and Interim Director of the McGraw-Hill
Observatory, appointed Director of the McGraw-Hill Observatory, for a two-year period, June 1,
1988
Michael J. Welsh, Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, appointed Associate
Professor of Anesthesiology, without tenure
The following committee appointments were approved:
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Richard P. Bagozzi, for a one-year term, September 1, 1988 through June 30, 1989, vice Roger L. Wright,
resigned
Medical School Executive Committee
Bruce M. Carlson, for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991, vice Alphonse R.
Burdi, term expired
Robert P. Kelch, for a three-year term, September 1, 1988 through August 31, 1991, vice Julian T. Hoff,
term expired
School of Natural Resources Executive Committee
Burton V. Barnes, for a two-year term, September 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice Alvin L. Jensen,
term expired
Terry J. Brown, for a one-year term, September 1, 1988 through June 30, 1989, vice Jonathan W. Bulkley,
resigned
William B. Stapp, for a two-year term, September 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice Rachel Kaplan,
term expired
Division of Physical Education Executive Committee
Victor L. Katch, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice Guy G. Reiff term expired
Joyce I. Lindeman, for a two-year term, July 1, 1988 through June 30, 1990, vice Phyllis S. WVeikart, term
expired
-45 -



September Meeting, 1988


Leaves of Absence. The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence for
Assistant Professor Dennis E. Ross and T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant
Professor of Mathematics Paul Ringseth.
Price Waterhouse Auditing Visiting Professor of Accounting. William Frank
Wright was appointed the Price Waterhouse Auditing Visiting Professor of
Accounting for the period September 1, 1988 to April 30, 1989.
Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law (Endowed Named Professorship). The
Regents appointed Edward H. Cooper as the Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law, for
a five-year term, effective September 1, 1988.
Earl Warren DeLano Professor of Law (Endowed Named Professorship). The
Regents appointed James E. Krier as the Earl Warren DeLano Professor of Law, for a
five-year term, effective September 1, 1988.
Thomas E. Sunderland Fellow and Visiting Professor of Law. Roger G. Noll
was appointed the Thomas E. Sunderland Fellow and Visiting Professor of Law for
the Fall Term, 1988.
James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-In-Residence. Simon Blackburn was
appointed the James B. and Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence for the period
of September 12 through 16, 1988. Barry Stroud was appointed the James B. and
Grace J. Nelson Philosopher-in-Residence for the period of November 7 through 11,
1988.
Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professorship in Judaic Studies. The Regents
approved the establishment of the Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professorship in
Judaic Studies.
Howard Y. McClusky Professorship. The Regents approved a change in the
name of the William Clark Trow Professorship to the Howard Y. McClusky
Professorship and appointed William M. Cave to that professorship.
Chair, Air Force Officer Education Program. Peter J. Buley was appointed
Chair of the Air Force Officer Education Program, for a three-year term, effective
August 15, 1988.
Chair, Army Officer Education Program. William J. Gregor was appointed
Chair of the Army Officer Education Program, for a three-year-term, effective August
15, 1988.
Personnel Reports
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:


-46 -



September Meeting, 1988


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Steven M. Archer, M.D., Ophthalmology, July 1, 1988
John C. Bell, M.FA., Theatre, UM-Flint
William P. Birmingham Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Jerry O. Blackstone, D.MA. Conducting
Barry E. Bleske, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, August 1, 1988
Thomas G. Brady, Ph.D., Mathematics
Joan K. Brieland, D.V.M., Laboratory Animal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Kathleen M. Canning, Ph.D., History
Linda M. Chatters, Ph.D., Health Behavior and Health Education
Taylor Cox, Jr., Organizational Behavior and Human Resource Management
Gary R. Decker, MA. Theatre and Drama
Margaret E. Dewar, Ph.D., Architecture and Urban Planning
Kevn M. Donahue M.FA., Art
Laura L. Downs, Ph.D., History, July 1 1988
Edmund H. Durfee Ph.D., Electrical ngineering and Computer Science
Susan G. Elner, M.D., Ophthalmology, July 1, 1988
Marva J. Furman, Ph.D., Toxicology
William D.K. Green, MA., Mathematics
Michael C. Gurnis, Ph.D., Geological Sciences
Craig Harris, Ph.D., Toxicology
Janet C. Hart, BA., Sociology and Women's Studies, also Adjunct Assistant Professor of Political
Science
Thomas S. Hartman BA. Architecture and Urban Planning
Kim F. Hayes, Ph.D., Civil Engineering
Kim R. Hill Ph.D., Anthropology
R. Thomas Hille, MA., Architecture and Urban Planning
John W. Holmes, Ph.D  Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Rombout Hoogerbetts, Ph.D., Physics
Paul K. Huth, Ph.D., Political Science
Ralph H. Insmger, MA.U.D., Art
Douglas M. Jewitt, Ph.D Internal Medicine July 1, 1988
Charles W. Johnson, Ph.D., Economics, UM-Flint
Carol Korzeniewski, Ph.D. Chemistry
Jeffrey E. Kottemann, Ph.., Computer and Information Systems
Duncan J. Kretovich Ph.D., Finance, UM-Flint
Yasuo Kuga, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Timothy J. Laing, Ph.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Theresa M. Lee, Ph.D., Psychology
John S. Mainnis, Ph.D., T.H. Hilbrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics
William J. MlcGinley M.Ed., Education
Alan M. Mellow, M.., Psychiatry, August 1, 1988
Susan E. Moeller, Ph.D., Finance, UM-Flint
Debra F. Neff, Ph.D. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 15, 1988
Peter A. Nielson, Ph.b., Mathematics
James C. Noel Ph.D., Accounting
Lynda J. Oswald, J.D., Business Law
Andrea L. Press, Ph.D., Communication
Douglas J. Quint, M.D., Radiology, August 1, 1988
Jawald W. Rasul, Ph.D., Physics
David L. Rolston, MA., Chinese Language and Literature
John K. Sauter, Ph.D  Mathematics
Audrey F. Seasholtz, Ph.D., Biological Chemistry
Colleen M. Seifert, Ph.D., Psychology
Michael W. Shaw, Ph.D., Epidemiology
Mehrdad Simkani Ph.D. Mathematics, UM-Flint
David B. Solnit, Ph.D. Thai Language and Literature
Patricia K. Smith, Ph.D., Economics, UM-Dearborn
Athanasios Speis Ph.D., Mathematics
John R. Stembridge, Ph.D., Mathematics
Robert J. Taylor, Ph.D., Social Work
Brian J. Thelen, Ph.D  Statistics
Thelma K. Thomas, MA., History of Art, also Assistant Curator of Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Bruce R. Troen, M.D Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Lawrence A. Turka, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Timothy Vogel, Ph.D., Civil Engineering
-47 -



September Meeting, 1988


Athena Vrettos, Ph.D., Engish Language and Literature
Kathleen A. Weiss, Ph.D. Finance
Bernard Y. Yeung, Ph.D., International Business
Jin-Whan Yim, Ph.D., Mathematics
Instructor
Roger L. Albin, M.D. Neurology, July 1, 1988
Leslie B. Aldrich, M.D. Interna Medicine, July 1, 1988
John M. Andreoni, M.6., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Larry E. Antonuk, Ph.D., Radiation Oncology, July 1 1988
Wadie F. Bahou, MD. Internal Medicine, ily 1, 1988
Tersese M. Collins, M.., Internal Medicine, July 11988
Volker F. Gaul, M.S., Air Force Officer Education Pro-gam, July 31, 1988
Margaret R. Gyetko, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
John M. Ham, M.D., Surgery, August 1, 1988
Rodney A. Hayward, MD. Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
David M. Jackson, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, July 1, 1988
Janet L. Kuhn, Ph.D., Surgery, July 1, 1988
Michael W. Naylor, M.D., Psychiatry, July 1, 1988
Robert Paine, HI, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1 1988
Stephen Papadopoulos, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1988
Connie J. Standford, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Amy S. Tezza, M.D Internal Medicine, July 1 1988
Roy E. Twyman, M., Neurology, July 1'1988
Barbara L. Weber, M.D., Internal Medicme, August 1, 1988
Martha M. Wright, M.D., Ophthalmology, July 1,1988
Lecturer
James R. Ames B.S., Chemistry, UM-Flint
Eugene W. Anderson, M.BA., Marketing
Lillan L. Back, Ph.D., English Language and Literature
Eric R. Bakus, D.D.S., Dentistry
William D. Baxter Jr D.D.S., Surgery, August 1, 1988
Douglas A. Behrend, Ph.D. Psychology
Richard L. Bowden, M.I.L.S. Management, UM-Dearborn
Brad K. Brady, M.S Physical Education, August 8, 1988
Alvenice B. Brown, id.D., English Language and Literature
James R. Carlopio, MA., Psychology
Kathleen H. Caron, M.D., Radiology, July 1, 1988
Anthony Chapekis, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1 1988
Anthony P. Coral, M.B.B.S., Radiology, July 1,198
Alayne S. Evans,.D.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1988
John M. Faust Jr. M.D., Radiology, July 1, 1988
James T. Friedland, M.D., Radiology
Ira Gantz, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1988
Elizabeth A. Garofalo, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1988
Michael Gebler, Ph.D., Chemistry, UM-Flint
Frederick J. Gentler, J.D. Management UM-Dearborn
Sharon A. Grimes, M.S. Management, UM-Dearborn
Gregory E. Guy, M.D. kadiology, Jul 1, 1988
SandraL. Hanson, D.1S.S Dentistry, July 1, 1988
Kamel M. Itani M.D., Ohthalmology, Jul 7, 1988
Safwan S. Jaradeh, M.D., Neurology, July 1 1988
Timothy M. Johnson, M.D., Dermatology July 1, 1988
Nathan H. Kander, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Naomi M. Kane, M.D., Radiology, July 1 1988
John H. Kelsey, D.D.S. Dentistry, July 18, 1988
James W. Kern, M.D., Psychology
James W. Kiyak, M.S., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Peter R. Kollros, Ph.D. Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 12, 1988
Daniel A. Kruse, D.D.S. Dentistry, July 1, 1988
Kimberlyn Leary A.B., Psychology
Linda M. Lee, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Shin-Yun Lee, Ph.D  Psychology
David M. Lee B. S., Political Science, UM-Dearborn
Roxanne J. Lilly, D.D.S., Dentistry, July 1 1988
Monica M. Martin, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1988
Kathleen M. Mayo, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1988
Timothy E. McKenna, M.S., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Fernando L. Medina, M.D., Anesthesiology, July 1, 1988
-48 -



September Meeting, 1988


Michael G. Milne, Ph.D., Romance Languages and Literatures
William G. Mitchell, B.BA., Corporate Strategy
Marcial E. Ocasio-Melendez, MA., History, Flint
Christine G. Papajohn, MA., Corporate Strategy
Bruce A. Pietrykowski, MA., Economics, UM-Dearborn
Henry R. Povolny, M.S. Physics, UM-Dearborn
Hanna M. Reincke, M.D., Neurology, July 1, 1988
R. Kevin Reynolds, M.D., Obstetrics and Gynecology, July 1, 1988
Jussi J. Saukkonen M.D., Internal Medicine and Surgery, July 1, 1988
Steven Silverman, MD. Anesthesiology, Jul 1, 1988
Andrew M. Silverstein, M.D. Radiology, July 1, 1988
Patrick J. Slattery, A.B English Language and Literature
James F. Smick M.D., kadiology, July 1, 1988
Robert G. Smith, M.D. Ophthalmology, July 7 1988
Patricia A. Soeters, D.J.S., Dentistry, July 1, 188
Elizabeth A. Stevens, MA. Business Administration
Anahid-Hasmig Tashjian, (. Phil., Armenian Language and Literature, July 1, 1988
Pamela E. Taucher, M.S. Nursing
Robert E. Thomas, J.D., Business Economics
Thelma K. Thomas, MA., History of Art, also Assistant Curator of the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Erwin P. Tschirner, Ph.D., Germanic Languages and Literatures
Susan Urba M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1 1988
Betty A. Velthouse, M.BA., Management, UM-Flint
David M. Ward, Ph.D Italian
Richard L. Watnick, M.D., Ophthalmology, July 1, 1988
Merla Wolk, Ph.D., English Language and Literature
Enid J. Zimmerman, MA., Comprehensive Studies Program
Visiting Professor
Dwight F. Buringame, Ph.D., Information and Library Studies, July 1, 1988
Chack K. Chan, Ph.D., Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn, June 1, 1988
Robert D'Alimonte, Ph.D Italian Political Science, July 1 1988
Andryej Ehrenfeucht, Ph.D. Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, May 1, 1988
Clifford L. Leaman, A.Mus.., Music, July 1, 1988
Menachem Mautner J.D., Law
Renata W. Siemienska-Zochowska, Ph.D., Political Science, July 1, 1988
Visitin Associate Professor
Ted Anderson, Ph.D., Biological Station, July 1, 1988
Lawrence W. Barsalou, Ph.D., Psychology
Ole A. Eklof Ph.D. Radiology, July 1, 1988
Joshua I. Gilbert, Pi.D., Physiology, July 1, 1988
George E. Griffin, Ph.D., InternalMedicine, July 1, 1988
John F. Lussenhop, Ph.D., Biology, July 1 1988
Thomas L. Riis Ph.D. Music, July 1, 1988
Nilakantan Sankaran, Ph.D., Mathematics, July 1, 1988
Visitine Assistant Professor
Paul Albanese, Ph.D.,Marketing
Mahmoud Al-Batal, Ph.D., Near Eastern Studies, July 1, 1988
Piotr Blass, Ph.D., Mathematics, July 1, 1988
George M. Briggs Ph.D., Biology, June 15, 1988
Yung-Ho Chang, MArch., Architecture
John B. HunterIII Ph.D., History of Art
Patricia A. McCaffrey, M.M., Music
David J. Moore, Ph.D., Marketing
Ann K. Sakai, Ph.D., Biology, July 1, 1988
Visitin Instructor
John E. Ware, M.M., Music
Visiting Lecturer
Mashey M. Bernstein, Ph.D., English Language and Literature, July 1, 1988
Prasatnee Jantorn M.D., Anesthesiology,July 1 1988
David B. Jones, MA., History of Art, July 1, 1988


-49 -



September Meeting, 1988


Adiunct Professor
Helen Abbey, M.D. Epidemiology, July 10, 1988
John R. Boring III, PhD. Epidemiology, July 10, 1988
Phillip D. Brachman, M.., Epidemioloy, July 10 1988
Evelyn J. Bromet, Ph.D., Epidemiology,July 17, 1988
Alfred S. Evans M.P.H. Epidemiology, July 10, 1988
Robert M. Gladstone, Music July 1, 1988
Walter J. Hierholzer, Jr. M.., Epidemiology, July 10, 1988
Michael A. Ibrahim M.D. Epidemiology, Jly 10, 1988
Jennifer L. Kelsey, Ph.D., Epldemiology July 10 1988
Jess F. Krause, Ph.D., Epidemiology, Jufy 10, 1988
Louis W. Petro, Ph.D., Accounting
Robert B. Wallace M.SC. Epidemiology, July 10, 1988
Harry S. Wieand, Ph.D., Epidemiology,July 23, 1988
Adjunct Associate Professor
Harvey Checkoway, Ph.D., Epidemiology, July 10 1988
Raymond S. Greenberg, Ph.D. Epidemiology, July 10, 1988
Charles H. Hennekens Dr.P.H., Epidemiology, Jul 10, 1988
Theodore R. Holford, Ph.D., Epidemiology July 10, 1988
Robert M. McAllister, Ph.D., Chemistry, UM-Flint, July 1, 1988
Stanley H. Shapiro, Ph.D., Epidemiology, July 16, 1988
Adiunct Assistant Professor
Charles W. Borgsdorf, J.., Business Law
Julie E. Buring,Ph.D  Epidemiology, July 10, 1988
William P. Durance, Ph.D. HealthServices Management and Policy
Mark W. Plant, Ph.D., Business Economics
W. Douglas Thompson, Ph.D., Epidemiology, July 10, 1988
Adjunct Lecturer
James D. Ananich, MA. English UM-Flint July 1, 1988
Jerome B. Blum, LL.B., Political Science, UM-Flint, July 1, 1988
Morell D. Boone, Ph.D., Information and Library Studies, July 1, 1988
Ruth E. Gorham, Ph.D., English Language and Literature, July 1, 1988
Katherine F. Green, MA. Communication
Maurita Holland, A.M.L.S., Information and Library Studies, July 1, 1988
Richard P. Jasper, M.LN., Communication, July 1, 1988
Mark D. Koch, Ph.D. English Language and Literature, August 1, 1988
Joan H. Lowenstein JD. Communication
Norman F. Mass, M.S.L.S., Information and Library Studies, July 1, 1988
Ann M. McLean, M.S., Mathematics and Statistics, July 1 1988
Stephen D. Palmer MA., Education, UM-Flint, July 1, 1988
Guy S. Parcell, Ph.b., Epidemiology, July 24 1988
Hugo Pinti, Education UM-Flint, uly 1, 1988
Timothy G. Reardon M.S. Health Services Management and Policy
Leon S. Robertson, Ph.D., Epidemiology, July 10 1988
Dikran Toumajan, MA. Slavic Languages and Literatures
Richard J. Waxweiler, Ph.D., Epidemiology, July 10 1988
Michele J. Zimmerman, M.S.W., Psychology, UM-Flint, July 1, 1988
Clinical Assistant Professor II
Douglas J. Gelb, M.D Neurology, July 15, 1988
Rudolph R. Roskos, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1988
Clinical Assistant Professor I
Eugene Y. Su, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Clinical Instructor II
Cynthia M. Caron M.D Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Sharon H. Smith, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1988
Clinical Instructor I
Patricia Fuhst-Wyle D.D.S. Dentistry, August 15, 1988
Brian J. Kennedy, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1988
S. George Kipa,M.D., Internal Medicine July 1, 1988
James 1. Sheehy, M.D. Surgery, July 1, 188
Byron K. Wolffmg, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988


-50 -



September Meeting, 1988


PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
James N. Bodurtha, Jr., from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Finance and
International Business
Dean Crawford, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Accounting
Eve L. Feldman, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Neurology, July 1, 1988
Mark A. Helvie, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiology August 1, 1988
Joel D. Howell, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Health Services Management and Policy,
also appointed Assistant Professor of History
Ann M. Klautsch, from Visiting Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Theatre and Drama
Jimmie L. Reeves, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Communication
Dean G. Smith, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Health Services Management and Policy
Paul E. Sweeney, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Operations Management
Joseph E. Swierzbinski, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Natural Resources
and Economics
Christine M. Waters, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of Art, UM-Flint
James M. Wilson, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Instructor
Joseph M. Messana, from Lecturer to Instructor in Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
GailT. Randel, from Lecturer to Instructor in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1988
Paul I. Reynolds, from Lecturer to Instructor in Anesthesiology, July 1, 1988
Lecturer
Joan T. Bush, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer in Composition, UM-Dearborn
Carolyn Campbell, from Visiting Instructor to Lecturer in Anthropology, UM-Flint
Denise Charron-Prochownik, from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Colleen M. Corte, from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Sonia A. Duffy, from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Cynthia L. Fenske, from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Mary C. Friedl, from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Connie K. Kerr, from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Nancy L. Kostin, from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Kathleen B. Long, from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Larry D. Olsen, from Lecturer in Neurology to Lecturer in Neurology and Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, July 1 1988
Mary L. Parker, from instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Douglas A. Read, from Adjunct Lecturer to Lecturer in Dentistry
Marcia T. Van Fossen from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
M. Patricia Woodward, from Instructor to Lecturer in Nursing
Clinical Assistant Professor I
Amy J. Keenum, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor I of Pharmacy, July 1, 1988
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Sabbatical
T. Alexander Aleinikoff, Professor of Law, for a three-month period
Peter H. Amann, Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a eight-month period
Richard H. Axsom, Professor of Art History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a three-month period
Ruth M. Barnard, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, for a twelve-month period
David C. Blair, Associate Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, for a
three-month period
Wesley M. Brown, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, also Associate Curator of the Museum of
Zoology, for a nine-month period
Julius S. Cohen, Professor of Education, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Leverne S. Collet, Professor of Education, with tenure, for a three-month period
Paul N. Courant, Professor of Economics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Elizabeth M. Douvan, Catharine Neafie Kellogg Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, with
tenure, for a three-month period
William D. Drake, Professor of Resource Planning and Conservation, with tenure, for a threemonth period
Cecil D. Eby, Professor of English Language, with tenure, for a nine-month period
William R. Farrand, Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, also Curator of the Museum of
Anthropology, for a three-month period
-51 -



September Meeting, 1988


Jason L. Finkle, Professor of Population Planning, with tenure, for a three-month period
Frederick W. Gehring, T.H. Hildebrandt Distinguished University Professor of Mathematics, with
tenure, for a mne-month period
James J. Gindin, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a three-month period
James E. Gruber, Associate Dean Interdisciplinary Studies and Associate Professor of Sociology, with
tenure UM-Dearborn, for a three-month period
Yuri Gurevich, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Michino P. Hagiwara, Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure for a
three-month period
John P. Hayes, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, for a threemonth period
Julian T. Hoff, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, cancellation of leave previously reported from July 1
to October 31,1988
Aneel G. Karnani, Associate Professor of Corporate Strategy and International Business, without tenure,
for a nine-month period
Raymond C. Kelly, Professor of Anthropology with tenure, for a three-month period
Deborah Keller-Cohen, Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Stanley J. Kon, Professor of Finance, with tenure, for a three-month period
Henry S. Kowalewski, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, for a three-month period
John R. Knott, Jr., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a three-month period
Kerry A. Larson, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a three-month
period
William F. Maloney, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure for a three-month period
Carolyn F. Mawby, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a nine-month period
Claude R. Martin, Jr., Isadore and Leon Winkelman Professor of Retail Marketing, with tenure, for a
three-month period
Jack E. McLaughlin, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Philip A. Meyers Professor of Geological Science, with tenure for a three-month period
James S. Milne. Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Alfredo Montalvo, Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, for a three-month period
Katta G. Murty, Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Arunajallam Nadasen, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a eight-month
period
Vincent C. O'Keeffe, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a three-month period
Leslie A. Olsen, Associate Professor of Humanities, with tenure, for a three-month period
Joseph N. Payne, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Consuela M. Provost, Professor of English and Theatre, with tenure, UM-Ffint, for a three-month period
Peter A. Railton, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Roy A. Rappaport, Leslie A. White Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, for a three-month period
Nancy E. Reame Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Arlene W. Saxonhouse, Professor of Political Science, with tenure for a nine-month period
Gary R. Saxonhouse, Professor of Economics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Rainer H. Sell, Professor of German, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a three-month period
Martin Sichel, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, for a three-month period
Lawrence Sklar Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, for a nine-month period
H. Dennis Smith, Professor of Music, with tenure, for a three-month period
Macklin Smith, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a three-month
period
Joel A. Smoller, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Theodore J. St. Antoine, James E. and Sarah A. Degan Professor of Law, with tenure, for a three-month
period
John D. Stevens Professor of Communication, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Roman Szporluk, Director and Professor of the Center for Russian and East European Studies and
History, with tenure, for a three-month period
Daniel Teichroew, Professor of Industrial Engineering, with tenure, for a three-month period
Jess G. Thoene, Associate Professor of Pediatrics an Communicable Diseases, with tenure, for a twelvemonth period, July 1, 1988
Yukio Tomazawa, Professor of Physics, with tenure for a nine-month period
Bernard Van't Hul, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a threemonth period
Maris A. Vinovskis, Professor History with tenure, for a three-month period
Gary S. Was, Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, also Associate Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, for a nine-month period
Helen Weingarten, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Robbins Burling, Professor of Linguistics and Anthropology, with tenure, for a nine-month period


-52 -



September Meeting, 1988


Scholaro Activitv
Lawrence E. Blume, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Paul A. Boghossian, Assistant Professor of Philosophy, for a three-month period
Rae L. Brown, Assistant Professor of Music for a nine-month period
William J. Linn, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for
a eight-month period
Donald J. Proctor, Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a eight-month period
Tobin A. Siebers, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
LouiseK. Stein, Assistant Professor of Music, for a three-month period
Jeremy T. Teitelbaum, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for a ninemonth period
Extended Sick
Paula M. Berg, Instructor of Anesthesiology, for a one-week period, June 28, 1988
Betty J. Davis, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Calvm 0. Dyer, Professor of Education, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Retirement Furlough
Harry H. Blecker, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a nine-month period
Gerald T. Charbeneau, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, for a twelve-month period
Chiao M. Chu, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Earl J. Dinger, Associate Professor of Dentistry with tenure for a twelve-month period
Avedis Donabediant Nathan Sinai Distinguished Professor ot Public Health, with tenure, for a twelvemonth period
Leonard K. Eaton, Emil Lorch Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure, for a ninemonth period
Samuel D. Estep, Professor of Law, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Francis E. Fisher, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure,
for a three-month period
Basil S. Georgopoulos, Professor of Psychology for a twelve-month period July 1,1988
Jesse E. Gordon, Professor of Socior of Psychology, orithout tenure, for  without tenure, for
a nine-month period
William Kerr, Director of the Michigan Phoenix Memorial Project and Professor of Nuclear
Engineering, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Hyman Kornbluh Assistant Professor of Education, for a twelve-month period, June 1, 1988
Alan B. Macnee, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, for a ninemonth period
Ross D. Margeson, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, for a twelve-month period
Robert C. Metcalf, Dean Emeritus and Professor of Architecture, with tenure for a nine-month period
William E. Porter, Professor of Communication, with tenure, for a nine-monti period
Robert G. Schafer, Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Flint for a three-month period
Louis J. Stout Professor of Music, with tenure for a nine-month period
Irene B. Tejada, Assistant Professor of Art and Education, for a nine-month period
Charles J. Titus, Professor of Mathematics with tenure, for a nine-month period
Dietrich H. Vincent, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Edgar F. Westrum, Jr., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Nathan T. Whitman, Professor of the History of Art, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Edwin H. Young, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, also Professor of Metallurgical
Engineering, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Leave Without Salary
Robert B. Barsky, Assistant Professor of Economics for a nine-month period
Jacquelynne S. Eccles, Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Gordon L. Flynn, Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, for a twelve-month period
Daniela Gobetti Assistant Professor of Political Science, for a nine-month period
Peter E. Hook, Professor of Indo-Aryan Languages, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, for a nine-month period
Jerold H. Israel Alene and Allan F Smith Professor of Law, with tenure, for a three-month period
Francoise G. Jaffe, Assistant Professor of Marketing, for a nine-month period
Myoungshic Jhun, Assistant Professor of Statistics, or a nine-month period
Khashayar Khorasani, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, for a eight-month
period
Hsin-Hsin Liang, Lecturer, Asian Languages and Cultures, for a nine-month period
Chjan C. Lim, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, for a nine-month period
Pankaj K. Mallick Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for an
eight-month period


-53 -



September Meeting, 1988


William I. Miller, Professor of Law, with tenure, for a three-month period
Aldon D. Morris, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, for a nine-month period
James D. Morrow, Assistant Professor of Political Science, for a nine-month period
Hiroko S. Pijanowksi, Professor of Art, with tenure, for a three-month period
David E. Rauma, Assistant Professor of Sociology, for a nine-month period
Hasan N. Seyhun, Assistant Professor of Finance, for a nine-month period
Thomas L. Stober, Assistant Professor of Accounting, for a nine-month period
Donna C. Stanton, Professor of Romance Languages and Women's Studies, with tenure, for a ninemonth period
Robert M. Stern, Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Mercedes Vaquero, Assistant Professor of Spanish, for a nne-month period
David R. Vineyard, Lecturer in Computer Science, UM-Flint, for a nine-month period
Maxine B. Zinn, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a nine-month period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective May 31, 1988 unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Joel D. Aberbach, Political Science, with tenure
Walter Eysselinck, Theatre and Drama, with tenure
Douglas R. Hofstadter, Mary Ann and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr. Professor for the Study of Human
Understanding and Professor of Psychology anCognitive Science, with tenure
Michael V. Johnson, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, also Professor of Neurology,
without tenure, July 31, 1988
Edward Lumsdaine, Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, also Dean of the College of
Engineering, UM-Dearborn, September 9, 1988
Richard L. Tannen, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Physiology, August 20,
1988
Lee-Jen Wei, Professor of Statistics, without tenure, and Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure, July 31,
1988
Associate Professor
Louis C. Argenta Surgery, with tenure, July 31, 1988
Martha L. Hyneck, Pharmacy, with tenure, June 30, 1988
Gunnar K. Svanberg, Dentistry, with tenure, August 31, 1988
Assistant Professor
Carol L.Barash, Eglish Langlish Language and Literature
Sootorn Boonyatikarn Architecture and Urban Planning, July 31, 1988
William D. Dunbar, Mathematics
Brent M. Egan, Internal Medicine, June 30, 1988
Ann D. Feldstein, Biostatistics
George Golitzin, Mathematics, August 31, 1988
David R. Grant, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, August 31, 1988
Dennis P. Han Ophthalmology, June 30, 1988
Terry W. Hood, Surgery, August 31, 1988
Marion D. Lewis, Nursing, July 31, 1988, correction of effective date previously reported as August 31,
1988
Alireza H. Mohammadian, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1988
Edith C. Morrison, Dentistry and Community Health Programs, August 31, 1988
Lawrence S. Moss, Mathematics
Fiona A. Murnaghan T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Jane A. Weintraub, Community Health Programs, Public Health and Dentistry, July 31, 1988
Francille R. Wilson, African-Afro-American Studies, UM-Flint
Thomas L. Ziemiecki, Dentistry, August 26, 1988
Instructor
John lacobucci, Surgery June 30, 1988
Sue F. Kao, Ophthalmology, June 30, 1988
Paul A. Kearney, Surgery, June 19, 1988
William Kincaid, Internal Medicine August 3, 1988
Timothy Kresowik, Surgery, June 36, 1988
Joel R. Montbriand Internal Medicine, June 30, 1988
Abbey L. Pachter, Nursing, June 30, 1988
William A. Phillips, Surgery, June 30, 1988
Lecturer
Gregg J. Berdy, Ophthalmology, July 6, 1988


-54 -



September Meeting, 1988


Benson C. Dugg, Dentistry, June 30, 1988
Bruce L. Hirshiman, Anesthesiology, June 30, 1988
Scott R. Hobson, Ophthalmology, July 6, 1988
Peter R. Kollros, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, August 31, 1988
Thomas Lawton, History of Art
David J. Leffell, Dermatology, June 30, 1988
Tarina M. Mendes, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 22, 1988
David L. Smith, Ophthalmology, July 6, 1988
Clinical Instructor
Ethelene C. Jones, Obstetrics and Gynecology, August 31, 1988
Colleen Ryan, Psychiatry, July 31, 1988
Retirement Memoirs
The Regents unanimously adopted the following retirement memoirs:
Charles N. Fusilier, D.D.S., Associate Professor of Dentistry in the Department
of Prosthodontics, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1988.
Upon completion of a two-year tour of duty with the United States Navy in
1958, Dr. Fusilier attended Eastern Michigan University for three years. He received
his D.D.S. degree from The University of Michigan in 1965 and his M.S. degree in
restorative dentistry from the Rackham School of Graduate Studies in 1968.
His teaching career began in 1965, when he became a clinical instructor in the
Department of Crown and Bridge Prosthodontics and the Department of Operative
Dentistry. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1968 and to associate professor in
1974. He has also maintained a part-time private practice since 1968.
In addition to his undergraduate teaching responsibilities, Dr. Fusilier has
taught a yearly postgraduate course in repair and maintenance of fixed restorations,
participated in a yearly postgraduate course on crown and bridge for the general
practitioner, presented a course to clinical instructors on quality crown and bridge
work and how to prevent failures, and presented programs on this specialty to
numerous state and local dental societies. For the past eighteen years, he has also run
the repair and maintenance clinic in the Department of Crown and Bridge
Prosthodontics.
An active member of the profession, Dr. Fusilier belongs to the American
Academy of Crown and Bridge Prosthodontics, the F. B. Vedder Society of Crown and
Bridge Prosthodontics (for which he has served as chair of laboratory relations), the
International Association for Dental Research, the Washtenaw District Dental
Society, and the Michigan and American Dental Associations.
As a member of the junior clinic coordination committee, Dr. Fusilier set up the
lectures, requirements, and general organization of the junior clinical experience in
crown and bridge. He also interviewed prospective dental students for the admissions
committee.
Bringing to bear his experience and commitment as an educator, Dr. Fusilier
worked with Dr. Billy Smith and others on a study published in the Journal of Dental
Education entitled, "A Criterion Model for the Dental School Instructor." He also
published the results of work he did on "Cross Pinning for Added Retention" in the
Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Charles N. Fusilier Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Frederick T. Haddock, Professor of Astronomy, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1988, after a most productive career as a teacher and researcher.
Professor Haddock received his S.B. degree in physics from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in 1941, his M.S. degree in physics from the University of
-55 -



September Meeting, 1988


Maryland in 1950, his Sc.D. (Hon.) from Rhodes University at Memphis in 1965, and
an Sc.D. (Hon.) from Ripon College in 1966. After serving as a physicist at the United
States Naval Research Laboratory from 1941-55, he joined The University of
Michigan in 1956, with joint appointments in the Department of Astronomy and the
Department of Electrical Engineering. He switched to a full-time appointment in the
Department of Astronomy in 1967.
In 1945, Professor Haddock received a commendation from the Secretary of the
Navy for the design and construction of the first submarine periscope radar antenna.
He served on numerous national and international scientific committees, is a Fellow
of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, and was Vice President of the
American Astronomical Society from 1961-63.
Professor Haddock pioneered the field of centimeter wavelength radio
astronomy, and exploited this technique to study the sun, plants, and galactic and
extragalactic objects. He made the first detection of radio emission from interstellar
gaseous nebulae, and he demonstrated the close association between microwave
bursts and solar flares. At The University of Michigan, he founded and directed the
solar radio observatory, the 85-foot telescope facility, and the space radio astronomy
laboratory, and established a strong graduate program. The laboratory built and
operated a highly successful series of space-borne experiments which studied the very
low frequency emissions of the sun, the interplanetary medium, and the milky-way
galaxy. His ground-based radio astronomy program to extend the spectra of radio
sources to higher frequencies led to the discovery, by one of his students, of the
variability of extragalactic radio sources. Professor Haddock was also the
co-discoverer of the polarization variability of extragalactic sources. These discoveries
led to the development of one of the major research fields in modern astronomy.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Frederick T. Haddock Professor Emeritus of Astronomy.
Brian N. Morton, Associate Professor of French, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1988.
A native of London, England, Professor Morton received his B.S., M.A., and
Ph.D. degrees from Columbia University in 1958, 1963, and 1967, respectively. Before
joining the faculty at The University of Michigan, Professor Morton taught for three
years at Williams College in Massachusetts. He came to The University of Michigan
in 1969 as an assistant professor. In 1972, he was promoted to the rank of professor.
During his teaching career, Professor Morton received grant support from the
National Endowment for the Humanities, the American Council of Learned Societies,
and from various granting bodies within The University of Michigan. His research
dealt generally with eighteenth century French literature, and more specifically with
Beaumarchais. Between 1970 and 1979, he edited four volumes of Beaumarchais'
correspondence and published a monograph dealing with his role in the revolution.
In recent years, Professor Morton brought out a series of popularly received
books on Americans in various European capitals.
The Regents now salute this distinguished language professor for his dedicated
service by naming Brian N. Morton Associate Professor Emeritus of French.
Robert R. Nissle, D.D.S., Professor of Dentistry in the Department of
Restorative Dentistry and Research Scientist in the Dental Research Institute, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1988, after a long association with the University
and the School of Dentistry.
Born in Ann Arbor, Dr. Nissle graduated from the city's University High School
in 1948. He received his B.S., D.D.S., and M.S. degrees from The University of
Michigan in 1952, 1956, and 1962, respectively. A captain in the Army Dental Corps


-56 -



September Meeting, 1988


from 1956-58, he served in Korea and at Ft. Wayne in Detroit.
Dr. Nissle's career as an educator began in 1960 when he became an instructor
in the School of Dentistry. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1966, associate
professor in 1970, and professor in 1974. Concurrent with these promotions was his
advancement as a researcher, having been named research assistant in 1961, research
associate in 1964, and research scientist in 1977.
Throughout his career, Dr. Nissle's research interests and activities have focused
primarily on various methods of periodontal treatment. Results of these efforts have
been published in a number of articles, such as "Subgingival Curettage Versus Surgical
Elimination of Periodontal Pockets," "Longitudinal Study of Periodontal Therapy,"
"The Modified Widman Flap," and "Oral Hygiene and Maintenance of Periodontal
Support" (all co-authored with Dr. Sigurd Ramfjord and others, and published in the
Journal of Periodontology). In addition to his teaching and research responsibilities, he
also maintained a part-time private practice in periodontics for a time.
Dr. Nissle is a member of the Michigan and the American Dental Associations,
the American Academy of Periodontology (AAP), and the Washtenaw District Dental
Society (WDDS). He was on the program committee for the AAP's spring seminar for
two years, chairing it the second, and on the AAP's local arrangements committee. He
chaired a number of committees in the WDDS, including those on membership, dental
health, and local arrangements. He was also on the advisory committee of the
Washtenaw District Dental Hygienists Association, and belongs to Phi Kappa Phi
professional society and Omicron Kappa Upsilon honor society.
Earlier in his career with the School of Dentistry, Dr. Nissle was responsible for
the coordination and supervision of the clinical teaching of senior dental students.
Other contributions include membership on internal school committees dealing with
teaching, emergency and resuscitation, and student affairs.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Robert R. Nissle Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
John Reidy, Professor of English Language and Literature, retired from active
faculty status on August 31, 1988, after a distinguished career as a teacher, scholar,
and editor.
A native of the United Kingdom, Professor Reidy received his B.A. degree with
honors from Queen Mary College, University of London, in 1942. After a stint in the
British Army from 1941 to 1946, during which time he rose to the rank of captain, he
returned to Queen Mary College, where he received his M.A. degree in 1948. From
1949 to 1960, he was a member of the faculty at the University of Western Ontario in
London, Ontario; while there he received his Ph.D. degree from the University of
London in 1956. From 1960 to 1961, he was a visiting lecturer at The University of
Michigan. He joined the faculty of The University of Michigan in 1961 as assistant
professor of English and associate editor of the Middle English Dictionary; he was
promoted to associate professor in 1962 and professor in 1969. In 1973, Professor
Reidy and his colleagues, Hans Kurath and Sherman Kuth, won The University of
Michigan Press Book Award for their work on the Middle English Dictionary.
Professor Reidy continued with the Dictionary until 1975, when he returned to
full-time teaching; from 1979 to 1983, he was also consulting editor at the Dictionary
and, from 1983 to 1987, full-time review editor.
Professor Reidy's main scholarly interests are in medieval alchemy: he has
edited Thomas Norton's Ordinall of Alchemy (circa 1477) for the Early English Text
Society, has published articles on various aspects of the subject, has completed the first
volume of a two-volume edition of Latin alchemical treatises for the Chaucer Library
project, and will spend part of his retirement preparing an edition of George Ripley's
Compende of Alchemy (1471). In addition, he has edited Chaucer's Treatise on the
P      y~~~~~~~~~-7


-57 -



September Meeting, 1988


Astrolabe for the Riverside Chaucer, now the standard edition of the poet's works.
As an editor on the Middle English Dictionary, Professor Reidy had an uncanny
ability to see the essential gist of meaning in a series of quotations, a conciseness and
felicity of phrase in the writing of definitions, and a broad knowledge of medieval
culture, history, and literature, including an almost total recall of the Bible, all of
which have contributed greatly to the high quality of the Dictionary. As a teacher, he
carefully guided the doctoral work of many graduate students. He was known both for
his ability to cover every aspect of medieval literature (from 700 to 1500) and for his
willingness to engage undergraduates at every level, from freshman English to
departmental honors courses.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar, teacher, and editor by
naming John Reidy Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved the final degree list for the May, 1988 Law School
commencement. On recommendation of the proper authority in each case, the
Regents also approved amendments to previously approved degree lists.
Annual Report on Investments, 1987-88
Vice President Womack said that the market value of the Endowment and
Other Invested Funds had increased by $14 million, from $332 million to $346 million.
There was a $24 million increase in gifts or additions and a $10 million reduction from
realized and unrealized losses. He reminded the Regents that 1988 had been a
difficult year for equity markets, and that the performance of the University's fund visa-vis the environment it was operating in was good. The market value of the
University's endowment fund on June 30, 1988 was $300 million, and that fund had
performed well compared to market indices. He pointed out that the University's
common stock manager returns for the fiscal year represented a loss of.6%, while the
Standard and Poor's index had a 6.9% decline. The University's asset allocation mix
as of June 30 was 69.4% equities and 30.6% fixed income, which is within the
guidelines established by the Regents. The University's investment pool yielded 8.8%
for the fiscal year, compared to 6.5% for the average money market fund.
In response to a question from Regent Smith about the performance of one of
the University's common stock managers, Atalanta/Sosnoff, Vice President Womack
stated that the University was currently evaluating that situation and would be making
a recommendation to the Regents in October. Regent Smith also noted the
underperformance of the Donor Pooled Income Fund. University Investment Officer
Norman Herbert replied that the University was currently working with the trustee,
National Bank of Detroit, to change the mix of equity versus fixed income securities.
Regent Baker asked what the anticipated return had been for the past year,
based on assumptions that had been made several years ago. Mr. Herbert stated that
the return on the University's investments had been expected to be 9.1% for the past
year; instead, it was 2.5% for the first full year of operation under the University's
current managers and allocation policy. Regent Baker asked whether the University
would still be able to make the 5.5% distribution; Mr. Herbert responded
affirmatively. Regent Roach noted that although the University hadn't achieved its
goal of keeping pace with inflation plus a 5.5% distribution, it had nevertheless
outperformed the market. He also pointed out that the original performance


-58 -



September Meeting, 1988


projections had been based on long-term projections, and that results could not be
determined by one-year performance.
Vice President Womack referred to a 70-year study that suggested that being in
the market for a 70 year period yields a return of 10%, but that if you are only out of
the market for five years, te return will be less than 5%. Responding to a question
from Regent Baker, Vice President Womack explained that the 5.5% distribution is
based on the fact that although the earnings will vary from year to year, over the long
term, they will be sufficient to maintain the overall 5.5% payout. Regent Baker
observed that there is expected to be a major contraction in credit within the next two
to three years, and questioned whether it would still be wise to retain 70% in equities.
Vice President Womack said at this point, he would say yes, because he doesn't
believe in trying to time the market, but that future market conditions might cause him
to review this judgement.
Following further discussion of the University's investment performance, Vice
President Womack said that he was planning to hold a discussion of the University's
investment strategy at a future Regents' meeting that would be scheduled independent
of any investment-related action requests. Regent Power endorsed this idea, and
President Duderstadt stated that it might be possible to schedule such a session during
the November meeting.
Income Tax on Tuition Waivers for Graduate Student Assistants
Vice President Holbrook explained that the value of the tuition waivers
provided for Graduate Student Assistants has been determined to be taxable under
new provisions of the federal tax code that took effect January 1, 1988. In the hope
that the efforts of educational institutions to reverse this provision would be successful,
the University had elected to pay the taxes without withholding them from students'
wages. The taxes have, however, been posted to the students' accounts and carried
forward without penalty, pending resolution of this problem. On a motion by Regent
Power, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents unanimously approved extending this
practice through the Fall term of 1988. If the tax exemption has not been re-enacted
by the time that Congress adjourns for the fall, 1988 elections, the students have been
advised that all tax withholding previously posted to student accounts will become fully
due and payable as of January 1, 1989, and students will be liable for tax payments
from that point on.
Regent Power noted a recent series of articles that had appeared in the Ann
Arbor News which detailed problems in graduate education. He encouraged the
administration to do everything possible to relieve the financial burdens placed on
graduate students. President Duderstadt and Vice President Holbrook responded that
the University has been working both with Congress and internally with the Graduate
Employees Organization on a number of proposals related to this issue. Vice
President Kennedy pointed out that the entire Michigan congressional delegation had
signed a resolution supporting continuation of the exclusion of tuition waivers from
income tax liability, and that the University has been one of the leading institutions in
the national effort to achieve this goal in Washington.
Regents Varner and Roach suggested that the University devise alternative
means of solving this problem internally if Congress does not act. The Regents also
suggested that letters be written to appropriate elected officials urging that action be
taken. It was noted, however, that at this point in time the chances of Congressional
-59 -



September Meeting, 1988


action on this issue are slim.
Health Insurance Rates for December 1, 1988
Vice President Womack explained that the Health Care Cost Committee,
chaired by Professor Roy Penchansky, had recommended that the formula by which
the University's contribution to health insurance is calculated be changed. Regent
Nielsen moved, and Regent Power seconded, a motion that beginning with premiums
due December 1, 1988, the University accept the committee's suggestion of using a
formula based on the weighted average of all three or more person contract
premiums, and that the University's contribution be set at 85% of the weighted
average for 1988-89. Regent Smith said that she wanted to see projections of future
costs before making a decision on this motion. Therefore, voting on the motion was
tabled until the next morning.
The meeting was recessed to allow the Regents to move to the Michigan Union
to hear Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Chris Jones, President of the Black Student Union, on Black student
concerns; Christopher Ahn, Minority Organization of Rackham, on graduate student
concerns; Joanna Su, UM Asian Student Coalition, on the Discrimination and
Discriminatory Harassment Policy; Roberto Frisancho, President, Coalition for
Democracy in Latin America, on the Discrimination and Discriminatory Harassment
Policy; Sandra Steingraber, Graduate Student Teaching Assistant, Jim Ringold,
Manager of Michigan SANE/Freeze, and Michael Phillips, President of Michigan
Student Assembly, on the Policy on Disruption of Student Activities; Zachary Kittrie,
student, on the tuition increase; Gus Teschke, graduate student, on the Harold
Marcuse Trial; and Mark Ristich, general manager of WUMD at UM-Dearborn, on
the deferral of the planned student fee increase at UM-Dearborn.
Friday, September 16, 1988
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Vice Presidents
Johnson, Wilson, Womack, and Associate Vice President Holbrook were also present,
as were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regents Varner and Waters and Vice
President Cosovich were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order.
Proposed Architectural Services Contract between The University of Michigan and an
Architectural Firm in which the Principal is a University Employee (Gunnar Birkerts
and Associates)
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents voted
to authorize the University to enter into a contract with the firm of Gunnar Birkerts


-60 -



September Meeting, 1988


and Associates, Inc. for the architectural design of the replacement football building.
This arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute, since
the principal of this firm, Gunnar G. Birkerts, is a University employee. All of the six
regents present, Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Smith, voted in
favor of the motion.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the contract will be The University of Michigan and the
architectural firm of Gunnar Birkerts and Associates, Inc. of
Birmingham, Michigan.
2.  Financial terms of the contract are set by the standard University
Architectural Services Contract, which is based upon a percentage of
the project construction cost. The percentage declines as the
construction cost increases, according to a formula. If the construction
cost is $10 million, the fee would be 5.265% or $526,500, plus
reimbursables. Duration of the contract will depend on the University's
ability to raise funds. No facilities or services of the University are
included in the contract, and no University employees are assigned for
fulfillment of the contract.
3.  Pecuniary interest is the amount paid for the architectural services as
outlined in #2 above.
Regent Baker asked that the Regents be provided with periodic reports tracking
the amounts of royalties received by both University employees and the University in
similar conflict of interest agreements that involve royalty payments.
Intercollegiate Athletics Project to Replace the Sports Service Building
Vice President Womack explained that the financing for this project, with a
budget of $12 million, will come entirely from gifts. The University will not proceed
with the project until gifts worth at least 50% of the project have been received, and
pledges have been made to cover the remainder. At that time, a loan would be
executed to bridge the period while the pledges mature.
Regent Nielsen moved approval and Regent Roach seconded the motion.
Regent Brown asked whether the facility's dining area was intended to be used as a
training table, and if so, whether that indicated a programmatic change in the athletic
program. Associate Athletic Director Jack Weidenbach stated that he did not believe
that there was any intention of segregating the football team from the rest of the
University by using the facility as a training table. The dining area would be used for
various athletic department functions, and is not intended to be used as a training table.
Regent Nielsen said that he thought it would be useful for the Regents to receive an
oral or written presentation explaining the programmatic aspects of this project.
President Duderstadt commented that the adrmnistration shares the Regents' concern
about integrating the intercollegiate athletic program with the rest of the academic
community. Regent Power endorsed Regent Nielsen's comments.
There being no further discussion, the regents voted unanimously to authorize
proceeding with the preliminary architectural design, and assigning the site of the
-61 -



September Meeting, 1988


present Sports Service Building for its replacement.
511 Glen Avenue, Ann Arbor
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved the purchase of 511 Glen Avenue, Ann Arbor, from Margaret
Harris at a price of $65,000, subject to the existing lease.
William Albert Harper Preserve Oil and Gas Lease
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Nielsen seconded, a motion to approve the
paid-up oil and gas lease submitted by C.E. Beck Associates, Inc. on behalf of Amoco
Oil for 330 acres of vacant land located west of Linden in Genesee County. The
motion was approved unanimously.
The Regents commended Vice President Womack on successful negotiations that
improved the terms of the original paid-up lease from a $15 per acre, 1/8th royalty to a
$20 per acre, 1/6th royalty.
Charlevoix County Oil and Gas Lease
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved execution of a paid-up oil and gas lease submitted by
Petro-Resource Services on 200 acres of vacant land located in Melrose Township in
Charlevoix County, Michigan. The original terms of the agreement have been
renegotiated and improved.
11.23 Vacant Acres, Pittsfield Township, Washtenaw County
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Power seconded, a motion to accept the offer
of $60,000 submitted by Aarian, Inc. for 11.23 vacant acres in Pittsfield Township,
Washtenaw County, Michigan, subject to the purchaser's obtaining the necessary
approvals to construct a condominium complex. The University will pay Earl Keim
Realty a 10% realtor's commission. The motion was approved unanimously.
Renovations Institute for Science and Technology, Kresge Building, H.H. Rackham
Building, West Engineering Building, Dow/G.G. Brown Connector, Pharmacy Building
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted
unanimously to proceed with these projects, as described in the Regents
Communication, each of which exceeds a cost of $200,000.
Church/Forest Option Proposal
This is a proposal for the University to enter into an option agreement with John
C. Stegeman for a parcel of land owned by the University immediately east of the
Church Street Parking Structure, and for the University-owned parcels of land east of
Washtenaw and adjacent to the Observatory Street extension, including the "Wilmot
House". Vice President Womack pointed out that the University's electrical switching
station is located on parcel 1. According to the provisions of the proposed agreement,
Mr. Stegeman would be required to provide an alternative site for the switching station,
and to construct and furnish a new station entirely at his expense, with no interruption
of electrical service. The University would also have to be compensated at least


-62 -



September Meeting, 1988


$105,000 to cover the costs of the Wilmot House renovations.
Regent Brown moved approval of University's entering into the agreement, and
Regent Power seconded the motion.
Considerable discussion ensued about the wisdom of the University's entering
into such an agreement. Regent Nielsen questioned why the University would give
Stegeman the options for parcels 2, 3, 4, and 5, even if the decision is made to keep
parcel 1. Vice President Womack responded that the University is satisfied with the
location of the current electrical switching station on parcel 1. University investment
officer Norman Herbert pointed out that parcels 4 and 5 are slivers of land that are of
no value to the Regents, and that the University has invested money in parcels 2 and 3.
Regent Baker stated that in his opinion, the land in question is potentially one of
the most valuable parcels of land in the city, and that Mr. Stegeman's proposed
development could not go forward without the land owned by the University. He felt
that the University should not negotiate until Mr. Stegeman is ready to proceed with his
project. Regents Power and Nielsen also expressed reservations about the particulars
of this proposal, and felt that the Regents needed more information about the
developer's reasons for desiring these specific options before they could proceed. They
pointed out that given the housing shortage in Ann Arbor, perhaps the land in question
could be used for housing. Regent Baker felt that the Regents should be given a
comprehensive statement of Mr. Stegeman's plans for the property, and that the
Regents should negotiate a fair price in light of the proposed plans.
Regent Power stated that it would be helpful for the University to develop a
comprehensive housing policy before approving the proposed option agreement.
Regents Roach and Brown did not agree that the University should be concerned with
the developer's plans for the property in question, stating that that is a concern for the
city, and that the University had been offered the fair market value of the property.
They did not feel that the University has any use for parcels 4 and 5, and that the rest of
the property is not feasible for construction of housing. Regent Nielsen disagreed,
stating that the manner in which the property is developed will have an effect on the
University.
Regent Varner arrived at the meeting at 9:50 A.M. Following further discussion
of the various issues surrounding the proposed option agreement, it was decided to
withdraw this item from consideration. Regent Power reiterated his concern that the
University does not currently have a well-developed policy with respect to housing.
Proposed Assignment and Royalty Agreement between The University of Michigan and
a University Employee (Dr. Daniel T. Barry)
Vice President Wilson explained the somewhat unusual terms of this proposed
agreement in which a University employee, Dr. Daniel T. Barry, had previously
assigned ownership interests in an invention ("shoe with spring-like sole member")
developed outside his University employment to the University. He has since
developed additional inventions and is asking the University to relinquish its ownership
of the original invention back to him. In return for the reassignment of the ownership
rights, the University would be reimbursed for patent expenses it has incurred and
receive a portion of future royalties generated by Dr. Barry's licensing of sport shoes.
Vice President Wilson explained that the renegotiated agreement will enhance the
University's interests over what they had been in the original agreement.


-63 -



September Meeting, 1988


Regent Roach moved approval of the agreement, and Regent Power seconded
the motion. It was approved unanimously by the seven regents present (Regents Baker,
Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Varner). Because Dr. Barry is a University
employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the assignment and royalty agreement will be the University
of Michigan and Dr. Daniel T. Barry.
2.  Terms of the contract include: A duration starting upon the date of
approval by the Board of Regents and continuing in perpetuity, so long
as Dr. Barry complies with the terms of the agreement. The financial
terms include reimbursement of University patent and licensing
expenses as well as royalty payments to the University of 7.5% of
revenues received by Dr. Barry (or any companies in which he owns
more than 20% interest) for shoe products which do not incorporate an
"energy return" characteristic, and 15% of revenues received by Dr.
Barry (or such companies) for shoe products which do incorporate an
"energy return" characteristic; however, should any revenue received by
Dr. Barry (or such companies) be in the form of up-front, exclusivity or
license issue fees, the University would receive 11.25% of such fees.
The contract does not include the use of University facilities or services
or the commitment of University employees.
3.  Dr. Barry's pecuniary interests arise in the event of successful
commercialization of the invention and related inventions developed
outside the University, whereby Dr. Barry will receive revenues from
licensees and the University will receive a portion of those revenues in
the form of royalties.
1988-89 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
Regent Roach observed that it is difficult to discern a plan of how the University
will spend its revenue for the coming year by reviewing the budget document. He
pointed out several examples in the document where it appears that a budget has been
decreased when it has actually been enhanced. It is difficult for the Regents to
determine what is going on programmatically, which they need to be able to do if they
are to fulfill their roles as monitors of the budget. Vice President Womack responded
that an emphasis on materiality would be a clearer way to display the figures in this
light. Regent Power agreed that that would be a better approach, stating that
"policy-driven resource changes need to be highlighted." President Duderstadt said
that the administration would try to address these concerns in future budget
documents.
There was further discussion about the 1988-89 Revenue and Expenditure
Operating Budgets, during which the Regents asked questions relating to specific
items in individual budgets.
1988-89 Ann Arbor General Fund Operating Budget
The Regents received information about the 1988-89 Ann Arbor General Fund
Operating Budget.


-64 -



September Meeting, 1988


UM-Ann Arbor Student Tuition Rates for 1988-89 (Revised)
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, a majority of the
regents present voted to approve a revision to the 1988-89 tuition schedule that had
been approved in July 1988. Regent Smith stated that she would abstain from voting
because she had voted against the proposal that had been approved in July. Regents
Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Varner voted in favor of the motion, and Regents
Baker and Smith abstained. The rates represent a tuition increase of from 7.2% to
7.5% over the 1987-88 rates for resident undergraduate students. (Combined with the
$30 increase in fees, the total increase for these students is 9.9%.)
UM-Dearborn Student Fee Rates for 1988-89 (Revised)
Regent Roach moved approval of the revised student fee schedule for the
Dearborn Campus. Regent Brown seconded the motion. Regent Nielsen asked th  why
the tuition schedule did not include the $5.00 increase in student fees that had
previously been approved by the Regents. Chancellor Wilson stated that plans are to
defer the implementation of the $5.00 increase until the Winti nter term of 1989.
President Duderstadt said that the delay in implementation of the $5.00 fee increase
was in response to the governor's concern over year-to-year cost increases.
Regent Nielsen responded that the students at UM-Dearborn had requested the
$5.00 fee increase and that the governor's request was interfering with the Regents'
autonomy. Regent Baker agreed that the students' request to maintain the planned
$5.00 fee increase ought to be honored. President Duderstadt pointed out that the
intention was not to eliminate the fee increase, but to delay its implementation for one
term. Regent Nielsen responded that a delay would affect the programming that had
been planned for this allocation.
Chancellor Wilson pointed out that the decrease from 12% to 9.9%, excluding
the student fee issue, places the entire Dearborn campus ian identical, and even
more difficult position than the student organizations. The decrease of over $200,000
in the planned budget means that everyone on the Dearborn campus will need to
revise the plans they had made in July. The planning process for deciding how to
balance the budget will involve the whole campus, including students.
Regent Nielsen stated the he would support the revised budget that was before
the Regents, but would also include the previously planned for $5.00 student fee
increase during the fall term. Regent Roach pointed out that abiding by the
governor's request to hold fee increases to below 10% had already forced the
Dearborn campus to propose an unbalanced budget. Were the $5.00 student fee
increase to be implemented this term, that would further increase the deficit by about
$35,000: Either that amount would have to be funded by other sources on the
Dearborn campus, or it would be have to be added to student fee assessments, thereby
raising them beyond the current 9.9%.
Further discussion ensued about the proposed delay in implementing the
student fee increase. Regent Brown suggested that Chancellor Wilson be requested to
allocate one-time funds that could be used selectively as bridging funds for the fall
semester. Regent Power noted that the budget process on the whole Dearborn
campus had already been usurped by the governor's request to limit fee increases, and
Regent Varner observed that all segments of the Dearborn campus are going to have
to make adjustments of this type. Regent Brown stated that the setting of tuition and


-65 -



September Meeting, 1988


fees is the job of the Board, and not of student groups. He called the question.
Regent Roach said that he felt it would be appropriate for the Dearborn
administration to try to bridge funds for selected items for which timing is critical. But
he pointed out that a delay in some of the planned expenditures would not create an
undue hardship. Regent Nielsen said that more than one student had appeared before
the Board of Regents at the previous day's public comments session, and that student
government members were in the audience during the present discussion. Chancellor
Wilson stated that there is no disagreement on the Dearborn campus between the
majority of students, the majority of faculty, and the majority of the administration.
Regardless of the careful planning that had taken place, the campus was simply in a
position where it did not have the funds it anticipated having. She stated that the
Dearborn campus would carry out the Regents' recommendations in the spirit in
which the Regents had framed them.
The vote was called on the revised Dearborn student fee rates for 1988-89. The
motion carried, with Regents Brown, Power, Varner, and Roach in favor, Regent
Nielsen opposed, and Regents Baker and Smith abstaining.
UM-Flint Student Fee Rates for 1988-89 (Revised)
Regent Brown moved approval of the revised student fee rates for 1988-89 for
UM-Flint. Regent Power seconded the motion. There being no discussion, the
motion carried, with Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Varner in favor and
Regents Baker and Smith abstaining.
1988-89 Budgets
Regent Brown moved, and Regent Power seconded, approval of the 1988-89
University Budgets. The motion carried, with Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, and Varner in favor and Regent Baker abstaining.
Proposed Renaming of the Great Lakes and Marine Waters Center
Regent Smith moved that the Great Lakes and Marine Waters Center be
renamed the Center for Great Lakes and Aquatic Sciences. Regent Varner seconded
the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
1989 Regents' Meeting Schedule
Regent Smith moved approval of the 1989 Regents' Meeting Schedule. Regent
Nielsen seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously. The 1989 schedule is
as follows:
January 19-20                    July 20-21
February 16-17                   August no meeting
March 23-24                      September 14-15
April 20-21                      October 19**-20
May 18*-19                       November 16-17
June 22-23                       December 14-15
*  Held at UM-Dearborn
** Held at UM-Flint


-66 -



September Meeting, 1988


Commencement exercises in 1989 will be held on Saturday, April 29 and
Sunday, December 17.
Membership in the Association of American Cancer Institutes; Membership in the
Pacific Asian Consortium for International Business Education and Research
The Regents voted unanimously to approve membership in the Association of
American Cancer Institutes and in the Pacific Asian Consortium for International
Business Education and Research.
Appointment of Virginia B. Nordby as Chair of the Residency Appeals Committee
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved appointment of Virginia B. Nordby to replace Richard L.
Kennedy as Chair of the Residency Appeals Committee, effective October 1, 1988.
Honorary Degrees
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Baker seconded, approval of the selections of
the Committee on Honorary Degrees for recipients of honorary degrees and alumni
achievement awards. The motion passed unanimously.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Transportation,
accommodation, and other expenses totalled $1,206.50 for the month of July, 1988 and
$7,889.20 for the month of August, 1988.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secret


-67 -



OCTOBER MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, October 20, 1988
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the University Center Building at The
University of Michigan-Flint.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, Womack, and Interim Vice President Holbrook were also
present, as were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Varner was absent.
CESF Report, UM-Flint
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and introduced Professor A.
Raymond Roth, Chair of the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty at
UM-Flint. Professor Roth stated that CESF-Flint is studying the concept of flexible
benefits. He asked that when considering benefit packages, the Regents take into
account the uniqueness of the Flint campus in relation to the Ann Arbor and
Dearborn campuses. For example, he pointed out that Flint faculty do not need
housing assistance, as housing costs are much lower in the Flint area than in the other
campus areas. Likewise, MCare is of no benefit to people who reside in Flint, as there
are no MCare facilities in the area. Finally, he stated that Flint faculty have little need
for tuition benefits.
In response to a question from Regent Roach, Vice President Womack said that
a committee is currently studying the issues surrounding the concept of flexible
benefits. After the committee's report is issued, a recommendation will be forwarded
to the Regents.
FY 1989-90 State Budget Request, Ann Arbor Campus
Interim Vice President Holbrook stated that the University is proposing a plan
by which the University and the state can begin to rebuild their long-standing
partnership. The state must increase its investment in people, in the form of
education at all levels, training in the types of skills that technology-dependent jobs
will require, and research in new technologies and ideas that are essential in
generating economic development and preparing leaders of the future. Other states
have begun to surpass Michigan in recognizing the importance of support of higher
education, so that Michigan currently ranks 32nd in the amount of higher education
appropriations as a percent of state tax revenue. In appropriations for 4-year public
institutions per headcount enrollment, Vice President Holbrook said that Michigan
fell from 17th in 1968-69 to 30th in 1986-87. For FY 1988-89, Michigan ranked 40th
among all states in its annual percentage increase in state appropriations for higher
education, and 36th in the two-year percentage increase. When adjusted for inflation,
he added, the University actually experienced a decrease in appropriations in the
1988-89 fiscal year.
The University of Michigan, he emphasized, has continued to offer a top quality


-69 -



October Meeting, 1988


education at bargain prices. Compared with its peer institutions, the cost of attending
the University of Michigan for in-state residents is one-half the cost of the University
of California at Berkeley and about one-quarter of the cost of its nine private peers.
The University's role as a research institution helps to strengthen the state's economic
development through revitalizing manufacturing, developing new technologies, and
attracting new business.
Regent Baker commented that the University needs to examine ways it can
increase its visibility in the provision of public service throughout the state, noting that
the University should re-establish its long time working relationship with the several
hundred thousand Realtors in Michigan. Vice President Holbrook responded that the
administration is aware of this.
Vice President Holbrook outlined the University's planned new expenditures for
the 1989-90 fiscal year. These include $11.4 million or fixed costs (staff benefits,
supplies, etc.), $3.2 million for new space operating costs, $1.2 million for new space
debt service, $16.4 million for compensation, $2.5 million for faculty salary restoration,
$.8 million for Research Excellence Fund recovery, $1.5 million for student financial
aid, $3.1 million for minority faculty and student recruitment and retention, $4 million
for laboratory equipment, $1 million for the University library, $3 million for program
initiatives, and $3 million for facility renovation and renewal, for a total of $51.1
million. Subtracting $5.5 million for anticipated internal reallocation, planned new
expenditures total $45.6 million.
Budget planners have further divided planned incremental expenditures for
1989-90 into subcategories of $32.7 for minimum needs (fixed costs, new space
operating costs and debt service, base 5.5% compensation program, Research
Excellence Fund recovery, minority faculty and student recruitment and retention, and
University libraries), $5.5 million for restoration and new initiatives (faculty salary
restoration and program initiatives), and $12.9 for other critical needs (additional 2%
catch-up compensation program, student financial aid, laboratory equipment, and
facilities renovations and renewal).
The University proposes that for the 1989-90 fiscal year, the University and the
state act jointly to fund $28.7 million of the minimum needs expenditures by
combining an increase in the state appropriation% f 2% over the tax revenue growth
rate with a corresponding increase in tuition to reach a total of $28.7 million. A
forecast of 6% growth in tax revenue, therefore, would imply an appropriation
increase of 8%, or $13.6 million toward the minimum need of $28.7 million. The
remaining $15.1 million would then be funded through a tuition increase of 8.9%. The
University, in concert with other Michigan public colleges and universities, believes
that the state of Michigan must regain its status as a leader in higher education by
moving to the top one-third of states in appropriations as a percent of tax revenue.
This will require a $210 million increment in appropriation (19%). To accomplish
this, the President's Council has proposed a five-year plan consisting of a 4% annual
increase over the expected rate of growth in tax revenue. The 2% increase above this
amount proposed for the 1989-90 fiscal year is seen as a first step in reaching this goal.
Regent Baker noted that the governor's budget office had recently announced that
cutbacks in state funding for various social services were anticipated. He suggested
that the University administration be realistic about its revenue expectations.
Several of the Regents asked about the percentages of resident and nonresident
students who receive financial aid, and how much aid is received by each group. The


-70 -



October Meeting, 1988


total available pool of financial aid last year was $61.8 million ($125 million, including
work/study assistance). Regent Power asked whether the total amount available was
actually spent, what happens to amounts that are left over, and how the availability of
financial aid is publicized to students. The Regents also asked for explanations of how
the figures used in the budget document were calculated; in particular, the amount of
the state appropriation received by the University during its fiscal year, which is
different than the state's fiscal year.
In response to a question from Regent Power, Vice President Holbrook stated
that the total state appropriation for higher education amounts to $4,403 per student
for each student attending a public institution. Regent Power observed that the
average state expenditure per inmate in correctional institutions is more than four
times that amount, at $25,000 per person. President Duderstadt noted that the total
cost of education at the University of Michigan per student per year is about $12,000.
FY 1989-90 State Budget Request, UM-Dearborn
Chancellor Wilson presented an incremental request for the Dearborn campus
of $3,278,000. This includes $2,080,000 for the compensation program, $290,000 for
non-salary improvement, and $908,000 for "critical budgetary increases"
(Manufacturing Systems Engineering Laboratory equipment, replacement of obsolete
laboratory equipment, upgrading of computer facilities, hiring of new faculty in critical
areas, new space operating costs).
President Duderstadt emphasized that the Dearborn budget request reflects
that campus's concern with inadequate compensation levels. Regent Roach asked why
this request was not consistent with the 8% increase request of the Ann Arbor campus.
Chancellor Wilson and President Duderstadt responded that this budget was derived
under a different set of assumptions than that of the Ann Arbor campus.
FY 1989-90 State Budget Request, UM-Flint
Chancellor Jones stated that this year's budget request highlights four priority
areas for the Flint campus: the compensation program, including an attempt to bring
Flint salaries closer to the 80 percentile rank of other class IIA institutions
($1,550,000), operating costs for the new Science Building ($418,000), non-salary
accounts economic program (library acquisitions, departmental operating accounts,
utilities inflation, student aid program, equipment maintenance) ($550,000), and
program revisions/enhancements (minority faculty initiatives, integrated library
system, information resource management, program enhancement) ($610,000). The
total incremental request amounts to $3,128,000.
Chancellor Jones pointed out that the 1988-89 state appropriation included less
than half of the funding necessary for operating costs of the new Science Building, and
those costs make up a substantial portion of the budget. The $418,000 included in the
1989-90 request represents the balance of the 1988-89 request plus an adjustment for
inflation. In response to a question from Regent Baker, Chancellor Jones said that the
Flint campus does not charge a $100 computer fee that is assessed on the Ann Arbor
campus.
It was decided to delay a vote on the three state budget requests until the
following day, after the public had had an opportunity to comment on them.


-71 -



October Meeting, 1988


Minutes
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents voted
unanimously to approve the Minutes of the meeting of September 15 and 16, 1988, as
corrected.
Reports
Report on Investment Transactions. Vice President Womack asked that the
item in the additional agenda regarding "Comparison with Treasury Bills" be
substituted for page two of this report. Regent Roach asked for clarification of the
"Land Contract" entry on page four; it was explained that these represent properties
the University has sold or received subject to land contract, in which the University is
the owner of the land contract.
Litigation Report. Vice President Womack noted that this report contains a
summary of all of the cases pending against the University except for malpractice
cases. The Regents will be apprised monthly of the number of these cases, of which
there are currently 87, but will not receive summaries.
Report on Non-competitive Purchases Over $2000 from Single Sources, 7/1/88
- 9/30/88. Regent Power requested information about a $45,000 contract between the
Industrial Technology Institute and the Center for Chinese Studies, and about a
$900,000 contract between United Health Services, Inc. and University Hospitals
Housekeeping Department. Vice President Womack explained the circumstances
behind the latter contract, and agreed to provide the information about the former
one as soon as possible.
The Regents also received monthly reports on Plant Extension and
Personnel/Labor Relations, as well as Summaries of a Selection of Current Research
and Sponsored Projects and Projects Established, Research and Other Academic
Activities. On a metion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
voted to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report of Gifts Received and Listing of
Gifts of $5,000 and Above for September, 1988. Regent Roach noted that there
appeared to be a downward trend in foundation giving. Vice President Cosovich
confirmed this, stating that there is increasing competition for foundation support.
Regent Waters moved, Regent Roach seconded, and the Regents approved receipt of
this report.


-72 -



October Meeting, 1988


American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                              78,788
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the Colleges o Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts  61,000
American Council for An Energy Efficient Economy, Berkeley, California
for physics research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts   5,500
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                       15,000
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                               14,500
James W. AttwoodTrust, Wayne
for the Class of 1939 Engineers fund in the College of Engineering        5,000
Mable Bemister Estate
for cancer research in the Medical School                                 8,795
Edward S. Blake, Kettering, Ohio
cash gift for the Edward S. and Elizabeth Blake Life Agreement Fund, a
Charitable Remainder Unitrust for the ultimate benefit of research in the
Medical School                                                          200,000
F. A. & A. M. Bower Charitable Trust
for the F. Bruce Fralick Ophthalmology Fund in the Medical School        10,000
Bristol-Myers Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Associates Program and for student financial aid in the School of
Business Administration                                                  15,000
Carnegie Corporation of New York, New York
for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research     105,000
Children's'Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                       10,875
Citibank, NA., New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School
of Business Administration                                               50,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for tihe Children's Cochlear Implant Fun in the Medical School            7,000
Consumers Power Company, Jackson
for special exhibitions in the Museum of Art                              5,000
Council on International Educational Exchange, Inc., New York, New York
for support of the International Center                                  10,011
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                        5,558
Dow Chemical U.SA. Midland
for support of the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science and the Arts,
and for Employee Matching Gifts  e        L                              34,070
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  25,000
Earl-Beth Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts   5,000
William E. Ely Trust
for support of the Alumni Association                                    37,500
Exxon Chemical Company, Darien, Connecticut
for the Global Leadership Development Program in the School of Business
Administration                                                           20,000
June R. Gantz Trust, Boca Raton Florida
for research in the Medical School                                       10,000
Carolyn A. Gatward Trust
for the football facility in the Department of Athletics                 50,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
Dow Chemical Company common stock; pledge payment for the Rollin M.
Gerstacker Foundation Fund for Faculty Development in the College of
Engineering                                                              84,063
Gossett Fund, Troy
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               10,799
Kristle Heilig Fund Raising Committee, Port Austin
for the Children's Cochlear Implant Fund in the Medical School           25,000
Herbst Foundation, Inc San Francisco, California
pledge payment for support of the Law School                              5,000
Honeywell,Inc., Avionic Systems Group, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support of the College of Engineering                                15,000
International Heart of Variety, New York, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School         7,000


-73 -



October Meeting, 1988


J. P. Industries Inc. Ann Arbor
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the
School of Business Administration                                         5,000
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for pharmacology research in the Medical School                          50,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Dentistry and Public Health               16,245
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario
for research in the Medical School                                       21,500
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                       13,290
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York New York
for the Max Kade Funds in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  21,000
Keeler Fund, Grand Rapids
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts  20,000
Knights of Vartan, Haigazian Lodge - Grand Council, Arlington, Massachusetts
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program        10,000
Michael S. Knuths, Dallas Texas
for the Roy F. Profitt and Jean Humphrey Research Professorship in
the Law School                                                            5,000
Lockheed Leadership Fund, Calabasas, California
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering          16,000
Robert E. Lyon, Wheaton, Illinois
General Signal Corporation, and IBM Corporation common stocks; for the
Clarence E. Groesbeck Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering  27,594
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support of the Schools of Art, Business Administration, and Music; the
Colleges of Engineering, and Literature, Science and the Arts; and the
University Musical Society                                               33,430
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms;
for the Armenian Studies Program in the College of Literature, Science
and the Arts                                                              8,500
Manpower, Incorporated of Southeastern Michigan, Ann Arbor;
for the football facility in the Department of Athletics                 50,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                 7,289
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for faculty support in the School of Business Administration              5,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit;
for highwa safety safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology  245,438
Foorman L. Mueller Estate
for support of the College of Literature, Science and the Arts            5,000
Peat, Marwick Mitchell Foundation, Montvale New Jersey
for the Peat Marwick, Mitchell Research Fellowship in the School of
Business Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                 12,750
Alfons Podlack Estate
for Surgery Burn Research in the Medical School                         100,000
Pulte Home Corporation, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                5,000
Thomas A. Reynolds, Jr., Chicago, Illinois
for the Thomas A. Reynolds Jr. Dean's Discretionary Fund in the Law School  100,000
Russell Sage Foundation New York, New York
for survey research in the Institute for Social Research                 12,500
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation East Hanover, New Jersey
for leukemia research in the Medical School                              15,400
Charles H. and Katharine C. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
for the Charles H. and Katharine C. Sawyer Fellowship and other support in
the Museum of Art, and for support of the Schools of Business
Administration and Music                                                  6,055
Scripps-Howard Foundation Cincinnati, Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources                          27,756
Shell Development Company, Houston, Texas
for geology support in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts   15,000
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for the Shell Funds in the College of Engineering, and pledge payment for
the College of Literature Science and the Arts                          104,890
Maryanne and Ted Simmons, Chesterfield, Missouri
pledge payments for support of the Schools of Art and Education          10,000


-74 -



October Meeting, 1988


Margaret Sokol, New York New York
for the Margaret and Herman Sokol Fellowship in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies                                               10,000
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Steelcase Endowed Research Professorship in
Humamities College of Literature, Science and the Arts                  100,000
Alice A. Stoddard Trust
for the Alice A. Stoddard Scholarship in the Medical School               9,389
Charles J. Stokes, Burton
for the James D. Stokes Men's Track and Field Endowed Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics                                              10,000
Taubman Charitable Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the Program in American Institutions, College of
iterature, Science and the Arts                                        100,000
Fern J. Thurston Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                  300,000
Dr. and Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor
for the Rackham Renaissance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                        100,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the Unisys Curriculum Project in the School of Business Administration,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                          25,590
Upjohn Company, Kaamazoo
for research in the College of Pharmacy, and for Employee Matching Gifts  13,220
Freda G. Wall Trust
for the Publication Fund in the Clements Library                         39,993
Edward L. Warner, Jr. Estate
for Gifts Pending Designation                                            13,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                             5,000
Virginia P. Woodward Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                   15,000
Roy H. Ziegler, East Lansmg
Quaker Oats Company common stock; pledge payment for the Roy H. Ziegler
Scholarship in the College of Engineering                                10,875
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Applied Materials Corporation, Santa Clara, California
a reactive ion etching system for semiconductors; for the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science
Charles A. Davis, Muskegon
an electric wheelchair with battery charger; for the Department of Physical Medicine
and Rehabilitation
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
a model 64100A computer station; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science
Jay Medical Ltd. Boulder, Colorado
jay wheelchair equipment; for the Department of Physical Therapy, University Hospital
Library Management Systems, Inc., Dearborn
a Xerox 3300-II copy machine; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian
Research Center
Stroke Club of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor
therapy and test materials for the Communicative Disorders Clinic, Residential
Aphasia Program
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
approved the following Personnel Actions:


-75 -



October Meeting, 1988


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective November 1, 1988
Carol D. Surles, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Management, UM-Flint
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Harold Cruse Professor Emeritus of History and Afro-American and African Studies, reappointed
to teach a course in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, fall term, 1988
Otto Graf, Professor Emeritus of German, reappointed to teach a class in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, Winter term, 1989
William J. Horvath, Professor Emeritus of Health Systems in the Department of Psychiatry,
reappointed to continue is scholarly research in the Department of Psychiatry, October 1 1988
Herbert W. Johe, Assistant Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Architecture, reappointed
to teach a class in the College of Architecture and Urban Plannig, Fall term, 1988
James D. Prendergast, Professor Emeritus of Art, reappointed to teach a course in the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, Winter term, 1989
James H. Robertson, Professor Emeritus of English, reappointed to teach a class in the Residential
College, Fall term, 1988
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective October 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Edith S. Gomberg, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, appointed Professor of Psychology in
the Department of Psychiatry without tenure
Charles F. Koopman Jr. Associate Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, appointed
Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure
Suyu Shu, Associate Professor of Surgery, without tenure, appointed Associate Professor of Pathology,
without tenure
Paul K. Trojan Professor of Material and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure appointed Interim
Dean of the School of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, or a ten month period, September 1, 1988
Ernest James Wilson, III, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure appointed Director of
the Center for Research on Economic Development, for a three-year, September 1, 1988
The following committee appointments were approved:
Executive Committee Coll f Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearbom
Richard W. Roehl, for a three-year term, effective immediately, through August 31, 1991, vice Bernard
W. Klein, term expired
Linda E. Fisher, for a three-year term, effective immediately, through August 31, 1991, vice Donald F.
Anderson, term expired
Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Associate Professor of Judaic Studies. The
Regents approved the appointment of Lawrence Fine as the Louis and Helen Padnos
Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies for the Winter term, 1989.
Toyota Visiting Professorship in Japanese Studies. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Toyota Visiting Professorship in Japanese Studies as a named
visiting professorship, effective September 1, 1988. This professorship was made
possible by a $1,000,000 grant from the Toyota Motor Corporation.
Toyota Visiting Associate Professor of Japanese Studies. The Regents approved
the appointment of Motohiro Kondo as the Toyota Visiting Associate Professor of
Japanese Studies for the 1988-89 academic year.
Director of Institute of Science and Technology. The Regents approved the
appointment of Ronald H. Olsen as Director of the Institute of Science and
Technology.
-76 -



October Meeting, 1988


Associate Vice President for Research. The Regents approved the promotion
of Ronald H. Olsen from Assistant Vice President for Research to Associate Vice
President of Research.
1989 Henry Russel Lecturer. The Regents approved the appointment of
Richard D. Alexander, Donald Ward Tinkle Professor of Evolutionary Biology and
Curator of Insects at the Museum of Zoology, as the Henry Russel Lecturer for 1989.
Personnel Reports
Regent Power moved, Regent Waters seconded, and the Regents approved
receipt of the following Personnel Reports:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Yvonne M. Abdoo, Ph.D., Nursing
Rayhaneh Akhavan Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Helen Barcelo, Ph.D., Mathematics
Stacy G. Bike, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering
Sally A. Camper, Ph.D., Human Genetics
Victor M. Elner Ph.D., Ophthalmology and Pathology, July 1, 1988
Cordelia V. Hall, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Juda Heinonen, Ph.D., Mathematics
Yuii Hidaka, Ph.D., Internal Medicine, August 1, 1988
Debra M. Ikeda, M.D., Radiology
Todd B. Knoblock, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
John M. Koomey, Ph.D., Microbiology and Immunology
Ching Yee T. Lam, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Mark H. Ludwick, Ph.D., Psychology, UM-Flint
Robert H. Lyons, Jr., Ph.D Biological Chemistry
Gabriel M. Rebeiz, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Susan Stringer, MA., Foreign Languages, UM-Flint
Alan Tait Ph.D., Anesthesiology
Priscilla K. Tucker, Ph.D., Biology and Assistant Curator of the Museum of Zoology
Michael D. Uhler Ph.D. Biologcal Chemistry
Kim A. Winick, Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Draga Zec, MA., Linguistics
Instructor
David M. Artis, BA., English Language and Literature
Shobha V. Malviya, M.B.B.S., Anesthesiology
Lecturer
David W. Austin, D.D.S., Dentistry, September 19, 1988
J. Albert Bailey, Ph.D. History, UM-Dearborn
Ralph R. Bozell, D.D.S., Dentistry, September 9, 1988
Con K. Crider, D.D.S Dentistry, August 25, 1988
Michael R. Doctor, D..S., Dentistry
Hillel M. Finestone M.D.C.M., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, September 12, 1988
Jonathan Friendly, BA. Communication
A. Isabel Garcia, M.P.H. Dentistry
Raquel N. Gonzalez, M., Spanish
David K. Hirsh, M.D., Ophthalmology, July 7, 1988
Scott J. Hodges, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 19, 1988
Mark L. McPhail, Ph.D. English Composition Board
Jenny E. Munoz, M.D., Romance Languages and Literatures
Dennis A. Nawrocki, Ph.D., Education, October 1, 1988
Loraine A. Oman-Ganes, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Jose V. Perez, MA., Spanish


-77 -



October Meeting, 1988


Dennis D. Pollard, Ph.D., Romance Languages and Literatures
Bryn S. Roberts, MA. History, UM-Dearborn
Peter R. Sammons, D.D.S. Dentistry
Deborah S. Tracey, MA. Psychology
Luke Y. Tsai, M.D. Psychiatry, September 6 1988
Jeffrey L. Zanetti, D.D.S., Dentistry, September 9, 1988
Visiting Professor
MariaL. Assad, Ph.D. French
Daniel M. Farrell Ph.D., Philosophy
Steven W. Hurtt MlArch., Architecture and Urban Planning
Christopher H. Johnson Ph.D., History
Eric Langeard, Ph.D., Marketing
Frances E. Olsen, S.J.D., Law
A.K. Ramanujan, Ph.D., Asian Languages and Cultures
M. Alasdair Smith, D. Phil., Economics
Kenneth T. Trotman Ph.D., Accounting
Patricia D. White J.D. Law
Nissan Zeldes, Ph.D., Physics
VisitingAssociate Professor
Yigal Gerchak, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Jack V. Matson, Ph.D., Business Administration
Peter B. Morgan, M. Comm., Economics
Susan C. She merdine, MA., Greek and Latin
Vsitin Assistant Professor
Hugh H. Benson, Ph.D., Philosophy
Tobias F. Hatz, D.D.S., Dentistry, September 6, 1988
Annie Koh, Ph.D., Finance and International Business
Rammohan Pisharodi, Ph.D., Marketing
Visiting Lecturer
ZhangGouchi, D.D.S Dentistry, July 1, 1988
Martme G. Guignier, D.EA., Romance Languages and Literatures
Michel T. LeGrand, Licence d'An-glais, French
Yoshie Oguchi, MA., Japanese
Adiunct Professor
Howard Klee, Jr., Sc.D. Chemical Engineering
Richard H.F. Pao, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Salvatore Rabbio, B.M., Music
Robert E. Wade, M.Mus., Music
Joseph L. Wilson, Ed.D., Sociology, UM-Flint
Adiunct Associate Professor
Bhag S. Guru, Ph.D., Matematics, UM-Flint
Willam M. Hoffman, BA., English Language and Literature
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Neal R. Foster, Ph.D., Natural Resources, June 1, 1988
Mohamed S. Gadala, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
William J. Hartman, III, M. Arch., Architecture and Urban Planning
Claire M. Strasser, MArch. Architecture and Urban Planning
Corbin C. Wagner, B. Mus., Music
Adjunct Lecturer
Bob A. Abdrabboh, Ph.D., Economics, UM-Dearborn
Diana G. Abu-Jaber, Ph.D., English Language and Literature, August 1, 1988
Debra J. Ayala, BA., Composition, UM-Dearborn
Patricia A. Bauer, D.D.S., Dentistry
Stephen J. Bodnar MA. Composition, UM-Dearborn
Trisilpa Boonkhachorn M.A., Asian Languages and Cultures
Robert D. Brodman, M.S., Biological Sciences, UM-Dearborn
Marsha L. Bunker, B.S.N., Nursing, UM-Flint
Tirrel Burton M.S., Sports Management and Communication
Harold E. Caldwell, MA., Computer Science, UM-Flint
Andrew C. Cerniski, BA. English Language and Literature
Stuart B. Cohen, M.S.E. Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Robert J. DeCarolis, M.S., Sports Management and Communication
-78 -



October Meeting, 1988


Edmund E. Doherty, Ph.D., Psychology, UM-Dearborn
Patricia K. Downey-Kuhn, MA., Theatre, UM-Flint
Arthur J. Duffy, III, M.S., Kinesiology
Ruth F. Fitzgerald, Ph.D., Information and Library Studies
Louise W. Feymann, MA., English Composition Board
David A. Gass, MA. Education UM-Flint
Kurt D. Gillis, B.S., Economics, UM-Dearborn
Horace W. Gilmore, J.D., Law
James M. Gittleson, M.S Sports Management and Communication
Martha J. Goffe-Stoner, English Language and Literature
Michael J. Guest, D.D.S., Dentistry
Kim A. Hart, M.Ed., Sports Management and Communication
Gloria J. Jackson, BA.Ed Health and Society, UM-Dearborn
Stephen E. James, Ph.D., information and Library Studies
Christina Jose-Kampfner, Ph.D., Women's Studies Program
Richard T. Julius, M.FA., English Language and Literature
H. Tasha Lebow, B.S., Education UM-Dearborn
John S. Lesko, Jr., MA., Physics, UM-Dearborn
Todd A. LeVigne M.FA., Composition, UM-Dearborn
Jean L. Loup,M.L.S., Information and Library Studies
Mark L. Masters, MA.E., Education, UM-Dearborn
William C. Meluch Ph.D., Chemistry, UM-Dearborn
Ann Mooney, M.S.W., Social Work
Steven L. Morris BA., Business Administration
George A. Nassif, M.S., Education UM-Flint
Martha P. Norman, MA., Center for Afro-American and African Studies
Kenneth J. Pierson, MA., English Composition Board
Simone N. Press, MA., English Language and Literature
Robert R. Quiroz, M.PA., Forein Languages, UM-Flint
Scott A. Read, B.S., Division of Physical Education
Bernadette M. Regnier-Busch, BA., Foreign Languages, UM-Flint
M. Benjamin Rifkm, MA., Russian Literature
Aaron Roth, BA., English Language and Literature
Angela L. Rumfelt, M.S., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Andrea Sankar, Ph.D., Anthropology
Lewis W. Sequin, MA. Chemistry UM-Dearborn
Dorthy L. Stahly, B.S. Education UM-Flint
Daphne E. Swabev Ph.D., English Language and Literature
Afroz N. Taj, M. Phil. Asian anguages and Cultures
Ellen M. Walker, M.FA., Music, UM-Flint
Katherine P. Worthington, MA., History, UM-Flint
Kristine Zvirbulis, MA., Art History, UM-Dearborn
Clinical Associate Professor
Richard W. Dow, M.D., Surgery, August 1, 1988
Clinical Assistant Professor
Theodore E. Dushane Ph.D. Anesthesiology, March 1, 1988
Robert J. Levy, M.D., NeuroIogy, July 1, 1988
Alexander Shepard M.D., Surgery, August 1, 1988
Howard R. Terebelo, D.O., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1988
Jan D. Wallace, M.D., Pharmacy
Clinical Instructor
Jerome L. Adoree, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1988
Kelly H. Cruser D.D.S. Dentistry
George A. DeMaagd, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1988
Rodney K. Ito, D.D.S., Dentistry
Hector L. Joy, D.D.S., Dentistry
Christine S. Kelly,BA. Dentistry
Pamela M. Marcovitz, M.D., Internal Medicine, August 15, 1988
Patrick J. Nolan, D.D.S Dentistry
Lawrence M. Spillane, D.D.S., Dentistry
Gary M. Starr, D.D.S., Dentistry
Deborah A. Zahn-Simmons, B.S., Dental Hygiene


-79 -



October Meeting, 1988


PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Yubao Chen, Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn
John O. DeLancey, Obstetrics and Gynecology
T. Griffith Foulk, Buddhist Studies
Harumi Hachiya, Internal Medicine
Michael Iannuzzi, Internal Medicine
John F. Randolph, Jr., Obstetrics and Gynecology
Daniel G. Remick Jr., Pathology
Adnan K. Shaout, Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Rajiv Tandon, Psychiatry
Levi T. Thompson, Jr., Chemical Engineering
Lecturer
Janice Brady, Nursing
Henry E. Brandau, DIentistry
Stephen P. Ethier Radiation Therapy, August 1, 1988
Ellen F. Rainier, Nursing
Susan Raiselis Psychiatry
Kathleen M.M. Smail, French
Adjunct Associate Professor
Joseph F. McGrath, Mathematics
Adiunct Instructor
David A. Godwin, Psychiatry, August 1, 1988
Adiunct Lecturer
Barbara MacAdam, Communication
Clinical Instructor
Ann-Marie Bollen, Dentistry
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Sabbatical
Richard C. Adelman, Director of the Institute of Gerontology and Professor of Biological Chemistry,
with tenure, for a six-month period
Robert Axelrod, Arthur W. Bromage Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, for a
nine-month period
Frithjof H. Bergmann, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, for a three-month period
Barry A. Bogin, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, for a three-month
period
Susan S. Brown, Associate Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, with tenure, for a twelve-month
period
Robert C. Cole, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor of Business Administration,
without tenure, for a nine-month period
Dimitri N. Coucouvanis, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Holly K. Craig, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Eugene E. Decker, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, for a six-month period
William A. Ericson, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Edward M. Gramlich, Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, for a three-month period
Max A. Heirich, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, for a nine-month period
E. Philip Howrey Professor of Economics, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without tenure, for a
nine-month period
Harold K. Jacobson, Director of the Institute for Social Research and Jesse Siddal Reeves Professor of
Political Science with tenure, for a nine-month period
Lawrence L. Lohr, Jr., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, for a three-month period
Philip Myers, Associate Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Associate Curator of the Museum of
Zoology, for a six-month period
Howard G. RRush, Associate Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, with tenure, for a six-month
period
Rail M. Rammuny, Professor of Arabic with tenure, for a nine-month period
Jane H. Serman, Associate Professor of Physiology, with tenure, for a nine-month period


-80 -



October Meeting, 1988


Kang S. Shind Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Henry S. Wellman, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Duty Off Campus
Wiliam R. Anderson, Director Curator of Vascular Plants, Herbarium and Professor of Botany, with
tenure, September 26, 1988, for a two-month period
Charles L. Brace, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator of the Museum of Anthropology,
August 1, 1988, for a three-month period
Thomas E. Crow, Associate Professor of the History of Art, with tenure, for a three-month period
Robert D. Fogel, Associate Professor of Botany, with tenure, and Associate Curator of Fungi,
Herbarium, August 20, 1988, for a twelve-month period
Polly E. Szatrowski, Assistant Professor of Japanese and Assistant Professor of Linguistics,
for a nine-month period
Bruce E. Troen, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, July 1,1988, for a nine-month
period
Scholarly Activity
Susan F. Harding, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, October 1, 1988 for a nine-month
period
Extended Sick
Allen L. Shields, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Retirement Furlough
Richard E. Charlick, Associate Professor of Dentistry with tenure, for a nine-month period
Harriet C. Mills, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature with tenure for a three-month period
Louis L. Orlin, Professor of Ancient Near Eastern History and Literature, with tenure, for a nine-month
period
Charles G. Overberger, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, for a twelve-month period
Pauline F. Steele, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, for a twelve-month period
Intergovernmental Personnel Assignment
Gerald F. Linderman, Professor of History, with tenure, July 1, 1988, for a twelve-month period
Leave without Salar
Linda W. Brinn, Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn, for a three-month
eriod
France ia Clark, Lecturer, English Composition Board, for a three-month period
Lawrence T. Maloney, Assistant Professor of Psychology, for a nine-month period
Joan M. McGowan, Associate Professor of Dentistry with tenure, for a twelve-month period
Jeffrey A. Miron, Assistant Professor of Economics, for a nine-month period
William J. Quails, Associate Professor of Marketing, without tenure, and Associate Professor
of Sports Management and Communication, without tenure, for a nine-month period
Dennis E. Ross, Assistant Professor of Law, extension of leave, for a nine-month period
Richard A. Volz, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, for a
twelve-month period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Professor
Kit Fine, Philosophy, May 31, 1988
Assistant Professor
Eunice A. Bell, Nursing, UM-Flint, August 31, 1988
Dennis M. DeFoe, Anatomy and Cell Biology, September 29, 1988
Jemadari Kamara, African-Afro-American Studies and Assistant Professor of Political Science, August
31 1988
Jane M. krumlauf, Nursing, June 30, 1988
Malcolm W. Marks, Surgery, August 31 1988
Ann M. Walcott, Dentistry, August 31, i988
Instructor
Noelle C. Bowdler, Obstetrics and Gynecology, September 30, 1988
Jay H. Globerson, Anesthesiology, September 30, 1988
Jeanny Knaff, Psychiatry, June 30,1988
Lecturer
Caren E. Nederlander, Psychiatry, June 30, 1988
-81 -



October Meeting, 1988


Retirement Memoirs
No retirements were reported to the Regents this month.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
voted to approve the final degree list for degrees awarded at the August, 1988
commencement. On recommendation of the proper authority in each case, the
Regents also approved amendments to previously approved degree lists.
Financial Report for the University of Michigan for the Year Ended June 30, 1988
Vice President Womack pointed out that this is a printed version of the
report that the Regents had received in September, 1988. Regent Roach noted a
mistake on page 12 of the report: The statement that the UM-Dearborn CAD/CAM
Robotics Laboratory was financed by state appropriations is incorrect; it was financed
through private gifts. The Regents asked that an errata be prepared prior to
distribution of the Financial Report.
Schedule of Investments
The Regents received a separately-printed "Schedule of Investments" for the
year ended June 30, 1988.
The University of Michigan Hospitals' Semi-Annual Accounts Receivable Report
The Regents received information on the level of patient accounts
receivables as of June 30, 1988. Vice President Womack pointed out that there is an
increase in the days of revenue in gross patient receivables, but a decline in the days
of revenue in net patient receivables, which reflects a downward trend in the amount
of receivables. These figures are due to a more thorough review of patient records to
enable a more accurate determination of gross receivables. In response to a question
from Regent Roach, Vice President Womack said that an account is not recognized
as a receivable until it is billed. Vice Provost Zuidema explained that the increase in
the number of both accounts receivable and unbilled accounts is due to a careful
review of old charts to find charges that are billable, and not to a laxity on the part of
physicians.
June 30, 1988 Inventory of the Common Fund for South Africa Free Equity
Investments
Vice President Womack submitted the June 30, 1988 inventory of the
Common Fund for South Africa Free Equity Investments, which was valued at
$40,724,337 as of that date. Regent Baker inquired how the total return on these
investments compared to the University's other investments. University Investment
Officer Norman Herbert responded that the return on the South Africa Free
investments was.6% during this period, compared to 2.5% for the endowment fund
and -6.9% for the Standard & Poors Index. Vice President Womack observed that he


-82 -



October Meeting, 1988


expects that as the universe of stocks that meet the criteria for this fund expands, the
return will increase to more nearly approximate that of other traditional investments.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach then read the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(e) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session on October 21, 1988 at 8:30 A.M., for the purpose of consulting with
the Board's attorney regarding trial or settlement strategy in connection with
specific pending litigation.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously by all seven
Regents present.
Faculty Research Presentation
David H. O'Keeffe, Associate Professor of Chemistry and Chair, Department of
Chemistry at the University of Michigan-Flint, gave a presentation to the Regents
about his research in bioconcentration.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from Don Demetriades, President of the Graduate
Employees Organization, about the employee status of graduate student teaching
assistants.
The meeting was then recessed until the following day.
Friday, October 21, 1988
The Regents met at 9:50 A.M. in the Regents' Room, following the completion of
their executive session. Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker,
Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy, and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Holbrook, Johnson, Wilson, and Womack
were also present, as were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Brown was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and stated that the first item of
business would be the External Auditor's Report.
External Auditor's Report
Vice President Womack introduced Jerry Hooker, managing partner of Ernst &
Whinney to present the Ernst & Whinney Management Report. Mr. Hooker
introduced Paul Geiger, of his firm, who had overall responsibility for the report, and
Harold Miller, who was in charge of the Hospital, Medical Service Plan, and MCare
HMO portions of the report. He also introduced Tom Barrow, of Barrow, Aldrich,
and Company, whose firm also participated in the audit.
Mr. Geiger stated that the purpose of the audit was to review the University's
financial statements, and to issue a clean opinion on them. He noted that next year,


-83 -



October Meeting, 1988


his team would follow up on the responses made to this year's comments. He pointed
out that many of the comments in the report are related to use of computers, with
particular attention to security of data files and control over program changes. The
audit found that the controls were satisfactory, which enabled the firm to rely on
computer-generated data in performing the audit.
Mr. Miller said that his review included opinions of the UM Hospitals, MCare,
and Medical Service Plan financial statements as part of the combined financial
statements of the University as a whole, as well as separate reports on each of these
entities. In the case of MCare and UM Hospitals, thse Mey issued unqualified separate
audit opinions, and in the case of the Medical Service Plans, they issued an unqualified
review opinion. The findings were that the revenues were appropriately recorded and
the receivables appropriately stated.
Mr. Barrow stated that his firm's experience at the University of Michigan had
enabled the firm to obtain projects at other educational institutions. He thanked the
University for the opportunities it had been provided as a result o the pide University's
affirmative action policies.
Regent Roach said that the Regents appreciate the work of both firms, and
reminded them that if they feel it appropriate to have direct communication with any
of the Regents, they are encouraged to do so.
Common Stock Management of the University Endowment Fund (Franklin Asset
Management Systems)
Vice President Womack introduced Ned Joachimi, of the Wellesley Group, to
describe the process of selection of a replacement manager for Atalanta/Sosnoff, who
is being terminated as a manager for the University Endowment Fund. Following
some discussion, Regent Roach moved that Franklin Asset Management Systems be
appointed as an investment manager for the University Endowment Fund. The
motion was seconded by Regent Smith and approved unanimously.
University Bank Account
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
approved the University opening a new checking account at Comerica Bank-Detroit
for disbursement of funds related to the University's employee major medical plan.
William D. Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall Shepherd Wing Addition
University Planner Fred Mayer gave a presentation on the preliminary design for
this addition, which will be situated west of the Donald B. Canham Natatorium in the
athletic area of the campus. Regent Baker suggested some modifications in the roof
design. Mr. Mayer concurred with Regent Baker's recommendation that the design of
the roof structure of the proposed building be reviewed with the project's architect so
that it provides a better complement to the existing natatorium. On a motion by
Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents unanimously approved the
design and authorized soliciting of construction bids.
Saux Head Point Association Property
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Power seconded, that the University convey


-84 -



October Meeting, 1988


its undivided one-half interest in Parcel 1 of the Saux Head Point Association back to
the Association, in exchange for a full interest in the newly surveyed parcel that will
result when Parcel #1 is divided into two parcels of equal size. This property, on
which the University also owns two other parcels, is located on the shore of Lake
Superior, about 18 miles from downtown Marquette, Michigan. The Regents voted
unanimously to approve the transaction.
University of Michigan Hospitals Additional Treatment Rooms (2) in Radiation
Oncology
Vice President Womack explained that the lowest acceptable bid for this project
is approximately $269,000 over the construction budget, and that an analysis resulted
in no options for reducing the cost. Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Roach
seconded, that the Regents approve an increase of $269,000 to the project budget and
award a construction contract to the lowest qualified bidder, J.S. Vig Construction
Inc., of Taylor, Michigan.
Regent Roach cautioned that management should carefully monitor the
construction process, because two-thirds of the over-run allowance will have already
been used. Regent Smith pointed out that the lowest bidder, J.S. Vig Construction,
had filed a suit against the University in 1986, which had cost the University $10,166 in
legal fees. The court dismissed this case in May of 1988. She questioned the policy
and wisdom of awarding contracts to contractors who have a history of suing the
University. She cited the recent example of DeMaria Building Company, which had
been awarded a contract by the University and subsequently filed suit. While
DeMaria's lawsuit against the University was pending, it was awarded another
contract; upon completion of the second contract, DeMaria initiated another lawsuit
against the University. In her opinion, our present policy invites litigation.
Regent Nielsen said that he concurred with Regent Smith's reasoning, and
withdrew his motion, stating that the University should not enter into a contract with
firms that sue it. In response to a question from Regent Baker, Regent Smith read a
description of the legal proceedings initiated by J.S. Vig that had appeared in the July,
1988 Litigation Report. Further discussion followed about the criteria used to qualify
a bidder, and the University's liability if it were to refuse to award the contract to the
low bidder. Following further discussion, Regent Nielsen moved to table the motion
until the November meeting. President Duderstadt said that the administration would
study the policy issues involved and recommend whether to reconsider or rebid.
Regent Varner asked that the liability issue be clarified.
Reassignment of University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property
Regent Power moved, and Regent Nielsen seconded, that the Regents approve
standard assignment agreements between the University and employees Steven F.
Bolling, M.D. (for "retrograde coronary sinus cardioplegia cannula") and Henry I.
Mosberg, Ph.D. (for "delta selective enkephalins") which incorporate the standard
terms approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987. Because the parties to the agreement
are University employees, these arrangements are subject to the provisions of the state
of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with this statute:
1.  Parties to the assignment agreements will be:
a. The University of Michigan and Steven F. Bolling
b. The University of Michigan and Henry I. Mosberg


-85 -



October Meeting, 1988


2.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987 and are hereby incorporated
by reference into this motion.
The motion was approved unanimously by all seven Regents present.
Naming the Kitt Peak 2.4 Meter Telescope in Honor of Professor Emeritus William
A. Hiltner
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
approved naming the Kitt Peak 2.4 Meter Telescope the Hiltner Telescope, in honor
of Professor Emeritus of Astronomy William A. Hiltner.
CESF Report, Ann Arbor Campus
Professor Larry Root stated that his goal was to inform the Regents of concerns
of the faculty with regard to their economic status. He outlined faculty roles in
teaching, research, and service, and said that salaries represent a tangible expression
of the value the University places on its faculty members. A continuing area of
concern on the part of CESF is the relative emphasis placed on market factors in
making salary decisions. Relying too heavily on market and other external
considerations could tend to devalue teaching and service. Other issues being studied
by CESF are the extent to which housing assistance might be needed for new, young
faculty members, dependent care for children and elderly family members, and the
economic status of older retired faculty members.
Regent Power inquired about the status of a regental request for development of
a University housing policy. President Duderstadt said that the University intends to
explore a variety of issues related to housing, and expects the new provost to play a
major part in developing the report. It was agreed that the Regents could expect to
receive these recommendations by June of 1989.
1989-90 State Budget Requests, All Three Campuses
Regent Roach moved the approval of the 1989-90 State Budget Requests for the
Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Roach commented on the innovative nature of the Ann Arbor request, but
cautioned that it would require a substantial tuition increase if the state was not
forthcoming with the amount projected in the request. He stated he would not
consider any tuition increase beyond the estimated 8.9%, noting that market forces
would not tolerate any higher increase. President Duderstadt said the administration
shares his concerns.
Regent Baker observed that University operating costs are inflation-driven;
tuition is increased to cover those costs because the state government does not fully
compensate the University for increased costs. He noted that in 1960 the state
provided 77% of the University's educational costs and tuition provided the balance.
In the 1988-89 budget, the state provides only 45% of the general fund budget, with
the University required to provide the balance. It is clear that higher education has a
much lower priority in state government today than it did 28 years ago.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken and the 1989-90 State Budget
Requests were approved unanimously.


-86 -



October Meeting, 1988


Recommendations for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Resolution Regarding University Investments in Organizations Operating in the
Republic of South Africa
Regent Varner then made the following motion:
WHEREAS the Board of Regents has noted the February 2, 1988
decision of the Michigan Court of Appeals in Regents v Michigan (Supreme
Court #82674), which held that Michigan Public Act 512 of 1982 is an
unconstitutional interference with the authority of the Regents to invest
funds of the University; and
WHEREAS, consistent with their continuing policy of avoiding
investments in organizations operating in South Africa, the Regents wish to
sell the University's remaining equity investments in any such organizations;
IT IS THEREFORE RESOLVED that the Regents direct the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer to sell the University's remaining
equity investments in any organizations operating in the Republic of South
Africa, with the alternative investments selected to provide as nearly as
possible a substantially equivalent level of portfolio diversification.
IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED that such one hundred percent
divestiture shall occur as soon as prudent and practicable.
Regent Waters seconded the motion. Regent Varner reviewed the history of the
Regents' original decision regarding divestment from South Africa five years ago, and
the subsequent conflict with the state as to who had the authority to make investment
decisions. Now that the Regent's original position on preserving the autonomy of the
Board has been vindicated as a result of the February 2, 1988 decision, and in light of
current economic conditions, with many major Fortune 500 companies no longer
doing business in South Africa, and due to the cost of the University's continuing
involvement in legal proceedings regarding this issue, she believes it is time to move
forward and fully divest the University's remaining funds in the spirit of the original
decision to divest.
Regent Baker cited the original decision of the state legislature requiring
universities to divest funds from businesses operating in the Republic of South Africa
as being specifically punitive to the University; the principle is whether the University
is free to invest its own money, and this was upheld by the February 1988 appellate
decision. He felt that before voting on Regent Varner's motion, two issues ought to be
examined: the prudent man rule (the responsibilities inherent in any board in
investing its money), and the University's obligation to honor the wishes of donors of
stock as to specific investment restrictions. Regent Baker asked that the Earhart
Foundation be contacted regarding this matter, because the Regents had been
informed on several occasions that the Earhart Foundation had placed restrictions on
the investment many years before investment in South Africa had become an issue.
He added that the University's $40 million investment in the Common Fund for South
Africa Free Equity Investments had produced a total return of only.6% over the last


-87 -



October Meeting, 1988


reporting period, while the University's total portfolio had yielded a total return of
2.5% over the same period.
Regent Roach responded that the prudent man rule had been examined carefully
in 1983, and that historically, it hasn't really had much effect on the return. He also
noted that substantively, divestiture hasn't made any difference in conditions that exist
in South Africa; it is a more symbolic than effective gesture. He stated that the issue
of restricted stocks can be handled prior to their sale.
Regent Smith moved to table the motion; Regent Baker seconded the motion.
The motion failed, with Regents Smith and Baker in favor, and Regents Nielsen,
Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters opposed.
Regent Baker stated that he would be prepared to vote for the resolution the
following month, but reiterated his opinion that the Regents have an obligation to
honor the commitment made to people who give gifts to the University, and for that
reason, he would abstain from voting at this time.
The vote was called, and the motion carried, with Regents Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regents Baker and Smith abstaining.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
transportation, accommodation, and telephone expenses payable in the month of
September, 1988 totalled $201.35.
Ric ard L. Kennedy, Secrey


-88 -



NOVEMBER MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, November 17, 1988
The Regents met at 10:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Wilson, Womack, and Interim Vice President Holbrook were also present,
as was Chancellor Jones. Vice President Johnson, Chancellor Wilson, and Regent
Waters were absent.
President Duderstadt announced that this discussion of asset management
would be the first in a series of discussions of strategic issues being held outside of the
normal Regents' business meeting time. Future topics will include the Michigan
Mandate and the cost of higher education.
Investment Strategies and Asset Allocation
A. The Wellesley Group
Vice President Womack stated that the purpose of this presentation would be to
describe measures that the Regents could undertake to limit investment risk and
reduce volatility. Discussion will center on the strategies of diversifying the assets in
the endowment fund and using financial futures as a means of adjusting exposure to
financial markets and eliminating the risk of being out of the market during
transitional periods. He introduced Ned Joachimi, Chairman of the Wellesley Group.
Investment Strategies. Mr. Joachimi explained that the overall goal of
endowment fund management is for the Regents to be able to turn the fund over to
their successors with the same buying power it had when they took it over. He said
that to accomplish this, the distribution rate cannot exceed the total rate of return
minus the inflation rate. Unlike personal investment management, it is a long-term
strategy, with a perpetual horizon. In response to a question from Regent Power, Vice
President Womack said that the distribution rate is determined by the risk:reward
ratio that the institution is willing to take. The Regents have set the distribution at a
level equivalent to 5% on a current basis. Regent Power pointed out that this is a
strategic decision; the Regents could decide to alter the asset allocation to increase
the distribution rate, but that would involve more risk.
Mr. Joachimi gave a slide presentation illustrating the results of a long-term
study which compared the rates of return from the four major asset categories in order
of historical return from highest to lowest. They are small capitalization stocks, large
capitalization stocks, bonds, and Treasury bills. He described investment in real estate
as being an excellent diversification tool, yielding equity-like return with low,
bond-like volatility. Time horizons, he emphasized, also affect volatility: The longer
the time frame, the less the effect of volatility on returns.


-89 -



November Meeting, 1988


Given these facts, Regent Power asked, why wouldn't the University invest only
in small stocks? Mr. Joachimi explained that the reason the University is not investing
only in small stocks is because of the year-to-year volatility of returns.
Mr. Joachimi described why the University's decision to stay in the market
following the October, 1987 crash had been a good one. In response to a comment
from Regent Baker, that the University could have anticipated the October, 1987 stock
market crash and changed its allocation mix, Mr. Joachimi reiterated that his firm
does not believe in market timing, due to the problem of not knowing when to move
back into the market once you get out.
Atalanta/Sosnoff. Mr. Joachimi described the circumstances which led to the
University's releasing the firm of Atalanta/Sosnoff as one of the University's
endowment managers. This decision was made because the firm was performing
consistently below its peer group for six consecutive quarters. Regent Smith said that
she felt the Regents should have been apprised sooner than they had been about the
staffs concerns with Atalanta/Sosnoff's negative performance. Mr. Joachimi stated
that the firm was released as rapidly as practical after having served a very short
period of time for a manager. In response to Regent Smith's question about how
much money the University lost during its association with Atalanta/Sosnoff,
University investment officer Norman Herbert stated that the return was 2 1/2% for
the six quarter period. Regent Smith requested the exact figures, and reiterated that
some of the early concerns should have been conveyed to the Regents. Following
further discussion, Mr. Joachimi stated that he felt the situation had been handled
properly and expeditiously.
International Equities. Mr. Joachimi said that his firm was advising the
University to explore alternative asset classes, including small stocks, international
equities, and real estate. In 1970, he explained, the Umnted States comprised 66% of
the world market. By 1987, that figure had fallen to 38%, with non-United States
markets consisting of 62%. Japan is now the largest world market. The main
advantage of international equities is that they provide a means of reducing volatility
through increased diversification. He displayed a chart showing that diversification
efforts (within the 70/30 equity/fixed mix) would have increased the expected return,
while decreasing volatility.
B. The Common Fund
Financial Futures. Mr. George Keane, President of the Common Fund, gave a
presentation on the use of financial futures in the implementation of strategic asset
allocation. The University joined the Common Fund as a charter member in 1971.
For the past ten years, the Common Fund's Equity Fund has added a 2% return per
year over the market. In an effort to make the endowment fund grow faster, strategic
asset allocation was developed as a method of decreasing or increasing exposure to the
securities markets as appropriate. The key assumption of this strategy is that a
historical, "normal", equilibrium relationship exists between the relative returns of
stocks, bonds, and cash. The Common Fund's program provides an objective,
calculated means for assessing and taking advantage of the attractiveness of stock
versus bond investments at any given point in time.
The objective of this program is to be consistent over time. With financial
futures, an institution can vary its asset mix without actually disturbing its portfolio.
He described in detail exactly how this is done, through the purchase and sale of S&P


-90 -



November Meeting, 1988


500 index futures contracts and U.S. Treasury bond futures contracts. In summary, the
advantages of financial futures are less price impact, lower cost, and more liquidity
than actually trading in cash markets.
Vice President Womack pointed out that as the percentage of institutions that
participates in strategic asset allocation programs increases, the advantages to be
gained will decrease proportionately. Regent Power asked how this tactic differs from
market timing, which the Regents have consistently been advised not to engage in.
Mr. Keane explained that while market timing involves subjective judgements made by
individuals, with no ability to be consistent over time, strategic asset allocation
consistently applies a system based on objective criteria. It is a highly disciplined,
quantitative approach relying on computerized manipulations of economic data rather
than human judgement. The discipline inherent in this method is what makes it work.
Following further discussion, the meeting was recessed.
The meeting reconvened at 1:00 P.M. Present were President Duderstadt and
Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Varner. Vice President
and Secretary Kennedy, Vice Presidents Cosovich, Wilson, Womack, and Interim Vice
President Holbrook were also present, as was Chancellor Jones. Vice President
Johnson, Chancellor Wilson, and Regent Waters were absent. Vice Chancellor Arden
attended the meeting in place of Chancellor Wilson.
Death of Regent Emeritus William Cudlip
President Duderstadt began the meeting by congratulating Regents Baker and
Varner on their recent re-election to the Board. He then noted the death the previous
weekend of Regent Emeritus William Cudlip, who had served on the Board from
1964-1972. Regent Brown noted that he had served with Regent Cudlip, and that he
had been an "outstanding regent and perfectly wonderful individual". Regent Baker
said that Regent Cudlip's great contributions had been his devotion to the concept of
the autonomy of the institution, and his book, The University of Michigan: Its Legal
Profile.
Tuition Tax Waiver
President Duderstadt announced that the University's legal counsel had
determined that the recent revision of Section 117 of the Internal Revenue Code, part
of the Technical Corrections to the Tax Reform Act, provides that the entire tuition
waiver given to graduate teaching assistants can be considered nontaxable. Therefore,
the Umversity will not be withholding tax on tuition waivers. He thanked members of
the administration, the Graduate Employees Organization (GEO), Tom Butts, the
University's federal relations officer, and members of the Michigan congressional
delegation for their efforts in obtaining a successful resolution of this issue, both on
the part of the University and for higher education in general.
Asset Allocation Policy Discussion
Regent Power observed that the investment policy discussion that had been held
that morning had been extremely helpful in providing an opportunity for the board to
function in a policy manner, rather than a review of transactions manner. He
expressed a desire for there to be more sessions of that type in the future.


-91 -



November Meeting, 1988


University of Michigan Hospitals Additional Treatment Rooms (2) in Radiation
Oncology
Regent Brown moved, and Regent Varner seconded, approval of an increase of
$269,000 to the project budget and the award of a construction contract to the lowest
qualified bidder, J. S. Vig Construction, Inc., for construction of two additional
treatment rooms in Radiation Oncology. The motion carried, with six regents in favor
and Regent Smith abstaining.
Financial Futures
As a follow up to the investment strategies discussion, Vice President Womack
asked the regents to approve that:
1) Financial futures be authorized for use in the management of the
University's investments;
2) The Investment Office be directed to complete a study of asset
allocation managers who employ an overlay strategy;
3) The Investment Office be authorized to amend managers' guidelines
on a case-by-case basis to include the use of futures within a manager's stated
strategy.
Vice President Womack said that the long-term 70/30 asset allocation target
would not change under this policy. He also said that when he and his staff had
selected a particular asset allocation manager, authorization to implement this
recommendation would be sought from the Regents.
Regent Baker moved that the Regents approve Vice President Womack's
recommendation. Regent Baker commented that it protects the basic 70/30 formula,
while accommodating his concerns of providing flexibility and minimizing risk and
liability. He considers it to be a very inventive proposal, and he complimented Vice
President Womack for recommending it. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Roach asked whether the asset allocation strategy had been
recommended by the Wellesley Group. Mr. Joachimi replied that the Wellesley
Group was strongly in favor of it. Regent Roach then requested an opinion from
counsel that financial futures are an appropriate investment vehicle for fiduciaries.
Finally, Regent Roach asked for assurances that there were sufficient controls in place
to assure that the use of futures would be strictly limited to hedge transactions, and
would not be used in arbitrage, speculation, or gambling.
Vice President Womack stated that he could personally, and on behalf of his
staff and the Wellesley group, make such an assurance. Regent Roach pointed out
that managers sometimes might feel it appropriate to take a risk that others might not
agree should be taken, and he was concerned that sufficient controls existed to be able
to monitor the situation. Vice President Womack said that he and his staff share and
understand Regent Roach's concerns. They consider it one of a series of investment
tools that will be brought to the Board for consideration.
Regent Baker asked what the effect would be of a highly constrained reduction
of credit and liquidity in the economy. He said that he feels that contraction of credit


-92 -



November Meeting, 1988


availability is a strong probability, due to current economic conditions. Mr. Keane
replied that the conditions described by Regent Baker have pushed up short-term
interest rates to relatively high levels, which, in relation to the current analysis, shows
both stocks and bonds to be relatively unattractive. Thus, the majority of market
exposure at the present time is hedged out. Comparisons with similar economic
conditions in 1974 and 1981 indicate that this kind of systematic hedging program
would have prevented major losses.
The vote was then taken, and the motion passed unanimously.
Annual Report on Research, Fiscal 1988
Vice President Wilson emphasized that the University's research function is not
separate and distinct; it is closely entwined with the instructional and service functions.
Besides the research itself, the products of most sponsored research projects include
training of the junior participants and enhancement of the faculty's expertise. External
research support often plays a critical role in providing financial support for the
students themselves and for the equipment and supplies needed for them to conduct
their research projects. Undergraduate students are also increasingly participating in
research efforts, both for its educational value and for the assistance they provide.
Transfer and utilization of knowledge gained through research activities provide
vehicles for service to business and industry, government and other service
organizations, and to individuals in the state.
Eighty-five percent of the University's separately-budgeted research
expenditures are provided by external sponsors through grants and contracts obtained
through individual, small-group, and departmental initiatives at the University. In
academia, unlike in industry, individuals are responsible for developing the resources
necessary to carry out their research. The faculty, therefore, play a critical role not
only in performing research, but in developing the resources for research.
The growth in research expenditures in Fiscal 1988 was 11.9%, a rate that
substantially exceeds inflation. The number of research awards increased by 32.7% in
value and 18.2% in number during that time. It is important to remember, she
emphasized, that growth itself is not the objective. The goal is to obtain sufficient
resources to accomplish the research objectives, to pursue opportunities in research, to
provide excellent training for students, and to contribute to the well-being of the state
and nation.
One measure of research productivity is reflected in publication rates of faculty.
Vice President Wilson cited a recent study which showed that Ann Arbor is one of the
top 20 cities in terms of the number of publishing scientists, and is sixth in the annual
growth in the number of publishing scientists in the past decade. She also cited figures
illustrating increasing activity in the Intellectual Property Office, including invention
disclosures, patent applications filed, pending, and issued, software programs
distributed, and reassignments of ownership to inventors. Royalty revenue received
increased by 13%, to $831,000, and this should increase substantially as pending
patents are approved in the coming years. Other institutions have cited the
University's intellectual property policy and management as being exemplary and at
the forefront.
The University ranks fifth among public institutions and ninth among public and
private institutions in the numbers of awards received. In addition, twenty-five


-93 -



November Meeting, 1988


University faculty members have won Presidential Young Investigator Awards, for
exceptionally able young scientists and engineers, since the program began in 1984.
She also noted that William Bolcolm, a professor in the School of Music, received the
Pulitzer Prize in 1988.
Areas of focus in research administration include the attraction, encouragement,
recognition, and support of people who perform research; facilities, equipment, and
support systems for research; and formation of partnerships and alliances with other
research performers and with those who draw on the University's knowledge base.
Vice President Wilson then responded to questions about strategies for
obtaining funding, methods of computing indirect costs, and the acceptance rate for
grants submitted for funding. She said that the acceptance rate had risen from 60%
last year to 68% this year. Regent Baker commented that the overhead component of
grants received is one of the few sources available for outside revenue, and that this
highlights the importance of a high acceptance rate.
SACUA Presentation
President Duderstadt introduced Beth Reed, Associate Professor of Social
Work and Women's Studies and Chair of the Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs (SACUA), to begin the annual SACUA presentation to the
Regents. Professor Reed was joined by fellow SACUA members Edward Chudacoff,
Professor of Music; William Dobbins, Professor of Internal Medicine; R. Thomas
Lenaghan, Professor of English Language and Literature; Philip Margolis, Professor
of Psychiatry and Community Mental Health; Lorraine Nadelman, Associate
Professor of Psychology; Gayl D. Ness, Professor of Sociology and of Population
Planning and International Health; Marilyn Rosenthal, Professor of Sociology at
UM-Dearborn; and L. Yvonne Wulff, Assistant Director for Collection Management
at University Library. Kate Warner, Associate Professor of Urban Planning, was not
able to attend.
Professor Reed explained that the presentation would focus on the sense of
community within the University, in keeping with President Duderstadt's emphasis on
the need to foster a stronger sense of community, while recognizing, valuing, and
respecting differences among people. The differences and conflicts can then be used
to generate vitality and creativity within the University. The members of SACUA then
gave individual presentations illustrating how their interactions with students
accommodate these goals by helping to eliminate structural divisions.
Professor Reed then described how she and SACUA had met the challenge of
the Regents and Interim President Fleming for retaining Regents' Bylaw 7.02 by
working with students, faculty, and administrators in an effort to develop a working set
of procedures for negotiating disagreements through the University Council.
President Duderstadt said that the Regents and the administration were grateful to
Professor Reed for her many hours of work on resolving this issue. Several Regents
commented on specific procedures she mentioned, such as arbitration, that were being
considered for the University Council. President Duderstadt reminded the Board that
the final decision on all recommendations would rest with the Board.
Regent Varner pointed out the difficulty for faculty members in balancing
teaching, research, and service responsibilities. Black faculty in particular, she said,
have much greater demands on their time for service activities than do their white


-94 -



November Meeting, 1988


colleagues, and women in their childbearing years bear additional burdens over their
male colleagues. President Duderstadt noted that Associate Vice President Mary Ann
Swain has been meeting with a group that is addressing these and other phenomena
that occur as the faculty becomes more diverse. Several of the SACUA faculty
members described some programs in their departments that are attempting, on an ad
hoc basis, to meet the needs described by Regent Varner.
Aerospace Engineering Feasibility Study
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
approved a project involving construction of a new Aerospace Engineering complex,
approved the proposed site in the present aerospace complex on North Campus, and
authorized fundraising and a feasibility study to determine phasing potential and
refine cost estimates.
Cancer and Geriatrics Centers
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Power seconded a motion to approve a
planning and conceptual design study for construction of a facility to house a Cancer
Center and Geriatrics Center, and to appoint Hansen Lind Meyer/TMP Associates as
architects. The estimated total project cost is $57 million. Vice Provost Zuidema
stated that the facility would house clinical outpatient care and research components
for both centers. Fundraising would be done to finance laboratory and research
activities.
Considerable discussion followed as to the scope of this project. In response to
a question from Regent Nielsen, Vice Provost Zuidema said that one location being
considered is the present site of Children's Psychiatric Hospital. He said that
construction could not begin for at least three years, and would not begin until the
funds had been raised. Final plans would be brought back to the Board for its
approval. Regent Baker expressed concern at the heavy investment of University
resources this facility would require. Vice Provost Zuidema described some of the
programmatic funding that has already been received for both centers, including the
Cancer Center's designation by the National Cancer Institute as a national
comprehensive cancer center, and establishment by the Veterans' Administration of a
Geriatrics Research and Education Center at the University.
Regent Power asked about the wisdom of housing both centers in one building;
Vice Provost Zuidema said that combining common core functions, such as patient
administration and laboratories, could provide cost savings. Questions were also
raised about whether this project would require construction of additional parking
facilities; Vice Provost Zuidema said that it probably would. Regent Roach asked
about the impact of this proposal on the Turner Geriatrics Center and the Simpson
Memorial Institute. Vice Provost Zuidema responded that it would replace both the
Turner Building, which cannot be enlarged at its current location, and the Simpson
Building, which would have to undergo major renovation to continue to be able to
have research conducted in it. Regent Roach noted that there may be deed
restrictions related to use of the Simpson Memorial Institute Building site.
Regent Baker expressed concern that the Board was becoming less able to
exercise direct oversight of the Medical Campus, which represents a major portion of
the University's overall budget. He felt the Board should be kept better informed
about plans for the future of the Medical Campus.


-95 -



November Meeting, 1988


Regent Smith asked to have more information about possible deed restrictions
related to the Simpson Memorial Building. Regent Roach suggested that this item be
tabled until the next day.
Intercollegiate Athletics Sports Service Building
University Planner Fred Mayer introduced Associate Athletic Director Fritz
Seyferth, who described the research that had gone into designing the facility and the
impact it will have on the athletic program. Then Mr. Mayer described the
preliminary design, using an architectural model. It was emphasized that 60% of the
$12 million cost will have to be on hand, with pledges for the remainder, before the
project is let out for bidding in May of 1989.
Regent Baker said that he was not enthusiastic about the proposed architectural
design and its proposed siting for the following reasons: 1) The building's radical
color and materials are unlike any in the very complimentary, well-planned, and
attractive existing buildings in the Athletic Campus complex. 2) The building is
designed to look like a "football helmet" from a side elevation. This design confounds
the harmony established by earlier buildings in the complex. 3) Over many years,
great effort has been expended in planning the Athletic Campus. The proposed design
appears to be an effort by the architect to leave his imprint on the Athletic Campus,
rather than to continue the overall planning previously accomplished. Regent Baker
further stated that he strongly supported the idea and need for the Intercollegiate
Athletics Sports Service Building, but could not support the proposed architectural
treatment as presented to the Regents and would vote against the proposal.
Regents Roach and Nielsen voiced their disagreement with Regent Baker's
assessment. Following further discussion, the vote was taken and the motion carried
on a vote of six to one. Regent Baker stated that he was opposed on the basis of the
architectural design, which he felt was inappropriate for the location.
The meeting was then moved to the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union for
Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals, on the topics
indicated: Robert Boblett, staff member at University Hospitals, on gay rights; Robert
Morgan, citizen, on supervision at Laundry Services; Zachary Kittrie, student, on
tuition; Don Demetriades, president of the Graduate Employees' Union, on the
tuition waiver tax; and Anne Martinez, President of the Socially Active Latino
Students Association (SALSA), Carlos Manjarrez, student, Hector Garza, Vice
President of the Hispanic Alumni Council, and Barbara Argumedo, Chair of the
Hispanic Alumni Council, on Hispanic issues.
Following Public Comments, the meeting was recessed until the next day.
Friday, November 18, 1988
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, and Varner.


-96 -



November Meeting, 1988


Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Vice Presidents Cosovich, Wilson, Womack,
and Interim Vice President Holbrook were also present, as were Chancellors Jones
and Wilson. Vice President Johnson and Regent Waters were absent.
Minutes
The Regents voted unanimously to approve the minutes of the meeting of
October 20 and 21, 1988.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor
Relations. Vice President Wilson submitted monthly Summaries of a Selection of
Current Research and Sponsored Projects, and Projects Established, Research and
Other Academic Activities. On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent
Power, the Regents voted unanimously to receive the reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich filed the Report of Gifts Received and the Listing of
Gifts of $5,000 and Above for October, 1988. He said that the number of individual
donors was up by 52%, and dollar amounts of gifts were up by 55%. Regent Nielsen
moved that the Regents receive the report, and that they thank Vice President
Cosovich and his staff for having done a good job. Regent Brown seconded the
motion, and it was adopted. The following gifts were accepted with thanks and in
accordance with their terms and conditions:
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, College of Pharmacy, and Institute of
Gerontology                                                            156,406
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health               51,546
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                              5,100
American Heart Association, Inc. Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                     137,306
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Nursing                     20,595
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                      11,250
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                      14,000
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Amoco Foundation Fellowship and the Robin J. Hunter Memorial Fund
in the College of Engineering                                           19,222
Georgia Armantrout Estate
for the Everett D. and Georgia Russell Armantrout Research Fund in the
Medical School                                                         116,670
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology  46,913
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Mtedical School and in the Institute of Gerontology  36,924
AT&T Foundation New York, New York
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering         13,600
Esther Tuttle Bailey Estate
for the Michigan Historical Collections, and for unrestricted support of
The University of Michigan                                             143,392
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for unrestricted support of the Law School                               5,000
-97 -



November Meeting, 1988


A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust, Flint
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School, and for the President's fund  6,000
BNR, Inc., Research Trlangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Engineering                                    20,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for research in the Medical School                                            71,525
Carnegie Corporation of New York, New York
for survey research in the Institute for Social Research                      24,000
Centocor Inc. Malvern, Pennsylvania
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School                            9,500
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and in the Schools of
Medicine and Public Health                                                    28,833
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
for capital projects and other support in the School of Business Administration  27,500
Comerica, Inc Detroit
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program                   5,000
Cook Family Foundation Owosso
for the Cook Family Foundation Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                      10,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA., New York, New York
for pathology research in the Medical School                                  17,500
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                            23,674
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                             6,250
Detroit Edison Foundation, Detroit
pledge payment for minority engineering scholarships at the University of MichiganDear-born, and for Employee Matching Gifts                                    11,125
George H. Deuble Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the George H. Deuble Student Aid Funds in the Schools of Business Administration
and Law                                                                       10,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for fellowships, scholarships, and other support in the College of Engineering  23,500
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for the Career Planning and Placement Professional Improvement Program, and for
research in the Institute of Science and Technology                            6,500
Eastman Kodak Compan Rochester, New York
for support of the College of Engineering                                     10,000
Ernst & Whinney Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   18,880
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    15,000
Ford Foundation, New York New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and in the Institutes of
Public Policy Studies and Social Research                                    171,405
Ford Motor Company Fund Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering, the University Musical Society, and the
University of Michigan-Dearborn                                               40,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for fellowships and research in the College of Engineering                    40,000
Harry L. Freeman, Chevy Chase, Maryland
pledge payment for the I. L. Sharfman Economics Fellowship in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                              5,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering   5,000
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio
for support of the minority program and other activities in the College of Engineering  9,500
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work                                     11,374
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics      10,000
Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation, New York, New York
for psychology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts   33,320
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the William and Lois Halliday Scholarship in the Law School  20,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medica School                                              5,000
-98 -



November Meeting, 1988


William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts            140,000
Francis E. Heydt, Miami, Oklahoma
pledge payment for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics  7,000
Honeywell, nc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support of the minority program and of scholarships for females, in the College of
Engineermg                                                                    5,000
Honigman Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts         10,000
Frederick G. L. Huetwell Detroit
for support of the Medical School, Disabled Student Services, Shady Trails Camp, and
the Frederick G. L. Huetwell Scholarship                                     34,000
Hughes Aircraft Company, Los Angeles, California
for support of the College ofEngneering                                      12,500
Huron Mountain Wildlife Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Natural Resources                               9,000
International Business Machines Corporation, New Haven, Connecticut
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering              53,855
IC Industries, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the Doris B. and Frank O. Westover Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               10,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,425
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           49,706
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            7,250
Donald L. Katz Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Donald L. Katz Chemical Engineering Lectureship in the College of Engineering  20,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for theatre and drama support in the School of Music                         20,084
Kenny Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           10,623
Esther A. and Joseph Klingenstein Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Education                                      60,000
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York
for the Samuel H. Kress Foundation Fellowship in the History of Art, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                            14,000
Laboratory Research Enterprises, Inc., Kalamazoo
for support of the School of Public Health                                    8,000
W. Eugene Lane Revocable Living Trust Romeo
Tor research in the MedicalSchooi                                            10,000
Leukemia Research Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            8,255
Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           31,372
Life & Health Insurance Medical Research Fund, Washington, D.C.
for support of the Medical School                                             8,000
Monroe Lippman Estate
for gifts pending designation                                                10,000
Joseph A. Livingston, Phila elphia, Pennsylvania
Corcap, Inc., and Lydall Corporation common stocks; for the J. R. Livingston Junior
Faculty Economics Research Fund, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  9,992
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology      55,000
Marion Laboratories, Inc., Kansas City Missouri
pledge payment for the Marion Laboratories Educational Fund in the College of
Pharmacy                                                                     20,000
May Stores Foundation, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri
for financial aid and scholarships in the School of Business Administration, and in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for Employee Matching Gifts  15,100
Professor and Mrs. Paul W. McCracken, Ann Arbor
for the Paul W. McCracken Professorship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                    14,867
Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,808
Monroe Eye Associates, P.C., Monroe
for ophthalmology support in the Medical School                              10,000


-99 -



November Meeting, 1988


Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology      206,437
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research m the Medical School                                             8,250
Joseph F. Nagel Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       10,793
National Bank of Detroit, Detroit
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  25,000
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           14,292
Bertha L. Olsen Estate
for support of the School of Dentistry                                        8,000
Russell J. Osterman, Pasadena, California
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics    500,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Public Health                                 175,000
Pillsbury Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for gifts pending designation in the School of Business Administration        5,000
Quaker Oats Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      27,350
Christopher Reynolds Foundation, Inc., New York New York
for economic development research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  39,105
Mrs. Lyle C. Roll, Scottsdale~ Arizona
McDonald's Corporation common stock; for support of the Medical School       50,853
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  11,900
State Bar of Michigan, Lansing
pledge payment for theInstitute of Continuing Legal Education in the Law School  16,667
Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
for the Helmut Stern Fund in the Museum of Art, and for support of the Kelsey
Museum of Archaeology                                                        25,719
Stroh Brewery Company, Detroit
pledge payment for the School of Business Administration Library             10,000
Charles J. Trick, Livonia
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                     5,000
Constantine A. Tsangadas Estate
for Post-Classical Greek Studies in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies  7,000
Unison International Corporation, San Bruno, California
for support of the College of Engineering                                    10,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for the Burrough's Curriculum Project in the School of Business Administration, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  25,565
United Technologies Corporation Hartford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,935
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Alumni Association                                    5,500
Harold and Grace Upjohn Foundation, Kalamazoo
pledge payment for the Eye Center                                            20,000
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida Memorial Endowment in the Medical School           25,000
Warner-Lambert Company Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for psychopharmacology research in the Medical School                        10,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Aequitron Medical, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
a cardiorespiratory monitor; for the University of Michigan Hospitals
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
a draw bead simulator; for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
John A. Listopad, Ann Arbor
a collection of 250 Kodachrome slides of art and archaeological sites in India; for the Asian Arts
Project Center for South and Southeast Asian Studies
James V. McConnell Ann Arbor
a Hewlett Packard scanner with software; for the Department of Psychology


-100 -



November Meeting, 1988


Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved the following personnel actions. Regent Baker suggested that
the University inform members of the state's real estate community about the
establishment of the Stephen M. Ross endowed professorship in real estate, and about
the naming of Dennis R. Capozza to that professorship.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective December 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Dennis R. Capozza, Ph.D., Professor of Finance and Stephen M. Ross Professor of Real Estate, January
1 1989
David 1. Garabrant, M.D., Associate Professor of Occupational Health
Kenneth E. Noll, Ph.D., Professor of Environmental and Industrial Health, June 1, 1989
Yale N. Patt, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1989
Rajeev Batra, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Marketing
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Charles F. Cannell, Professor Emeritus of Communication, reappointed to active status
Robert L. Kahn, Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Health Services Management and Policy,
reappointed to active status
Leslie Kish, Professor Emeritus of Sociology, reappointed to active status
Jack W. Meiland, Associate Dean for Long Range Planning and Curriculum and Professor of Philosophy,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, reappointed Associate Dean for Long
Range Planning and Curriculum, for a one-year term, July 1, 1989
James N. Morgan, Professor Emeritus of Economics, reappointed to active status
Thomas M. Sawyer, Professor Emeritus of Humanities, reappointed to teach in the College of
Engineering, September 1, 1988
Leonard Segel, Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, reappointed to
teach a course in the College of Engineering, September 1, 1988
Herschel Well, Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, reappointed to
active status, August 1, 1988
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988
Thomas L. Schwenk, Associate Professor of Family Practice, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education, without tenure, appointed Chair of
the Department of Family Practice
The following committee appointments were approved:
Advisoryv Committee on Recreational Snorts
Ann-Marie Abundis, student member, for a two-year term, effective immediately through June 30 1990
Timothy Reilly, student member for a two-year term, effective immediately through June 30, 199d
Elizabeth L. Rolla, student member, for a two-year term, effective immediately through June 30, 1990
Honorary Degrees Committee
Michaer Lustig, student member, for a two-year term, effective immediately through June 30, 1990
Karma L. Suttles, student member, for a two-year term, effective immediately through June 30, 1990
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
June M. Howard, for Winter term, January 1, 1989 through August 31,1989, vice Enoch Brater, on leave


-101 -



November Meeting, 1988


School of Dentistrv Executive Committee
Arnold P. Morawa for a three-year term, November 1, 1988 through October 31, 1991, vice H. Dean
Millard, term expired
Charles Shipman, Jr, for a one-year term, November 1, 1988 through October 31, 1990, vice Gunnar K.
Svanberg, resigned
Christian S. Stohler, for a three-year term, November 1, 1989 through October 31, 1991, vice Ronald J.
Heys, term expired
Institute of Gerontology Executive Board
Rhetaugh E. Dumas for a six-month extension, January 1, 1989 through June 30 1989
Joseph E. Johnson III, for a one-year extension, January 1, 1989 through December 31, 1989
June E. Osborn, for a six-month extension, January 1, 1989 through June 30, 1989
School of Nursine Executive Committee
Phillip A. Kalisc, for a three-year term, effective immediately through June 30, 1991, vice Deborah J.
Oakley, resigned
Carolyn M. Sampselle, for a one-year term, effective immediately through June 30, 1989, vice Stella P.
Robinson, resigned
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters Executive Committee
Orin G. Gelderloos,for the period November 1, 1988 through January 31, 1989, vice John F. Riebesell,
resigned
David A. James, for the period November 1, 1988 through January 31,1989 vice Frank J. Papp, resigned
Roge       e  ftember.               1988 through January 31, 1989 vice Dan J. Swift, resigned
Marilynn M. Rosenthal, member-at-large, or the period November 1, 1988 through January 31, 1989,
vice Linda E. Fisher, resigned
UM-Dearbom Division of Interdisciplinarv Studies Executive Committee
William R.   Martin, to succeed himself for a three-year term, effective immediately through August 31,
1991
Edward M. Sayles, to succeed himself for a three-year term, effective immediately through August 31,
1991
UM-Dearbom School of Education Executive Committee
oseph L    es, or a three-year term, effective immediately through August 31, 1991, vice Grace
Kachaturoff, term expired
Norman Freehling Visiting Professor. The Regents approved the establishment
of the Norman Freehling Visiting Professor as a named professorship, effective
September 1, 1988. They also approved the appointment of A. K. Ramanujan as the
Norman Freehling Visiting Professor for the Fall term, 1988.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND REAPPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Stacy G. Bike, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering, cancellation of appointment previously reported
Carolyn Campbell, Ph.D. Anthropology, UM-Flint
Alan B. Douglass, M.D., Psychiatry
Thomas R. Henry, M.D., Neurology, October 1 1988
Marcial E. Ocasio-Melendez, Ph.fD., History, UM-Flint, change to appointment title previously reported
as lecturer
Dorrie E. Rosenblatt, M.D., Ph.D., Internal Medicine, October 1, 1988
Linda S. Welage, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, November 1, 1988
Lecturer
Emma L. Hives Ph.D., Information and Library Studies
Andrei IacoblPh.D. Mathematics, August 15, 1988
Donna M. Wicker, 1.O0., Ophthalmology


-102 -



November Meeting, 1988


Visiting Professor
KyungW. Cho, Ph.D., Physiology
Koichlro Fujikura, LL.M., Law
Visitin Associate Professor
Yan A. Granath, Licentiate, Architecture and Urban Planning
Gordon B. Hazen, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineermg
Visiting Lecturer
Laszlo Budai, Ph.D., Hungarian Language and Literature
Grant W. Moore, B.M., Music
Adjunct Professor
Carl F. Luckenbach, MArch., Architecture and Urban Planning
Adjunct Associate Professor
Joseph M. Valerio, MArch., Architecture
Adiunct Assistant Professor
Philip H. Bess, M.Arch., Architecture
Venkat S. Manian, Ph.D., Architecture
Gary L. Miller, Ph.D., Health Care, UM-Flint
Lorri D. Sipes, MArch., Architecture
Adjunct Lecturer
Cheryl Green, Ph.D., Management, UM-Flint
Shirley Hatchett, Ph.D., Center for Afro-American and African Studies
Cynthia R. Holzer B   B.S. Biology
E. Daniel Long,.M.E., Education
Dana D. MacDonald, B.S., Biology, UM-Flint
Lloyd D. Miller2 Ph.D., Music, UM-Flint
Raymond A. Miller, MA., Communication, UM-Flint
Douglas Mueller, BA., Theatre, UM-Flint
Marilyn K. Turner, B.S., Education, UM-Flint
Clinical Instructor II
Susan J. Laurent, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, October 1, 1988
Clinical Instructor I
Miriam E. Dushay, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1 1988
Ifeanyi G. Ebunike, B.S., Pharmacy, July 1, 1988
Jill M. Vanlette, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1988
Eric W. Warren, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 1, 1988
PROMOTIONS OR JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988
Lee A. Green, Lecturer in Family Practice, also Lecturer in Health Services Management and Policy
Janet L. Kuhn, Instructor in Surgery, also Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering andApplied Mechanics
Margaret S. Terpenning, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Patricia Van Volkinburg, from Lecturer to Instructor of Physical Education
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988
Sabbatical
Donald F. Huelke, Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, for a twelve-month period
John P. Laitner, Professor of Economics, with tenure, for a three-month period
Martin S. Pernick, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, for a three-month period
Duty off CamDus
Eliabeth A. Garofalo, Lecturer, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Neurology, for a
three-month period
Scholarlv Activitv
Gerald Gurin, Professor of Education with tenure, for a two-month period
Carol A. Jones, Assistant Professor of Natural Resources and Economics, for a nine-month period
Zulema E. Suarez, Assistant Professor of Social Work, for a nine-month period
-103 -



November Meeting, 1988


Extended Sick
Dennis F. Ellis, Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, UM-Flint, for a five-week period
Retirement Furlough
Frederick J. Beutler, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure, for a fifteen-month period
Carl D. Johnson, Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure, for a nine-month period
Herbert D. Millard Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, for a twelve-month period
William J. Oliver, Professor of Pediatrics and Communcable Diseases, with tenure, for a two-month
period
Ruth H. Strang, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, and Adjunct
Professor of Nursing, for a twelve-month period
Leave Without Salar
Roland J. Wiley, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, for a nine-month period
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Associate Professor
Arlene A. Forastiere, Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, and Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
September 30,P1988
Assistant Professor
Myoungshic Jhun Statistics July 31, 1988
Marilyn C. Pike, Internal Medicine and Microbiology and Immunology, August 31, 1988
Dennis E. Ross, Law, October 20, 1988
Instructor
Marykutty Mathai, Instructor, Anesthesiology, October 31, 1988
Lecturer
Connie M. Collins, Physics, UM-Flint, December 31, 1988
Adiunct Lecturer
Mary M. Helms, Physical Therapy, UM-Flint, October 31, 1988
Marsha M. Pabalis, Music, October 14, 1988
Change in Format of Personnel Reports
Vice President Holbrook pointed out an information item that described a new
format for presentation of monthly personnel reports. This format will eliminate the
redundancy of the current format.
Retirement Memoirs
No retirements were reported to the Regents this month.
Memorials
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
Degrees
The Regents voted to approve the tentative doctoral degree list for the
December, 1988 commencement. On recommendation of the proper authority in each
case, the Regents also approved amendments to previously approved degree lists.


*104 -



November Meeting, 1988


University of Michigan 1988 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for the Year
Ended June 30, 1988
The Regents received the 1988 Financial Report Supplemental Schedules for
the year ended June 30, 1988.
Six-Month Report on University Audits
The Regents received the six-month report on University audits. Regent Baker
informed University Auditor Carl Smith that he should feel free to talk directly to the
Regents regarding this report, if he felt it was necessary.
Establishment of a Funded Depreciation Account
The Regents tabled until the following meeting a request to authorize
establishment of a funded depreciation account for UM Hospitals retroactive to its
establishment in FY 1984-85.
University Bank Accounts
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents voted
to approve the following transactions with relation to University bank accounts:
1) Closing accounts at Credito Italiano and opening new accounts
at Monte dei Paschi di Siena in Florence, Italy;
2) Closing an account in Salmanca, Spain and opening an account
in Seville, Spain at the Banco de Bilbao;
3) Closing an account in Tours, France, and opening an account in
St. Malo, France at Credit Commercial de France.
UM-Flint Science Building
Regent Nielsen moved, seconded by Regent Power, to name the UM-Flint
Science Building for William R. Murchie. The motion was approved unanimously.
Regent Nielsen noted that the UM-Flint staff has done an excellent job of developing
community support for the Flint campus.
1015 Wall Street, Ann Arbor
The Regents unanimously authorized the University's acquisition of the
property at 1015 Wall Street, at the asking price of $190,000. The purchase will be
made with Hospitals funds, and the property will be used for a surface parking lot.
Vacant Land, Big Bay Point, Powell Township, Marquette County, Michigan
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Power seconded, acceptance of an offer of
$35,500 submitted by Lighthouse Point, Inc. for purchase of vacant land located on Big
Bay Point in Powell Township, Marquette County, Michigan, subject to a 5-year, 10%
land contract with a $12,000 downpayment and a 10% realtor's commission.
Considerable discussion ensued about the University's policies of holding, versus


-105 -



November Meeting, 1988


selling noninvestment grade real estate. Vice President Womack said that his policy is
that the University should keep land if its investment potential will exceed the
opportunity costs of keeping it. It was agreed that it would be helpful to engage in a
strategic policy discussion about University-owned real estate. This discussion will
also include marketing strategies used by the University in selling real estate. It was
decided to table this request until the following month.
Cancer and Geriatrics Centers
The Regents then returned to this item, which had been tabled the previous day.
Regent Baker stated that he now had more knowledge about the circumstances
surrounding the request for approval of a planning and conceptual design study and
appointment of an architect for a Cancer and Geriatrics Center. He said he believes
the Regents need to have a more comprehensive understanding on an ongoing basis of
both programmatic and strategic plans at the Hospital, and the resources that are
available. He wanted to be assured that in the long run the University would continue
to have the capacity to operate a sound professional and business enterprise at
University Hospitals, without undertaking undue risk. He is satisfied in this regard in
the short run, but repeated his request for a more detailed discussion of long-term
plans for the medical center complex. President Duderstadt agreed that that would be
appropriate.
The motion having been made and seconded the previous day, the Regents
voted unanimously to authorize a planning and conceptual design study for a Cancer
and Geriatrics Center, and to appoint Hansen Lind Meyer/TMP Associates as
architect.
Central Power Plant Gas Turbine and Heat Recovery System Energy Conservation
Project
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
authorized award of a contract to the low bidder, Michigan Engine Power Company,
for fabrication of equipment for the central power plant gas turbine and heat recovery
system energy conservation project.
Collaboration Technology Suite Cognitive Science and Machine Intelligence
Laboratory (CSMIL)
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Brown seconded, approval of a project to
build a Collaboration Technology Suite within space currently occupied in the
Business School. President Duderstadt said that the project represents a collaboration
between the University and Arthur Anderson, Inc., which funded the feasibility study
and has pledged funds toward construction. The motion was approved unanimously.
East University Area Central Chiller Plant and Chilled Water Loop
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted
to approve construction of a central chiller equipment room underground in the
courtyard of the C. C. Little Building, and to appoint Jickling, Lyman and Powell as
architect.


-106 -



November Meeting, 1988


Physics Department Randall Lab Renovation/Addition
This project involves a phased approach to update the facilities of the Physics
Department and the Randall Laboratory. The first step, renovation of the existing
Randall Laboratory Building at an estimated cost of $12 million, will be accomplished
over a number of years and will be funded from internal sources. The second step is
construction of an addition to Randall Laboratory. The estimated $20 million cost of
this phase will be requested from the state's capital improvements funds. On a motion
by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents voted unanimously to
approve the project and site assignment as described.
School of Social Work Building
The Regents next considered a project to construct a new School of Social Work
building on a site at the southwest corner of the intersection of South University and
East University. The project is to be funded by a combination of $5 million from
internal sources the remaining $5 - $6.5 million from fundraising by the Dean of the
School of Social Work. Vice President Womack said that there is a possibility that
some space will be added to this project for use by the Instructional Technology
Division.
Regent Power pointed out that the site for the project is a key one, representing
one of only three vacant sites proximate to central campus. President Duderstadt
explained that the site was carefully chosen because of its proximity to the School of
Education, with which the School of Social Work plans major joint outreach efforts.
Mr. Mayer noted that the 1987 Central Campus Planning Study update had identified
this as an appropriate site for new construction.
There was considerable discussion about possible reuse of existing space in the
central campus area, and of the plans underway to make improvements to the central
campus facilities and programs within the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Regent Power emphasized that the Board needs to act on the basis of underlying
policy goals, and that it is difficult to act without knowing how the overall master plan
and programmatic plans are interrelated. President Duderstadt concurred, stating
that a policy discussion of strategic and programmatic master plans for the central
campus will be scheduled. Regent Roach said that he would like the issue of re-use of
old facilities to be addressed as well. Regent Baker commented that this particular
project illustrates the commitment of the administration and the Regents to the arts,
the sciences, and the humanities. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent
Roach, the Regents voted unanimously to approve the project.
Renovations
Regent Varner moved, and Regenter Brown seconded, approval of laboratory
renovations in the Mental Health Research Institute, the Chemistry Building, and the
Ruthven Museum, and of installation of air conditioning in the Registrar's Office in
the LS&A Building. Following some discussion about how funding becomes available
for maintenance and renovations, and the necessity of allocating resources for these
purposes, the vote was taken, and the motion passed unanimously.
UM-Dearborn Environmental Interpretive Center
Chancellor Wilson then presented a proposal for a cooperative arrangement


-107 -



November Meeting, 1988


between the Regents, the Michigan Department of Natural Resources, and Wayne
County for locating an environmental interpretive center on the Dearborn campus.
The total cost would be $1,250,500. Under a proposed agreement between the parties
named above, $525,000 would be transferred from Wayne County to the University.
In exchange, the University would operate, staff, secure and maintain the
Environmental Interpretive Center and offer public access. The University must
provide a match of $237,500 through external fundraising for the Wayne County
contribution. A Natural Resources Trust Fund grant of $366,000 has been applied for,
which will also require a $122,000 match from external fundraising. Approval of the
agreement is necessary before the Michigan Natural Resources Trust Fund will
seriously consider the grant application. Chancellor Wilson pointed out several
specific features of the proposed agreement, including the fact that the University's
land will be leased to Wayne County and that Wayne County will own the facility for
25 years, after which it will revert to the University.
Regent Baker voiced several concerns with the concept of second and third
parties sharing ownership and control over University property. He said he felt the
agreement was unclear, and that the proposal represents an intrusion on the freedom
of the University to use the land in question for a long period of time. Regent Nielsen
expressed concern that the projected volume of visitors is too low, and that the
University would not have adequate facilities and staff to handle it. He also requested
specific information about the restrictions that would be placed on the property.
Regent Power pointed out that a partnership arrangement by definition involves loss
of sole sovereignty.
Regent Roach noted that even after the initial 25-year period, the Regents still
would need to seek the state's consent for any use of the land. Robert Behrens, Vice
Chancellor for Business Affairs at UM-Dearborn, confirmed this, stating that the
policy of the Department of Natural Resources is that each facility has to permanently
pledge the land for the use for which it would be funded, and its permission would
have to be obtained if that use were to change. Regent Roach emphasized that a
25-year commitment is a long time. Chancellor Wilson pointed out that the use of the
land for this purpose is consistent with the Dearborn Master Plan.
Regent Nielsen said that he wanted to be able to support the project, but that he
couldn't. He noted that the funding the University would be receiving would be
minimal compared to other costs that would be incurred (such as traffic control,
liability premiums, and staffing) and the loss of the University's control over the land.
Regent Baker reiterated that the issue is the Board's control over the property over
the long term. Regent Roach said that he felt the University would not be ceding
control to an outside agency, and that he supported the project as maintaining a
natural area as a natural area. The restraints would be in parking facilities and in
having to leave the land as it is forever. In his view, the University may not have had
to accede to some of the points in the proposed agreement. Regent Smith agreed that
the fact that the University would never be able to use the land for anything else was
troublesome.
Responding to a question from Regent Varner, President Duderstadt said that
the executive officers had shared some of the concerns that have been mentioned with
the administration at the Dearborn campus, but as they continued to support the
project, the officers support it as well. Regent Nielsen suggested that an outside
consultant be hired to explore such issues as use and traffic projections, and to
renegotiate the "forever" clause.


-108 -



November Meeting, 1988


Following a brief recess, Chancellor Wilson said she would withdraw the request
until the major issues that have been raised are settled.
Capital Outlay Request, 1989-90, All Campuses
President Duderstadt pointed out that the capital outlay request is one way the
Regents can get a view of the University's plans for its overall facilities. He said that
there has been inadequate state funding for a number of years for capital outlay.
Regent Power observed that the request provides a roadmap of the institution for
projects that have long lead plans. It represents aggressive and prudent planning on
the part of the University.
Regent Smith moved approval of the capital outlay request; Regent Varner
seconded the motion. In response to a question by Regent Baker about current levels
of state funding, President Duderstadt said that there has been a total freeze for the
past two years on capital outlay, because funding has been going into prison
construction. This means that present needs are responded to at the cost of
investment in the future. Regent Roach pointed out that the lack of investment in
campus projects has been occurring for many years.
The vote was then taken, and the Regents unanimously approved the 1989-90
Capital Outlay Request for all three campuses.
University of Michigan-Flint Academic Calendar Revisions
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved calendar revisions in the University of Michigan-Flint
academic calendars for the Winter, 1989 and Winter, 1990 terms to incorporate
Martin Luther King, Jr. Diversity Day.
Proposed Research Contract between The University of Michigan and Therapeutic
Systems Research Laboratories (TSRL)
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Nielsen, and passed
unanimously by all seven Regents present, the Regents approved the University's
entering into a research contract with Therapeutic Systems Research Laboratories
(TSRL). This contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute,
because TSRL is a small business incorporated and owned by a University employee,
Professor Gordon L. Amidon. Dr. Glen D. Leesman is also a party to the contract, as
well as an employee of both the University and TSRL. The following information is
provided in compliance with the Conflict of Interest Statute:
1.  Parties to the contract will be the University of Michigan and TSRL, a
corporation wholly owned by Professor Gordon L. Amidon.
2.  The contract to be signed is the University's standard research
contract. The University will be paid $22,712.00 in direct costs and
$13,706.00 in indirect costs. The indirect costs reflect the University's
full indirect cost recovery rates.
3.  Professor Amidon's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of
TSRL. Dr. Leesman's pecuniary interest arises from his employment
by TSRL.


-109 -



November Meeting, 1988


Proposed Contract between The University of Michigan and Vorus and Associates,
Inc. (VAI)
Regent Nielsen moved, Regent Roach seconded, and all seven Regents present
unanimously approved, the University's entering into a contract with Vorus and
Associates, Inc. (VAI) to perform tests on a proprietary ship model. This contract falls
under the state of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute, since William S. Vorus, the
sole owner of VAI, is also a University employee. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  Parties to the agreement will be the Regents of The University of
Michigan and Vorus and Associates, Inc.
2.  The proposed agreement is a standard University research contract.
There are no publication restrictions. The project will require a total
of less than one full week use of the model basin spread over an
eight month period at a cost of ten thousand dollars ($10,000). The
University will recover full indirect cost. The Project Director will
be Robert F. Beck, Ph.D., Professor of Naval Architecture and
Marine Engineering. Salary charges will be for the administrative
and technical staff of the model basin only. Dr. Vorus will not be
charging time on the project as an employee of the University.
3.  Dr. Vorus will sign the agreement as President of Vorus and
Associates, Inc. Benefits accruing to VAI and Dr. Vorus, its owner,
as a result of the success of this research cannot be determined at
this time, although VAI plans to develop the patented hull as a
commercial venture. The underlying patent on the ship model being
tested belongs to VAI. There are no direct pecuniary benefits to Dr.
Vorus from this contract.
Jean and Samuel Frankel Center for Judaic Studies
The Regents unanimously approved establishment of the Jean and Samuel
Frankel Center for Judaic Studies, effective January 1, 1989.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will be held on December 15 and 16, 1989. Regents' transportation, accommodation,
and telephone expenses for the month of October, 1988 totalled $1,690.83.
Ricard L.   nnedy,Secreta2


-110 -



DECEMBER MEETING, 1988


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, December 15, 1988
The Regents met at 10:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Vice Presidents
Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, Womack, and Interim Vice President Holbrook were also
present. Chancellor Jones, Chancellor Wilson, and Regent Waters were absent. Vice
Chancellor Arden attended the meeting in place of Chancellor Wilson.
The Michigan Mandate
President Duderstadt stated that the University's commitment to the Michigan
Mandate is the key to understanding what the University will be in the twenty-first
century. He described some materials he had distributed to the Regents, which
included the book, Workforce 2000: Work and Workers for the 21st Century, by
Johnston and Packer; a manuscript entitled "The NS&E Pipeline" by Dr. Peter House;
and an Interim Report of the Task Force on Women, Minorities, and the
Handicapped in Science and Technology entitled "Changing America: The New Face
of Science and Engineering".
He described the Michigan Mandate as "a plan to make the University of
Michigan a model of the pluralistic multicultural university necessary to serve our
state and nation in the 21st Century." Citing statistics that by the year 2000, one of
three Americans will be a person of color and 47% of school children (K-12) will be
Black or Hispanic, he said that the University's distinction will be determined in part
by the diversity of its people and its activities.
The fundamental premise of the Michigan Mandate is that diversity is a
necessary condition for the achievement of excellence in an increasing pluralistic
world. The Mandate lays out a broad, strategic plan designed to achieve long-term,
systemic institutional change. He described the goals of the strategic plan in terms of
Commitment (recognizing that diversity and excellence are complementary and
compelling goals for the University and making a firm commitment to their
achievement), Representation (committing to the recruitment, support, and success of
underrepresented minority groups among students, faculty, staff, and leadership), and
Environment (building a campus environment that seeks, nourishes, and sustains
diversity and pluralism). He then described some of the current programs in place to
achieve these goals.
The strategic objectives of the Michigan Mandate include 1) faculty recruiting
and development; 2) student recruiting, achievement, and outreach; 3) outreach (to
other institutions and K-12 systems to increase the pool of minority applicants); 4)
staff recruiting and development; and 5) improving the environment for diversity and
excellence. Each strategic objective has one or more specific strategic actions
associated with it that state a general goal, actions, and responsibility for carrying it
out. Implementation will be accomplished through the institution's leadership and


-111 -



December Meeting, 1988


organizational structure. The Mandate also includes evaluation and assessment
mechanisms.
In the Fall of 1988, total minority enrollment at the University had increased
15% over the previous year, so that minorities make up 15.4% of the Ann Arbor
campus. Percentages of each underrepresented minority include 6.2% Black (up
16%), 2.5% Hispanic (up 22%), 0.5% Native American (up 2%); and 6.2%
Asian-American (up 12%). President Duderstadt also cited statistics for
undergraduate minority enrollments, minority freshman enrollments, minority
graduate enrollments, and minority professional school enrollments. With few
exceptions, percentages had increased in all categories.
President Duderstadt said that in 1988, the University had the best minority
faculty recruiting year in its history. Other preliminary results of the Michigan
Mandate are the highest retention rates for minority students among the University's
public peers, the institution of a racial harassment policy, divestment of the
University's remaining stock holdings in companies with interests in South Africa, and
key new appointments of individuals with deep commitments to the new diversity
agenda. In summary, he stated that the plan will continue to evolve as a result of
interactions with the community as we gain experience in how to improve or expand it,
but what cannot change is the University's determination to achieve the goals of
diversity.
Vice Provost Moody commented that he believes people at the University have
adopted a new mindset; they believe that this agenda is necessary and that they as
individuals can make a difference. In addition, the corporate culture of the institution
(the norms, rights, rituals, policies and procedures) is being changed so that it is
supportive of this kind of agenda. When the institution's leadership demonstrates a
commitment, the change process is much smoother than if the commitment,
leadership, and support is not there. He commended the Regents, the University's
leadership, and the students and faculty for their support.
Student Recruitment and Retention. President Duderstadt then introduced
Robert Holmes, Assistant Vice President for Academic Affairs, Lewis Kleinsmith,
Professor of Biology, Melvin Williams, Professor of Anthropology and Director of the
Comprehensive Studies Program, and Eunice Royster, Director of Academic Services
and Programs in the Comprehensive Studies Program, to speak about student
recruitment and retention. They described efforts that have been undertaken to
interact more effectively with the pool of students of color in Michigan and to expand
the pool of new students, in an effort to establish a longer-term relationship with
students than has been the case in the past.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Assistant Vice President Holmes
said that a study done in 1983 showed that the University was getting applications
from only 30% of the qualified minority students in the state (of a total pool of 5,500
Black high school graduates). It was decided that there were students capable of
attending the University of Michigan who were not applying, and efforts were made to
increase the number of applicants from this pool.
Regent Nielsen asked about the percentage of instate versus out-of-state
minority enrollment, and expressed his concern that the University might be giving a
disproportionate amount of financial aid to out-of-state students. President
Duderstadt said that the majority of undergraduate minority students are from


-112 -



December Meeting, 1988


Michigan, but that figures might be different on the graduate level. Assistant Vice
President Holmes said that the percentage of instate Black students is higher than that
for other minorities. Regent Nielsen asked to be provided with more specific figures.
Assistant Vice President Holmes noted that for every three instate students
admitted, two enroll, and this figure does not vary over income levels. This is an
indication of the effectiveness of the University's policy that family income will not
prohibit attendance for instate students.
Professor Kleinsmith then described the Biology Study Center that he founded
several years ago in an effort to improve the performance of minority students taking
introductory biology courses. The Center has been so successful that although its use
is not required, 97% of all students use it, and overall class performance has improved
15%. Most important, the performance differential of minority students has
disappeared. The lesson to be learned, said Professor Kleinsmith, is that an increased
awareness of the varying educational needs of student populations, especially when
they are coming from diverse backgrounds, can yield educational improvements that
benefit everybody. President Duderstadt noted that improving the general quality of
education on campus is consistent with the goals of the Mandate.
Professor Williams gave a general description of the Comprehensive Studies
Program. He stated that a goal is to have minority retention programs completely
integrated into the rest of the University; they are available for all students, not just
minorities. Ultimately, he is working to improve this already effective program.
Ms. Royster said that the Comprehensive Studies Program undertakes
responsibility for the academic performance of minority students. Academic
performance, she emphasized, is not a function of gender or race, but is a function of
preparation, experience, and expectations. The emphasis of this program focuses on
academic performance and intellectual development of students. A major thrust has
been to increase faculty involvement in the program. The program has resulted not
only in an increase in the number of students who have gone on to higher level
programs, but in an increase in the academic performance of those students. She cited
examples of two mathematics classes in which students in the Comprehensive Studies
Program had the highest academic performance of all of the classes.
Regent Roach asked about the differential in attrition rates between minority
and nonminority students, stating that he was concerned that the gap has widened.
Assistant Vice President Holmes pointed out that it is important to look at the results
over time, grouping several years of freshmen classes together and not year-to-year
variations. Viewed in this way, the attrition rates have not increased. He noted that
efforts are underway to get a better sense of why students leave or stay at the
University.
Regent Baker asked whether the pool of minority students would be increased if
their K-12 preparation were improved. Assistant Vice President Holmes responded
that the Mandate implies that what is important are issues of student-institutional fit
and student institutional connectivity, at both the University level and at the K-12
level. Vice Provost Moody said that the K-12 component is important, and that the
Superintendents' Forum is developing programs that deal with such issues as teaching
and learning styles that might help improve the quality and quantity of education that
students receive. The forum represents a cooperative effort between the University
and the K-12 institutions, where each sector receives feedback on its efforts from the


-113 -



December Meeting, 1988


other. President Duderstadt noted that in a meeting he had attended with
President-elect George Bush, the President-elect stressed the link between higher
education and K-12 education, and that attention needs to be paid to the quality of
K-12 education. The importance of this was also cited in a recent study by the
Business-Higher Education Forum, chaired by Frank Rhodes of Cornell University
and Donald Peterson of the Ford Motor Company.
Next, Professor James S. Jackson, Associate Dean for Graduate Student
Recruitment and Retention, spoke about programs underway to increase the number
of minority students who pursue graduate education. He then addressed the area of
faculty recruitment, and described new programs at the University that are tied to the
specific difficulties of minority faculty.
Sue Rasmussen, Affirmative Action Compliance Officer, spoke on behalf of
Interim Director of Affirmative Action Mary Ann Swain about recruitment of
noninstructional personnel. She mentioned a number of staff recruitment programs
that are in use throughout the University to increase the recruitment of minority
personnel.
Regent Varner asked whether Black graduate students are still concentrating in
the field of education. Professor Jackson responded that the majority of minority
students enter the social sciences, and that this trend holds true across the country.
Regent Varner commented that she hoped that this situation would change. She also
said that she believes that Michigan residents are glad to see the leadership and
priorities demonstrated by the Michigan Mandate, and she was pleased at President
Duderstadt's initiative.
President Duderstadt concluded the discussion by noting that the challenge of
the Michigan Mandate represents the challenge to American society as we face the
twenty-first century.
The meeting then recessed for lunch.
Thursday, December 15, 1988
The meeting reconvened at 1:00 P.M.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, Womack, and Interim Vice President Holbrook
were also present. Chancellor Jones and Chancellor Wilson were absent. Vice
Chancellor Arden attended the meeting in place of Chancellor Wilson. Chancellor
Jones arrived at 1:25 P.M.
Minutes
Approval of the Minutes of the meeting of November 17 and 18, 1988 was
deferred until the next meeting.


-114 -



December Meeting, 1988


Reports
Litigation. Regent Smith asked for further information about the case of
Regents v R J. Kinkel and Norma Josef.
Plant Extension. In response to a question from Regent Power about the fact
that the renovation component of the Maternal and Child Health Center is
substantially over budget, Vice Provost Zuidema stated that Hospital officials are
currently assessing whether it would be more cost effective to renovate or replace
Women's Hospital, and that a recommendation to the Regents would be forthcoming
before any decision is made.
The Regents also received monthly reports on Investment Transactions,
Personnel-Labor Relations, Summaries of a Selection of Current Research, and
Projects Established, November, 1988.
Michigan Student Assembly Presentation
Vice President Johnson introduced Michigan Student Assembly president Mike
Phillips. Mr. Phillips stated the MSA presentation would address the Michigan
Student Assembly's role in making The University of Michigan a multicultural society.
He introduced Paul White, Chair of the International Student Affairs Committee, and
Delroe Harris, Chair of the Minority Affairs Commission.
Mr. White informed the Regents of some of the activities of the International
Student Affairs Committee. One of these was sponsoring a delegation of students
from the Philippines, for whom the committee sponsored a reception and trip to hear
a speech by Geraldine Ferraro on campus. He mentioned that international students
need to be made to feel more a part of the University community, and that they have a
lot to add in the quest for a pluralistic society.
Regent Smith asked how many students came to the lecture by Geraldine
Ferraro, and how much the lecture cost MSA. Mr. Phillips responded that half of the
expenses for the symposium at which Ms. Ferarro spoke were donated by the
executive officers. Ms. Ferraro's fee was $14,000, and the symposium at which she
spoke cost approximately $30,000. President Duderstadt said that the money from the
executive officers was pieced together from a number of sources. Vice President
Johnson explained the process through which MSA can request additional funds from
executive officers, who judge each individual request on its merits. President
Duderstadt noted that a total of about $69,000 is provided to Vice President Johnson's
office for the funding of student projects. Vice President Johnson noted that each
request is carefully considered on its merits prior to deciding whether or not to fund it.
Regent Baker inquired whether such funding was available from the executive officers
for all student groups. President Duderstadt replied that funding was available on a
case-by-case basis.
Delroe Harris, Chair of MSA's Minority Affairs Commission, addressed the
Regents next about the function of the Minority Affairs Commission. This group
works with the minority community to find out what their concerns are and to bring
them to the appropriate parties for resolution. The commission deals with issues that
are important for the entire minority community; he emphasized that "minority" does
not just mean "Black". Commission members have regular meetings with Vice Provost
Moody and other members of the administration in an effort to address concerns


-115 -



December Meeting, 1988


within the minority student community about support from administration and staff.
The commission also is working to improve communication between minority faculty
and minority staff about their feelings with regard to student issues. He concluded by
mentioning that a particular concern of commission members is an incident that
occurred earlier in the year at Michigauma.
Following some discussion about the composition and activities of the Minority
Affairs Commission, President Duderstadt commended Mr. Harris and the
commission for working to improve relations between students and the administration.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Report of Gifts Received and the Listing
of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for November, 1988. The following gifts were accepted
with thanks and in accordance with their terms and conditions:
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School and in the College of Pharmacy            83, 204
American Cyanamid Company, Wayne, New Jersey
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                                5,075
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, and in the Division of Physical Education  92,620
Anonymous Donor
for Chinese Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                           10,167
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts   50,950
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for support of the College of Engineering                     20,000
Bell-Northern Research, Ltd. Ottawa, Ontario, Canada
for research in the College of Engineering                                   25,000
Russell E. Carlisle, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
Kroger Company common stock; pledge payment for unrestricted support of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                  5,988
Carnegie Corporation of New York, New York
for post-graduate training in the Medical School                            130,000
Centra/Prmcipals Development Fund, Sterling Heights
for the Merle Lawrence Professorship and other support in the Medical School  10,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           10,875
Cigna Foundation, Hartford, Connecticut
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts   5,000
Harold Cooper, Los Angeles, California
for the Hal Cooper Scholarship in the School of Music                        10,000
Albert C. Dames Estate
for the Albert C. Dames Memorial Scholarship                                  5,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for support of the College of Engineering, and pledge payment for the Paul W.
McCracken Professorship in the School of Business Administration             21,500
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for the Dow Occupational Fellowship in the School of Public Health, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      28,449
Arthur W.Ehrlicher, Sarasota, Florida
pledge payment for meeting space restoration and furnishing for the School of
Information and Library Studies                                              30,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  12,600
Mitchell Feldman Estate
for the Mitchell and Helen Feldman Fund in the Medical School                25,000
First of America Bank-Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                    5,000


-116 -



December Meeting, 1988


Ford Motor Company, Fund, Dearborn
for student financial aid in the School of Business Administration           12,500
Ford Motor Company Dearborn
for support of the Schools of Art, and Business Administration                9,000
Fruehauf Corporation, Detroit
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  10,000
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship                              6,703
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources                              10,000
Great Lakes Bancorp, Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                                10,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Northbrook, Illinois
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics      20,000
GTE Foundation Stamford, Connecticut
for fellowships and scholarships in the School of Business Administration    20,000
GTE Products Corporation, Camillus, New York
for support of the College of Engineering                                    10,000
Indian Trail Charitable Foundation, Inc., Harrison, New York
for the Bertram Askwith Fund, and for support of the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 11,000
Marjorie M. Jackson, Ann Arbor
for research in the Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations               5,000
Jacobson Stores Realty Company, Jackson
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program                  5,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso1 Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds m the School of Dentistry        10,000
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
pledge payment for the Paul W. McCracken Professorship in the School of Business
Administration                                                                8,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health                                  11,712
Kalamazoo Foundation Civic Fund, Kalamazoo
for the Crosby-Kahn Neurosurgery Professorship in the Medical School         10,000
W.K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Cree
for research in the School of Information and Library Studies                41,900
John G. Kirk, Santa Barbara, California
for the Lawton Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Max S. Klein, Southfield
for support of the University of Michigan Cancer Center, in honor of Dr. James A.
Knol                                                                         20,000
Knape & Vogt Manufacturing Company Grand Rapids
for the ManufacturingForum in the School ol Business Administration           5,000
Brian C. Kuttner, Saline
for support of the College of Engineering                                     8,500
Little Family Foundation, Providence, Rhode Island
for the Little Family Foundation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration  7,500
Judd D. Malkin, Chicago, Illinois
for the Stephen Ross Professorship in the School of Business Administration   5,000
Martin Marietta Energy Systems, Inc., Oak Ridge Tennessee
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Mazda (North America), Inc., Irvine, California
for automotive transportation research in the Institute of Science and Technology  10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                     8,707
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur B. McWood, Jr., Harsens Island
for the Alumni Association Camp Building Fund                                 5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the Global Leadership Development Frogram in the School of Business
Administration                                                               20,000
John E. Missimore Estate
for the John and Norma Missimore Endowed Scholarship                        307,314
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Kalamazoo
pledge payments for the School of Business Administration, the College of
Engineering, and the Department of Athletics; and support for the Clements
Library                                                                     129,000
Lluella Morey Murphey Foundation, Los Angles California
pledge payment for student aid in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
in memory of Dean Joseph A. Bursley                                          10,000


-117 -



December Meeting, 1988


William K. Najjar, Grand Rapids
American Cyanamid common stock- pledge payment for the William K. and Mary
Anne Naiar Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry                          101,750
Dorothy Navle Annuity Trust
for support of the School of Business Administration                          11,699
N.C.R. Corporation, Dayton, Ohio
for research in the Institute of Science and Technology                       20,000
Terrence G. Perris, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Potter Stewart Memorial Scholarship and other support in the Law School  15,000
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Pew Scholars Program in the Biomedical Sciences in the Medical School  6,442
PPG Industries, Inc. Allison Park, Pennsylvania
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Procter & Gamble Fund Cincinnati Ohio
for gifts pending designation fund                                            60,000
John F. Rice trust
for the John F. and Martha M. Rice Scholarship in the Law School             138,352
Robert V. Rossa, Harrison, New York
various corporate common stocks; pledge payment for the Robert V. Rossa Graduate
Student Support Fund in the College ofLiterature, Science, and the Arts       80,800
Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Stephen Ross Real Estate Professorship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               100,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for political studies research in the Institute for Social Research           20,000
Sara Lee Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
for gifts pending designation in the School of Business Administration        25,000
Schlumberger Foundation, fnc., New York, New York
for the Schlumberger Foundation Collegiate Scholarship in the College of Engineering  21,000
Roland K. Schuholz, Detroit
Kraft, Inc., common stock; for the Roland K. Schuholz Medical Research Fund   20,625
Fred F. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                         9,251
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston Texas
for fellowships and other support in the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                         50,000
Ronald R. Shepherd, Pasadena, California
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                     15,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for support of the Medical School                                             12,904
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for survey research in the Institute for Social Research                      63,000
Thomas H. Snyder, Wilmette, Illinois
pledge payment for the Wildman Harrold, Allen & Dixon Scholarship, and gift for
unrestricted support of the Law School                                         9,625
Society for Conservation Biology, Bozeman Montana
for support of the School of Natural Resources                                15,000
SPX Corporation, Muskegon
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Sycamore Fund, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment and other support for the School of Business Administration     5,500
Theragenics Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia
for chemotherapy research in the Medical School                               15,000
Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
pledge payment for support of the Medical School                               5,000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for chemical sciences facilities in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  600,000
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine, and the College
of Pharmacy                                                                    5,800
William A. Vignetto Trust
for research and other support in the Medical School                          41,798
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for the Warner-Lambert Funds in the College of-Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and the College of Pharmacy                                                   11,000
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarships in the School of Education, and in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                          12,970
-118 -



December Meeting, 1988


Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Endowed Scholarship in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration         5,000
William F. Wolff III, New York, New York
pledge payment and other support for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,200
Bernice B. Woods Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                     368,373
Kathryn Dineen Wriston, New York, New York
Kraft Inc., common stock; for the Robert E. and Carolyn B. Dineen Scholarship, and
cash gift of $1,000 for unrestricted support of the Law School              31,256
Stanley Zax, Beverly Hills, California
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                  10,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computers, Inc., Rolling Meadows Illinois
five complete MAC II computers; bor the Center for Performing Arts and Technology in the School
of Music
E.D.S., Troy
47 manuals on computer software; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of
Computing Services
Mr. and Mrs. Athur W. Ehrlicher Sarasota, Florida
an antique music box; for the Stearns Collection of Musical Instruments
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth T. Johnson, Jamestown, New York
a solid oak desk; for the Law School
Kelly Services, Inc., Troy
100 IBM, DOS 3.3 manuals; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Department of Computing
Services
Barry M. O'Connors, Ann Arbor
volume 1 - 15 (complete) of the journal, Acarologia: for the University Library
Personnel Actions
Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs. President Duderstadt
recommended that the Regents approve the appointment of Charles M. Vest,
Professor of Mechanical Engineering, as Provost and Vice President for Academic
Affairs, effective January 1, 1989. On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by
Regent Varner, the Regents unanimously approved this appointment.
President Duderstadt complimented Interim Vice President for Academic
Affairs Robert Holbrook for the skill, perspective, effectiveness, and wisdom with
which he has carried out his duties for the past several months.
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective February 1, 1989
Patricia F. Waller, Ph.D., Director and Research Scientist, University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute Associate Professor of Public Health Policy and Administrations without
tenure, School of Public Health, and Adjunct Professor of Psychology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, for a five-year term


-119 -



December Meeting, 1988


REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Paul C. Boylan, Dean of the School of Music and Professor of Music, reappointed Dean of the School of
Music and Professor of Music, for a five-year term, July 1, 1989
Thomas J. DeKornfeld, Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology and Professor Emeritus of Postgraduate
Medicine and Health Professions Education, reappointed to continue teaching and patient care
activities in the Department of Anesthesiology for a one-year period
Gerald P. Hodge, Professor Emeritus of Medical and Biological Illustration and Professor Emeritus of
Art, reappointed to teach in the Department of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions
Education, for a one-year period
Paul W. McCracken, Edmund Ezra Day Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Business
Economics and Public Policy, reappointed to serve as a member of the advisory committee for the
Ford Motor Company History Project, for a one-year period
Frank B. Womer, Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to continue work with the Michigan
School Testing Conference, for a one-year period
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Daniel E. Atkins III, Associate Dean of the College of Engineering and Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, appointed Interim Dean of the College of Engineering, for a
one-year term
Robert Funaro, Director of Orientation, Student Affairs, UM-Dearborn, appointed Interim Dean,
Student Affairs, UM-Dearborn, November 14, 1988
Richard Hill-Rowley, Assistant Professor of Resource and Community Science, appointed Acting Chair
of the Department of Resource and Community Science, UM-Flint, for the Winter term, 1989
Charles M. Vest, from Dean of the College of Engineering and Professor of Mechanical Engineering to
Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs and Professor of Mechanical Engineering
Charles T. Weber, Associate Professor of Economics with tenure, appointed Acting Chair of the
Department of Economics, UM-Flint, for the Winter term, 1989
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Sudipto Bhattacharya, Professor of Finance, with tenure, extension of leave of absence, September 1,
1989 - May 1,1990
The following committee appointments were approved:
School of Art Executive Committee
R. Dwayne Overmyer, effective immediately through August 31, 1989, vice Judith A. Moldenhauer,
resigned
Georgette M Zirbes, for the period January 1, 1989 through April 30, 1989, vice Kenneth W. Baird, on
sabbatical
College of Engineerin ExecutiveCommittee
Fawwaz T. UIaby for the period January 1, 1989 through December 31, 1989, vice Arch W. Naylor, on
sabbatical
Military Officer Education Committee
James E. Beute student member, for a one-year term, effective immediately through June 30, 1989
Laura E. Russell, student member, for a one-year term, effective immediately through June 30, 1989
Advisory Committee on Recreational Sports
Gus Teschke, student member, for a two-year term, effective immediately through June 30,1990
UM-Dearbomrn School of Management Executive Committee
William H. Culp, for a one-year term, effective immediately through August 31, 1989, vice Victor
Streeter, term expired
A. Richard Krachenberg, for a three-year term, effective immediately through August 31, 1991, vice D.
Ross Cowan, term expired


-120 -



December Meeting, 1988


George Granger Brown Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering. The
Regents approved the appointment of Jennifer J. Linderman as the George Granger
Brown Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering for a two-year term, effective
January 1, 1989.
Visiting Goebel Professor of Aerospace Engineering. The Regents approved
the appointment of Konstantin Lurie as the Visiting Goebel Professor of Aerospace
Engineering for a six-month term, effective December 1, 1988.
Thomas S. Monaghan Visiting Associate Professor. The Regents approved the
appointment of Thomas L. Schumacher as the Thomas S. Monaghan Visiting
Associate Professor in Architecture for the Winter term, 1989.
William Haber Professorship of Modern Jewish History. The Regents approved
the establishment of the William Haber Professorship of Modern Jewish History as a
named professorship in the Department of History and the Jean and Samuel Frankel
Center for Judaic Studies, effective January 1, 1989. Regent Roach noted that
Professor Haber had been an outstanding faculty member in the Department of
Economics for many years, and later, a noted dean and administrator. He recalled
Professor Haber's one-sentence summary of economics: "If your outgo exceeds your
income, the outcome is your downfall."
Correction to Previously Approved Appointment. The Regents corrected the
previously approved appointment title for Yale N. Patt from Associate Professor to
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, effective
December 1, 1988.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following personnel reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Instnructor
Joan Kotun, M.D., Psychiatry, November 1, 1988
Lecturer
Arthur Greenspoon, M.Sc., Mathematics
Josephine Z. Kasa-Vubu, Docteur en Med, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, December 1, 1988
Karen F. Stein Ph.D., Nursing
Seth A. Warschausky, MA., hysical Medicine and Rehabilitation, October 1, 1988
Clinical Instructor II
Mrinalini Sehgal, M.B.B.S., Internal Medicine, September 19, 1988
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1988
William G. Mitchell, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Corporate Strategy, September 1, 1988
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Jack G. Modell, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry October 1, 1988
Judith M. Wismont, from Instructor to Lecturer of Nursing, September 1, 1988


-121 -



December Meeting, 1988


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Sabbatical
Stanley Berent, Associate Professor of Psychology with tenure, and Associate Professor of Neurology
and Psychology, without tenure, October 5, 1988, for a six-month period
Leave without salary
Martha B. Ahiaga, Lecturer in Mathematics, November 15, 1988, for six-weeks
Martha M. Wnght, Instructor of Ophthalmology, November 1, 1988, for a three-month period
Retirement Furlough
William M. Mikkelsen, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, July 1, 1988, for a one-year period
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Yeheskel Hasenfeld, Social Work, with tenure, also Professor of Sociology, without tenure
Associate Professor
Gary D. Langolf, Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure
Assistant Professor
George F. Atweh Internal Medicine, November 6, 1988
Devendra R. Deshmukh, Biological Chemistry, October 31, 1988
Lecturer
Douglas A. Read, School of Dentistry
Retirement Memoirs
On a motion by Regent Baker, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Frederick L. W. Bartman, Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science and
Professor of Aerospace Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on
December 31, 1988, after 40 years as a distinguished educator and researcher.
Professor Bartman received his B.S.E.E. degree from the University of
Wisconsin in 1941, his M.S.E.E. degree from Stevens Institute of Technology in 1945,
his M.A. degree in mathematics from The University of Michigan in 1951, and his
Ph.D. degree in meteorology and instrumentation and control engineering from The
University of Michigan in 1967. He first joined the University staff in 1948 as a
research engineer; he was promoted to associate professor in the Departments of
Aerospace Engineering and Meteorology and Oceanography in 1967 and professor in
1973. Professor Bartman served as acting chairman of the Department of
Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences from 1973-74 and was director of the High
Altitude Engineering Laboratory from 1970-80. He was honored with the Outstanding
Teacher Award in the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science for 1984-85.
Professor Bartman was one of the original members of the Aeronomy Program
Committee, a program that in 1975 was to merge with the Department of Meteorology
and Oceanography and which, today, is one of the strongest in the country. He has
served on the Senate Advisory Review Committee, the Budget Priorities Committee,
the School of Education Review Committee, and several College of Engineering and
departmental committees.
One area of Professor Bartman's research has involved the measuring of upper
atmospheric winds, temperature, and pressure using V2 Aerobee sounding rockets at
White Sands Proving Grounds and later at Fort Churchill. Another research focus has
-122 -



December Meeting, 1988


been measuring radiation in the upper atmosphere from high altitude balloons.
Professor Bartman's seminal studies of atmospheric infrasound and infrasound from
meteor trails demonstrated that sub-audible sound waves from meteors entering the
atmosphere could be detected and used to remotely infer temperatures and winds in
the upper atmosphere. His recent work has focused on the Earth's albedo, radiation
budget modeling, and circumsolar radiation.
Since 1981, Professor Bartman has been responsible for an aerospace design
course, during which time students have designed and built a payload experiment to fly
in the space shuttle under NASA's "Getaway-Special" Program. This ongoing project
will culminate in about two years, when the payload will be carried aloft in the shuttle.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher by naming
Frederick L. W. Bartman Professor Emeritus of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science
and Professor Emeritus of Aerospace Engineering.
Charles W. Cares, Jr., Professor of Landscape Architecture in the School of
Natural Resources and Director of Nichols Arboretum, retired from active faculty
status on May 31, 1986.
Professor Cares received his A.B. degree from Allegheny College in 1939, his
B.S. degree from Michigan State University in 1950, and his M.S.A. degree from
Harvard University in 1958. He joined The University of Michigan faculty in 1959 as
associate professor of landscape architecture and was promoted to professor in 1964.
In 1974, he was appointed director of Nichols Arboretum; he served in that role until
his retirement on May 31, 1986.
In addition to his responsibilities as a faculty member and a registered
landscape architect, Professor Cares managed the Arboretum for more than a decade.
Designed by the illustrious landscape architect Ossian C. Simonds around the turn of
the century, the Arboretum is a facility of historical importance representing the
highest level of design of the 19th century. Several of its floral collections are unique
to the United States. Long viewed as a treasured resource by the University and Ann
Arbor communities, it was under Professor Cares' direction that the Arboretum
moved from a period of acquisition toward its present and increasing importance as a
research and educational facility. Professor Cares understood and cultivated the
delicate balance between beauty, education, and usefulness which is the hallmark of
today's Nichols Arboretum.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher, administrator, and counselor
by naming Charles W. Cares, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Landscape Architecture and
Director Emeritus of Nichols Arboretum.
William T. Carter, Jr., the Catherine B. Heller Professor of Art, will retire from
active faculty status on December 31, 1988, after a productive career as an interior
designer, teacher, and architect.
Professor Carter received his A.B. degree in architecture from The University of
Michigan in 1952. He became a registered architect in the state of Michigan in 1956,
and practiced professionally in Detroit with Albert Kahn, Inc., Suren Pilafian, Victor
Gruen Associates, Joseph St. Cyr, and Ford and Earl Design Associates, Inc.
Subsequent experience included private practice and consulting in space planning and
interior design for residential, commercial, and institutional projects.
In 1964, Professor Carter joined the former College of Architecture and Design
as an assistant professor of art; he was named associate professor in 1965 and
professor in 1967. He taught visualization and three-dimensional design, as well as
interior design. Under his leadership, the interior design program flourished. He has
served on the School of Art Executive Committee and as faculty representative to the
Senate Assembly.


-123 -



December Meeting, 1988


A Rackham grant recipient, Professor Carter traveled extensively in Europe
over the years, undertaking design research. In 1987, he became the fourth recipient
of the Catherine B. Heller Faculty Professorship, continuing the same high standards
set for this award by its previous recipients.
The Regents now salute this distinguished designer and architect for his
contributions and dedicated service by naming William T. Carter, Jr., Catherine B.
Heller Professor Emeritus of Art.
Eva L. Mueller, Professor of Economics and Research Scientist in the
Population Studies Center and Center for Research on Economic Development, will
retire from active faculty status on December 31, 1988, after a most productive career
as a teacher and researcher.
A native of Germany, Professor Mueller became a naturalized citizen in 1944.
She received her B.A. degree from Smith College in 1942, her M.A. degree from New
York University in 1945, and her Ph.D. degree from Harvard University in 1951.
From 1951-68, Professor Mueller was on the staff of the Survey Research
Center at the Institute for Social Research. She joined the Department of Economics
in 1957 as an assistant professor; she was promoted to associate professor in 1960 and
to professor in 1964. Since 1968, she has also been affiliated with the Center for
Research in Economic Development and the Center for South and Southeast Asian
Studies, and in 1970, she accepted an additional appointment in the Population
Studies Center. From 1974-78, Professor Mueller served as associate dean in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
For several years, Professor Mueller has directed the NIH-sponsored Economic
Training Program in Economic Demography, which has attracted many of the
brightest students in the Ph.D. program in economics. Several of the department's
most successful female students have been recruited into the program. They were
attracted by the setting Professor Mueller created, which was encouraging and
supportive, and in which Professor Mueller herself has acted as an extraordinary role
model.
Professor Mueller has conducted exciting and important research in the area of
fertility and female labor supply in developing countries. Some of her work has been
conducted under the auspices of the World Bank and the U.S. Agency for
International Development, taking her to India, Thailand, Brazil, and Botswana.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and researcher for her
dedicated service by naming Eva L. Mueller Professor Emeritus of Economics.
Patricia A. O'Connor, Associate Professor of Dentistry, retired from active
faculty status on November 30, 1988.
Professor O'Connor received her A.B. degree, magna cum laude, from Radcliffe
College in 1951. Later that year she came to The University of Michigan, where she
earned her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in 1952 and 1959, respectively. While working
toward her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees, Professor O'Connor served as a teaching
assistant, research assistant, teaching fellow, and research associate in the Department
of Psychology. From 1960-63, she continued as a research associate on two funded
projects. For the next five years she was a lecturer in psychology, after which she
spent two years away from the University (1968-70) to complete work on a text, and to
design and conduct research on intellectual curiosity.
Professor O'Connor came to the School of Dentistry in 1970, first as a research
associate, then as a senior research associate, to develop methods for individualizing
courses in preclinical dentistry. She trained and directed a team of four instructional
developers for a five-year, federally-funded development project, and served as a
consultant to the faculty on instruction, educational research, student evaluation,


-124 -



December Meeting, 1988


motivation, product evaluation, and instructional technology. Since 1978, she has been
an associate professor in the Department of Educational Resources, designing,
developing, and presenting materials to improve clinical teaching. She has also taught
courses to dental and dental hygiene students, and has served on the committees of
several M.S. and Ph.D. candidates. In addition to these responsibilities, Professor
O'Connor has continued her research efforts as principal investigator or co-principal
investigator on a number of grants. Her long list of publications testifies to the value
of her work to educators in dentistry and other health care fields, as well as other
educational researchers.
Over the years, Professor O'Connor has donated time to membership on various
School of Dentistry committees, including those on admissions, human subjects,
faculty development, and student evaluation. She has also been an evaluation
consultant for two videotapes developed through the school and funded by the
Women's Educational Equity Act Program.
An active member of her profession, Professor O'Connor belongs to the
American Association of Dental Schools, the American Educational Research
Association, the American Psychological Association, and Sigma Xi (a scientific
research honorary society). She has also been a consultant to the National Specialty
Board in Orthodontics in its revision of methods for evaluation of candidates, a
principal developer of the Science of Clinical Teaching for the National Curriculum of
Dentistry, and a reviewer of three other courses in the National Curriculum.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for her dedicated
service by naming Patricia A. O'Connor Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Leon D. Ostrander, Jr., M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine in the Medical
School and Research Scientist in the Department of Epidemiology in the School of
Public Health, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1988.
A native of Detroit, Dr. Ostrander received his B.S. and M.D. degrees and his
training in internal medicine and cardiology at The University of Michigan. Following
a brief period in private practice, he rejoined the faculty as an assistant professor of
internal medicine and a research associate in epidemiology in 1962, progressing
through the ranks to the positions of professor of internal medicine and research
scientist in epidemiology.
In his role as a research scientist, Dr. Ostrander was associated with the
well-known Tecumseh Project, which demonstrated the relationships of obesity and
diet to such coronary artery disease risk factors as hyperglycemia, elevated serum
lipids, and hypertension. This internationally-recognized project spanned a 20-year
period, and provided essential data that is the basis for much ongoing investigation.
The Tecumseh Project also provided Dr. Ostrander an opportunity to follow the
natural history of electrocardiographic findings, such as hypertrophy of the left
ventricle. This interest was continued in the clinical arena of the Cardiology Division,
where Dr. Ostrander was responsible for electrocardiographic interpretation for many
years. Through a weekly conference on electrocardiography and daily review of ECG
readings, Dr. Ostrander taught electrocardiography to internal medicine and
cardiology trainees, many of whom have recognized him as the single most important
contributor to their training in cardiology. His expertise in research study design and
biostatistics likewise was eagerly sought out by young faculty and trainees. As the
physician-in-charge of the outpatient cardiology clinics for many years, Dr. Ostrander
also earned the deep affection of many patients for his thoughtful and concerned care.
Dr. Ostrander is currently writing a book detailing his experiences in the
European theatre during World War II. His colleagues will miss his perceptive sense
of humor, clinical and research expertise, and companionship.


-125 -



December Meeting, 1988


The Regents now salute this distinguished clinician, investigator, and teacher for
his dedicated service by naming Leon D. Ostrander, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Internal
Medicine.
Leland Stowe retired from the Department of Journalism (now the Department
of Communication) in 1970, following a long career as a distinguished foreign
correspondent and Professor of Journalism at The University of Michigan.
Professor Stowe joined the journalism department at The University of
Michigan in 1956. He taught courses in world affairs, the flow of international news,
and the reporting of foreign affairs. After his retirement, he donated his collection of
books some 300 works on foreign affairs and reporting to the journalism library. For
several years, Professor Stowe has sponsored an annual essay contest open to all
students of The University of Michigan. The Stowe Award is granted for the best
analytical writing derived from his book collection.
Prior to joining The University of Michigan faculty, Professor Stowe served as
foreign correspondent for the New York Herald Tribune and the Chicago Daily News.
He won the Pulitzer Prize in 1930 for his coverage of the Paris Reparations
Conference, which carried out the Young Plan and established the Bank for
International Settlements at Basle, Switzerland. In 1940, it was Professor Stowe's
dispatches that alerted the world of the Nazis' seizure of Norway. In his reporting
career, which began in 1926, Professor Stowe reported from forty-four nations and
colonies.
The Regents now salute this distinguished journalist and educator for his
exceptional contributions to his profession and to the University by naming Leland
Stowe Professor Emeritus of Journalism.
Regarding the retirement of Leon D. Ostrander, Jr., Regent Baker said that Dr.
Ostrander was a "physician's physician", and noted that he had been an outstanding
physician, researcher, and professor, as well as a valued personal friend.
Memorials
The Regents adopted the following memorial statement for a faculty member
at the University of Michigan-Dearborn:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
October 25, 1988, of Rainer H. Sell, Professor of German at The University of
Michigan-Dearborn.
Professor Sell received his Ph.D. degree from the University of Kiel in 1970, and
had been granted the Staatsexamen by the same university in 1965. Before joining The
University of Michigan faculty in 1975, Professor Sell had taught at the University of
Illinois and Brown University. An outstanding teacher of German, he had the happy
knack of fostering a relaxed atmosphere in his classes and leading his students, almost
without their knowing it, to increase their vocabulary and fluency far beyond their
expectations. In addition to teaching the German language at all levels, Professor Sell
taught a remarkable range of courses, including introductions to fiction and drama for
our English literature discipline, an interdisciplinary course on the grotesque in art
and literature, team-taught courses on Weimar and Nazi Germany, and numerous
other courses on German literature and culture. He also established the first
sequence in Latin language at The University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Professor Sell's scholarly interests were as wide-ranging as his teaching. He was
the author of Wort-Satz-Gesprach, a beginning German communication text, and
various articles on foreign language pedagogy. But he also published extensively on


-126 -



December Meeting, 1988


modern German literature, American literature, and the relations between classical
and modern literature, as well as German-American culture. In his department he
was regarded as a true renaissance man.
Besides being a much beloved colleague and friend, Rainer Sell was one of
those vital participants in campus service without whom the University would cease to
function. He was active at all levels in making The University of Michigan-Dearborn
a better place, serving as acting chair of his department and member or chair of
numerous major committees. He established the German program at The University
of Michigan-Dearborn and was instrumental in founding the concentration in
international studies. He pioneered on-site language teaching in business and industry
at Volkswagen of America.
Friends and colleagues will long remember his warmth, his charm, his gentle
sense of humor, and his cheerful dedication to students and colleagues. We mourn the
passing of this gifted teacher, versatile scholar, and much beloved colleague.
Degrees
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
approved amendments to previously approved degree lists.
Establishment of a Funded Depreciation Account
The Regents next turned to this matter, which had been tabled from the
November, 1988 meeting. Regent Baker moved, Regent Smith seconded, and the
Regents unanimously approved authorization for the establishment of a funded
depreciation account for UM Hospitals retroactive to its establishment in FY 1984-85,
which confirms the UM Hospitals' Executive Board's decision with regard to same.
Plan Year for University of Michigan Retirement Plan
Vice President Womack informed the Regents that certain provisions of the
1986 Tax Reform Act require that the University formally announce the plan year for
retirement plan purposes that begins after December 31, 1988. Prior Regental actions
on University retirement plans have determined that the plan year for University
retirement plan purposes begins on July 1, commensurate with the commencement of
the University's fiscal year.
Vacant Land, Big Bay Point, Powell Township, Marquette County, Michigan
The Regents considered a motion that had been tabled at the November
meeting that the Regents accept an offer of $35,500 submitted by Lighthouse Point,
Inc. to purchase 52.5 acres of vacant land on Big Bay Point in Powell Township in
Marquette County. Vice President Womack said that the opportunity costs associated
with this sale would be approximately $55,000 over 5 years (the land would have to
have appreciated to a value of $55,000 in 5 years time to yield the same return as
selling it). Regent Smith stated that she would not support the motion, because of her
belief that the University should not accept less than the prime rate (currently 10.5%)
on land contracts. Following further discussion, the Regents voted to accept the offer,
subject to the land contract as described in the action request and a 10% realtor's
commission. The vote was seven to one, with Regent Smith opposed.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Vice President Womack said that
he was preparing a schedule of all of the properties held by the Regents, as well as a
-127 -



December Meeting, 1988


policy to guide the Regents in the handling and marketing of property. This will be
ready for consideration by the Regents early in 1989.
76.56 Vacant Acres, Chesterfield Township, Macomb County, Michigan
Regent Varner moved, and Regent Brown seconded, that the University accept
an offer from Dover Development Corporation of $525,000 to purchase the
University's 76.56 acres in Chesterfield Township, Macomb County, recognizing there
are many issues related to the proposed use of the land by the buyer that need to be
resolved prior to completing a sale. The mineral rights to the property will be retained
by the University.
Regent Smith asked whether there was a time limit in which the conditions
outlined in the action request have to be met. Considerable discussion ensued about
whether the University should accept the offer without there being a specified time
limit within which the developer would have to have obtained the necessary clearances
for building a mobile home park, after which the University could terminate the
agreement. Regent Brown cautioned that it may be difficult to determine what a
reasonable time limit would be, and that too short of a time limit may hurt the land's
saleability. Regent Nielsen suggested that the Regents yield to the expertise of Vice
President Womack and no one else to go back to the buyer to put a time certain on
the agreement.
Regent Roach agreed with Regent Smith that there should be a reasonable
cut-off point. He moved that the Regents accept the offer, provided that there is a
cutoff of 18 months or less, as negotiated by Vice President Womack, and that if the
buyer can demonstrate that a longer time period is necessary, he return to the Board
with a counter offer. Regent Power seconded the motion.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Vice President Womack said that
there is no requirement for payment by the developer until the downpayment. He also
noted that the opportunity cost of $630,000 extends only from the time that the
downpayment is made, and that perhaps there should be a requirement for the
developer to pay some type of offsetting or holding cost up front.
Vice President Womack said that Regent Roach's motion represents a counter
offer which he would transmit to the prospective buyer. Regent Baker reiterated his
feeling that the developer should be required to pay a deposit at the time of the
agreement. Regent Nielsen said that it was reasonable to put a time limit on the deal,
but that in light of all of the other costs that the developer will incur, it may be
unreasonable to require a downpayment. Mr. Herbert noted that the University
currently is holding a $5,000 deposit from the buyer, which will revert back to him with
no interest penalty if the deal falls through. Regent Varner described a type of
transaction in which the buyer makes a deposit and if the deal falls through after a
certain length of time, the seller retains a portion of the deposit. Regent Nielsen again
cautioned against attaching such a condition to this particular agreement. He
suggested that the renegotiation only include the time limit.
President Duderstadt suggested that Vice President Womack be instructed to
make a counter offer to the buyer of an 18-month time limit, possibly shorter,
depending on the negotiation. Vice President Womack could also keep in mind the
possibility of an up-front payment if the time period lapses, but that he be allowed to
use his judgement in the negotiation in proceeding with that condition. Regent Brown


-128 -



December Meeting, 1988


asked Vice President Womack to consider Regent Varner's suggestion of requesting a
payment from the developer after a time limit has passed, because at that point the
developer would have a good feel for whether the project will go through or not.
The vote was then called, and the motion carried, with Regents Brown, Nielsen,
Power, and Roach in favor and Regents Baker and Smith opposed. Regent Waters
was away from the table at the time of the vote. Regent Baker stated that he was
opposed because he didn't think any University asset should be tied up for an
extended period of time at no cost to the buyer.
Regent Varner left the meeting at 2:25 P.M.
Stores Building Addition
The Regents voted unanimously to approve construction of an addition to the
Stores warehouse and an addition to the existing office element of an office/computer
room addition.
North Campus Family Housing Community Center
Vice President Womack requested that the Regents approve a revision to the
project budget of the North Campus Family Housing Community Center to include
the following: a) $100,000 for creating a 7,000 square foot full basement under the
Community Center; b) $100,000 for sports equipment storage space and rest room
facilities for the Hubbard Playing Field, as well as increased electrical transformer
capacity and water main size to allow for future lighting and sprinkling of the Hubbard
Playing Field; and c) $200,000 for extension of a major electrical line to the
Northwood housing area. Bidding these projects with the previously approved
$1,660,000 for the North Campus Family Housing Community Center will create a
revised budget of $2,060,000. The Regents unanimously approved the revised budget.
Renovations
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
approved the following renovations projects: renovation of the Argus II Building,
installation of electrical duct and cabling to provide increased electrical capacity to the
Medical Campus, Parking Operations annual maintenance program, and chiller and
cooling tower replacement in the Rackham Building.
Annual Report on the Implementation of the Regents' Policy on Research Grants,
Contracts, and Agreements, FY 1988
Vice President Wilson submitted an annual report on the implementation of the
Regents' Policy on Research Grants, Contracts and Agreements for fiscal year 1988.
The report notes that during FY 1988, 19 requests for approval of contractual
restriction on openness were received. Regent Roach observed that there has not
been any significant change in the nature of the University's research as a result of the
Regents' revised policy of April, 1987 and that there have been practically no classified
research projects. The outcome would be no different than if the prior policy had
been in effect, he continued, and it appears that the ends have been achieved with a
"lot less hassle and a lot less intimidation, and therefore we think the new policy
appears to be working very well indeed."


-129 -



December Meeting, 1988


Recommendation for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
The Regents unanimously approved several recommendations for appointment
to medical staff membership.
Resolution in Honor of Robert S. Holbrook
Regent Waters read the following resolution:
The Regents of the University wish to acknowledge and commend Robert S.
Holbrook for his timely contributions and leadership as Interim Vice President
for Academic Affairs.
For most of this year the University has been involved in a very critical
transition that has involved changes in its top three administrative posts. We
have a new Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, a new President, and,
shortly, a new Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs.
Throughout this process Robert Holbrook has played a critical role in
maintaining the momentum and direction of the academic enterprise. He has
done so with skill and strength and unselfish dedication.
Thankfully Dr. Holbrook will continue in his role of Associate Vice
President for Academic Affairs under the new Provost, Charles Vest. This will,
of course, provide the necessary continuity to complete this major transition and
enable the University to move confidently into the future.
The Regents express their deep appreciation to Robert Holbrook for his
dedicated service at a most critical time in University history.
Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it was approved by acclamation.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place on January 19 and 20, 1989. Regents' transportation, accommodation,
and telephone toll expenses payable in the month of November, 1988 totalled
$2,501.51.
ard L. Kennedy,ecret


-130 -



JANUARY MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, January 19, 1989
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Brown, Power, Roach, Varner,
and Waters. Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, Womack, and Provost Vest
were also present, as was Chancellor Wilson. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy
and Chancellor Jones were absent, as were Regents Baker, Smith, and Nielsen. Vice
Chancellor Wong attended the meeting in place of Chancellor Jones. Regent Nielsen
arrived at 2:10 P.M.
President Duderstadt explained that Vice President Kennedy and Chancellor
Jones were attending a meeting of the American Council on Education, and that
Regents Baker and Smith were attending the inauguration of President-elect Bush.
He welcomed Provost Vest to his first Regents' Meeting and commented on the
University's victory in the 1989 Rose Bowl.
Martin Luther King, Jr. Diversity Day
President Duderstadt reviewed the activities that had been held earlier in the
week in connection with Martin Luther King, Jr. Diversity Day, noting that it had been
a "truly spectacular day". He said that he sensed that people were coming together
and putting aside their differences. In focusing their attention on building a model of
the multicultural university, he believed that a sense of community was developing
among University students, faculty, and staff. He recognized all of the organizers for
their efforts in organizing the events and contributing to the success of the day, stating
that "I commend, congratulate, and thank all who participated."
Formation of a Task Force to Study Costs of Education
President Duderstadt informed the Regents that he intended to convene a
special task force, headed by Provost Vest, to "analyze the present costs of education
at the University of Michigan, to place those costs appropriately within the state and
national contexts, and to help us develop new and imaginative ways to curtail cost
increases while maintaining or increasing the quality of our programs of instruction,
research, and service."
This decision was stimulated by the likelihood of limited public and legislative
support for education in the near future, the fact that the costs of higher education
have risen more rapidly than the Consumer Price Index in recent years, the past
history of the University in taking strong actions to achieve high quality programs
within tight budget constraints, the need to maintain this quality in order to continue
benefiting the state, the belief that everything possible must be done to limit tuition
increases (within the context of preserving program quality), and a desire that the state
provide adequate support for higher education while preserving the University's
constitutional autonomy.


-131 -



January Meeting, 1989


The Task Force will be comprised of University personnel knowledgeable in the
financial aspects of higher education and external representatives from the private
sector. Although a preliminary report will be expected by the end of 1989, President
Duderstadt emphasized that he expected the group to remain in existence for a
considerable length of time.
Regent Power commented that he was "delighted" about the formation of the
Task Force because the problem of ever-increasing costs of higher education, which
forces the University to request more state funds and then to increase tuition when
these are not forthcoming, has to be addressed. He was also pleased that the
University would be able to demonstrate to the state legislature that it was taking the
responsible position of "doing its part" to control costs.
Regent Roach noted that because a difficult budget year is expected in Lansing,
data collected by the Task Force would be helpful to the Provost in formulating the
next budget request. He also advised that the Task Force review historical data dating
back about 30 years, since that marks the beginning of the University's recent budget
difficulties.
Minutes
The Regents unanimously approved the Minutes of the November and
December, 1989 Regents' Meetings.
Reports
Vice President Womack filed monthly reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations, and a quarterly report on
Non-Competitive Purchases over $2,000 from Single Sources, 10/1/88 - 12/31/88. He
noted that the Report on Investment Transactions found in the Additional Agenda is
meant to replace the same report in the regular agenda. He also pointed out that the
Personnel/Labor Relations Report indicates a steady growth in the number of
employees who enroll in health maintenance organizations for health care coverage.
Regarding the Report on Non-Competitive Purchases, Regent Power inquired
about the nature of the University's relationship with the firm of Cummins and
Barnard. In response to a question from Regent Varner, President Duderstadt said
that the computers purchased from NeXT, Incorporated were intended for installation
in a computer cluster.
Vice President Wilson submitted a report of Summaries of a Selection of
Current Research and Sponsored Projects.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich noted that the dollar amount of gifts is ahead by 11.5%
and the number of donors is ahead by 49% over what they were at this time last year.
The following gifts were accepted with thanks and in accordance with their terms and
conditions:


-132 -



January Meeting, 1989


Ann Arbor Area Foundation Ann Arbor
for research in the Kelsey Museum, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  7,922
Emma W. Alexander, Ann Arbor
for support of the School of Art, the Medical School, the Clements Library, and the
University Library                                                            5,700
Judith Dow Alexander, Ann Arbor
63 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock; pledge payment for the School
of Music Addition                                                             5,335
Allen Bradley Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Amax Foundation, Inc., Greenwich, Connecticut
for support of the College of Engineering                                    12,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georga
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy          108,868
American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, Washington, D.C.
for physics research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts      5,500
American Heart Association, Inc. Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                           40,147
American Society of Clinical Oncology, Chicago, Illinois
for the ASCO Young Investigator Award in the Medical School                  12,500
Gary W. Ampulski, Lake Bluff, Illinois
for physics support in the College of Literature Science, and the Arts       15,000
Arthur Andersen & Company Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  69,835
Anonymous Donor
for support of the School of Social Work                                      9,900
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                           13,083
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology      18,462
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,808
Abby K. Babcock Trust
for the Babcock Funds in the Medical School                                   6,336
Esther Tuttle Bailey Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       70,000
Baker & Hostetler Founders Trust, Cleveland, Ohio
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                    10,000
Barris, Sott, Denn & Driker, Detroit
pledge payments for the Institute of Continuing Legal Education and other support
in the Law School                                                             6,100
Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn, New York, New York
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Carl F. Beaver Estate
for the Catherine Hannah Beaver Endowed Scholarship in the School of Music, and
for the Carl Beaver Endowed Scholarship in the Medical School               275,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship, and for the Michigan Historical
Collections Fund                                                             29,301
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
for the Alumni Scholarship Fund in the Law School                             6,300
Les and Anne Biederman Foundation, Inc. Traverse City
pledge payments for the College of Engineering, the Medical School, and the new
University of Michigan Hospital                                              10,000
Bison Books Corporation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for the Robert H. Bockman/John Whitney Hall Fellowship and for the Preston W.
Slosson Prize, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                  15,000
Bixby Foundation, Detroit
for support of the School of Business Administration, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Department of Athletics                        7,000
Bo Enterprises, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics     10,000
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for gifts pending designation                                               250,000
Robert W.-Browne, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics    150,000
Buhr Foundation Ann Arbor
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont and the C. James Pilcher Scholarships in the School of
Business Administration                                                       6,000


-133 -



January Meeting, 1989


Will and Jeanne Caldwell Foundation, West Bloomfield
for gifts pending designation                                                 5,000
Kathryn L. Carl, Flint
for the Kathryn Carl Scholarship, the University of Michigan-Flint            5,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                                   248,000
Chase Manhattan Bank New York, New York
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      20,525
Chevron U.SA. Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Fellowships and Scholarships in the College of Engineering   14,648
Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for support of the School of Business Administration           5,000
Margaret H. Coudron, Ypsilanti
for the Coudron Acquisition Fund in the Museum of Art                         5,000
Louis B. Cushman, Houston, Texas
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  8,200
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           10,118
Helen L. DeRoy Foundation, Detroit
for the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professorship in the Law School              20,000
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Detroit
for the Helen L. DeRoy Visiting Professorship in the Law School, and for the Life
Sciences Careers Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  67,000
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
pledge payment for support of the minority program in the College of Engineering  5,000
Peter Fordney DeVaux, Santa Monica, California
pledge payment for support of the School of Business Administration           5,000
Charles DeV leg Foundation, Detroit
for the DeVlieg Fellowship and Scholarship in the College of Engineering     25,000
Mrs. Archibald W. Diack, Jr., Portland, Oregon
for the Fred G. Nov Fellowship in Microbiology, in the Medical School        10,000
Dickinson, Wright, Moon, Van Dusen & Freeman, Detroit
pledge payment for the Institute of Continuing Legal Education in the Law School  8,000
Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts
for support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts   25,930
Domino's Pizza, Inc. Ann Arbor
for support of the University of Michigan Hospitals                          20,000
Lloyd H. Donnell, Palo Alto, California
cash gift as a donor pooled income contribution, for the ultimate benefit of the
College of Engineering                                                       30,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation Midland
for support of the College of Engineering                                     8,000
Dow Corning Foundation, Midland
pledge payments for the Dow Corning Assistant Professorships in the Colleges of
Engineering, and Literature, Science, and the Arts                           87,500
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
Sledge payment for the chemical sciences facility in the College of Literature,
cience, and the Arts                                                       500,006
Dunnings Foundation, Inc., Lansing
pledge payments for the Alden J. "Butch" Carpenter Memorial Fund in the Law
School, and for the Martin Luther King Scholarship                            5,000
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for the chemical sciences facility in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  50,000
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for support of the minority program in the College of Engineering             8,000
John R. and Betty B. Edman, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration             5,000
Ervin Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Associates Program and student loans in the School of Business Administration  6,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for scholarships and other support in the Schools of Business Administration and
Law; the Colleges of Engineering and Literature, Science, and the Arts; and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      46,525
Iris M. Fauri, Ann Arbor
for the Fedele F. Fauri Memorial Fund in the School of Social Work            5,000
Oscar H. Feldman, Huntington Woods
pledge payment for the Oscar H. Feldman Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                               10,000


-134 -



January Meeting, 1989


Frances B. Fisher, Brookside New Jersey
for support of the Michigan Historical Collections                            5,000
Max M. Fisher, Detroit
for unrestricted student aid, and pledge payment for the new University of Michigan
Hospital                                                                     26,50
Morgan L. Fitch, Jr., Western Springs Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000
Ethel and James Flinn Foundation, Detroit
for the Flinn Foundation Research Fund in the Medical School                 65,000
Ford Foundation, New York New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Institute of Public
Policy Studies, and the Institute for-Social Research                       379,120
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
pledge payment for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, CAD/CAM Engineering
Laboratory, and for Employee Matching Gifts                                 151,754
Ford Motor Company Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering                                     8,000
Mr. and Mrs. Richard T. Garrett, Bay Village, Ohio
1,000 shares of Kellogg Company common stock; for the Richard T. and Marilyn H.
Garrett Family Fund in Neurology, in the Medical School                      64,500
General Dynamics, St. Louis, Missouri
for the Carl E. Badgley/Robert W. Bailey Fund in the Medical School          25,000
General Electric Company, CIeveland, Ohio
for the Generaf Electric University Support Program in the College of Engineering  10,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit
for the minority program and capital projects in the College of Engineering, and
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  500,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for support ofthe College of Engineering                                     69,902
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for the Rollin M. Gerstacker Funds in the College of Engineering             32,688
Charles H. and Susanne T. Gessner, New Canaan Connecticut
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Adiministration  5,000
Horace N. and Anne R. Gilbert Trust, San Marino, California
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
Robert M. Ginn, Shaker Heights Ohio
pledge payment for capital projects in the College of Engineering             5,000
Lawrence M. Goodspeed Trust
for support ofthe School of Business Administration                          22,000
William T. Grant Foundation New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and in the Institute for
Social Research                                                              65,656
Owen B. Green Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                      219,064
Lazar J. Greenfield, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for support of the Medical School                              5,000
GTE Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for fellowships in the College of Engineering                                10,000
Robert H. Hamilton, Tucson, Arizona
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Sheila Ford and Steven K. Hamp, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the C. S. Mott Children's
Hospital, and WUOM/WVGR; and for the Henry Ford Estate Fund and the Wade
McCree Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Dearborn                    15,500
Ruth W. Harris, Ann Arbor
for the Ruth W. Harris Scholarship in the Division of Physical Education     10,000
John M. Hart, Simsbury, Connecticut
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                          5,000
Helen E. Hart Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       17,846
Hayden Foundation, Dearborn Heights
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration            10,000
Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration             5,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medica School                                             5,000
Carl J. Herzog Foundation, Inc., Stamford, Connecticut
for dermatology research in the Medical School                                6,000


-135 -



January Meeting, 1989


Jerry L. Hill Trust, Battle Creek
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                     5,000
Arthur Hills and Associates Toledo, Ohio
for support of the School of Natural Resources                                5,000
Mr. and Mrs. William A. Hiltner, Pasadena, California
139 shares of various corporate common stocks, and cash gift of $2,000; for the Ruth
and Albert Hiltner Fund m Astronomy, and other support m the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                             5,996
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for thoracic surgery research fellowships in the Medical School              10,000
Charles S. and Ann S. Hutchins, North Palm Beach, Florida
for the Harold A. Furlong Visiting Professorship in the Medical School       10,000
International Business Machines Corporation, New Haven, Connecticut
for research in the College of Engineering                                   50,000
Jelliffe Family Revocable Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Contribution Fund, New Brunswick, New Jersey
for the Pharmacology Centennial Fund in the Medical School                    5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                   124,592
Pauline C. Jones Estate
for the Roger M. Jones Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering           50,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation Willowdale, Ontario, Canada
for research in the Medical School                                           21,500
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           13,289
James S. Kemper Foundation, Long Grove, Illinois
for the James S. Kemper, Jr. Fund in the School of Business Administration   10,000
Theodore J. Kiebler Estate
for support of the University of Michigan Hospitals                         135,077
Knights of Vartan, Haigazian Lodge Grand Council, Arlington, Massachusetts
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Armenian Studies Program            10,000
Lacks Industries, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                    10,000
Jeffrey B. Lane, Hewlett, New York
for support of the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                          5,000
W. Eugene Lane Revocable Living Trust St. Clair
tor research in the MedicafSchool                                            10,000
Ruth H. Larson Estate
for the Class of 1931 Scholarship in the College of Engineering              50,000
Suzanne R. Lehmann, New York, New York
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                      5,000
Leukemia Research Foundation, Northbrook, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            8,255
Nathan Levine, Franklin
pledge payment for the Nathan Levine Architectural Research Fellowship, College of
Architecture and Urban Planning                                               5,000
Lilly Endowment, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for Lilly Endowment Fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                   30,000
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for support of the M. B. Landers, Sr. Memorial Fund in the Medical School, and for
research in the Medical School                                               40,000
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Livingston, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 10,000
Walter Lorenz, Jacksonville Florida
pledge payment for thie Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry  5,000
Henry Luce Foundation Inc. New York, New York
for the History of Art Fellowship, and for Southeast Asian and Chinese studies
research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                297,000
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Luciano, New Vernon, New Jersey
283 shares of Schering-Plough Corporation common stock; pledge payment for the
Robert P. Luciano Endowment in the Law School                                16,096
Thomas S. Maentz, Birmingham
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics     20,000
Emanuel N. Maisel Marital Trust, Detroit
pledge payments for the Emanuel N. Maisel Endowment Funds in the Medical School  600,000


-136 -



January Meeting, 1989


Theodore J. Mallon, Boulder, Colorado
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                      5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Donald H. Malloure Birmingham
1,250 shares of Bethlehem Steel common stock; for giftspending designation   28,438
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           72,000
Marion Laboratories, Inc. Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy            6,000
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc New York, New York
pledge payment for the Risk Management Professorship in the School of Business
Administration                                                                5,000
McDonnell Douglas Foundation, St. Louis, Missouri
for the McDonnell Douglas Scholarships and other support in the College of
Engineering                                                                  26,000
Mrs. Lester A. Mcintosh Boca Raton, Florida
for the Mildred McIntosh Voice Scholarship in the School of Music            10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                     7,190
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
1,700 shares of NL Industries, Inc. common stock, and 1,700 shares of NL Industries
Series C preferred stock; for support of the School of Business Administration  38,888
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Mette Foundation, Detroit
for the Norman Mette Scholarship in the Medical School                       20,000
MichCon Foundation, Detroit
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration, and for
Empoyee Matching Gifts                                                      17,850
Michigan Eye-Bank, Research Center Capital Fund Campaign, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Kellogg Eye Center                                    50,000
Mrs. V aden E. Miles, Ann Arbor
for support of the biological station, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
Miller & Chevalier Charitable-Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts  6,025
John E. Missimore Estate
for the John and Norma Missimore Scholarships                                75,448
Virginia Morgan Estate
for support of the Medical School                                           134,579
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for support of the minority program in the College of Engineering             5,000
Mrs. Charles S. Mott, Flint
pledge payment for the Fleming A. Barbour Glaucoma Research and Evaluation Unit
m the Medical School                                                        300,000
N.C.R. Corporation, Dayton, Ohio
for support of the College of Engineering                                    25,000
John J. O'Leary, Green Valley, Arizona
pledge payments for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
the Medical School                                                            5,000
Mrs. William B. Palmer Ann Arbor
200 shares of Bethlehem Steel common stock and cash gift of $1,000- for the Rackham
Renaissance Fund in the Graduate School, and for support of the School of Music  5,363
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for the Elsa U. Pardee Foundation Funds in the Medical School               158,439
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Naturat Resources                              30,000
Neva B. Pierpont Estate
for support of the University of Michigan Hospitals                          35,258
Plough Foundation, Memphis, Tennessee
pledge payment for the Plough Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy         45,000
Morayne M. Rodesta Estate
for unrestricted University scholarships                                     18,750
Manard E. Pont, Castro Valley, California
pledge payments for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical
chool                                                                       10,000
Mervin Pregulman, Chattanooga, Tennessee
325 shares of Norfolk & Southern common stock; for the Sports Services Building,
Department of Athletics                                                      10,095
-137 -



January Meeting, 1989


Quota International, Inc., Port Huron
for the Children's Fund for Cochlear Implants in the Medical School           7,300
Louise G. Raphael, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Theophile Raphael Research Fund in the Medical School                10,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           40,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the Institute for
Social Research; and for the Rockefeller Foundation Service Appreciation
Award in the Graduate School                                                 97,030
Rockwell International Corporation Trust Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Rockwell Graduate Fellowship in the College of Engineering, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                               26,200
Margaret L. Rorke, Saginaw
pledge payments for support of the Schools of Law and Music                   5,000
Deborah C. Ross, Tulsa, Oklahoma
for support of the School of Social Work                                     34,144
Francis E. Ross, Grand Cayman Island, British West Indies
for the William A. Paton Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Donald H. Runck, Green Valley, Arizona
for support of the School of Business Administration, and for unrestricted University
student financial aid                                                         8,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            54,994
Gary S. Sandall, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics     10,000
Sandoz Forschungs Institut, Vienna, Austria
for Dermatology research in the Medical School                               20,000
Mr. and Mrs. Richard N. Sarns Ann Arbor
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine, the Division of
Physical Education, the University Musical Society, the Henry Frieze Simmons
Fund, and WUOM/WVGR                                                          30,060
Gilbert P. Schafer, Mentor, Ohio
125 shares of Bellsouth Corporation common stock; for support of the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, and the Department of Athletics              5,039
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Madison, New Jersey
pledge payment for the Plough Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy         45,000
S. H. and Helen R. Scheuer FamilyToundation New York, New York
pledge payment for the Scheuer Library Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 10,000
Adrian W. Schmidhauser, Waco, Texas
100 shares of Burlington Northern common stock; a donor pooled income contribution
for the Adrian W. Schmidhauser Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the University of
Michigan                                                                      7,594
Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for the Charles W. Seabury Research Fellowship in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning                                              10,000
Joseph R. Seiger, Foster City, California
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the Law School                     5,000
Benson P. Shapiro, Concord Massachusetts
for support of the College of Engineering                                     7,000
Donald R. Shepherd Pasadena California
for support of the School of Business Administration and the School of Music, and
pledge payment for the Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall Addition                 328,000
Mabel E. Sherk, Seminole, Florida
for the Kellogg Eye Center                                                    5,000
Alvin V. Shoemaker, Chatham, New Jersey
1,000 shares of First Boston Company common stock; pledge payment for the Roy F.
and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School          52,125
Edwin N. Sidman, Boston, Massachusetts
pledge payment for the Paula and Edwin Sidman Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                        20,000
Siemens Medical Systems, Inc., Iselin, New Jersey
for the George R. Scott Pediatric Cardiology Research Fund in the Medical School  25,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for biology research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts    394,000
Isabel Ott SmitH, Detroit
pledge payment for support of the Michigan League                             5,000
Sonoco Products Company, Hartsville, South Carolina
for the Ergonomics Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering          20,000
-138 -



January Meeting, 1989


SPX Foundation, Muskegon
for support of the College of Engineering, and for Employee Matching Gifts   20,395
C. J. and Mary Susan Steffen, Bloomfield Hills
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  7,000
Edward C. and Hazel L. Stephenson Foundation, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the Edward C. and Hazel L. Stephenson Memorial Scholarship                7,000
Helmut Stern Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Helmut Stern Fund in the Museum of Art                               25,000
Irvin Stern Foundation, New York, New York
sledge payment for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature,
cience, and the Arts                                                        20,000
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Port Huron
for support of the College of Engineering, and for unrestricted faculty support at the
University of Michigan                                                       15,000
Victor Lyle Streeter, Ann Arbor
320 shares of Georgia-Pacific Corporation common stock; for the Victor Lyle Streeter
Fellowship in the College of Engineering                                     11,380
Taubman Charitable Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for support of the Program in American Institutions, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts                                           100,000
Tenneco Automotive, Deerfield, Illinois
pledge payment for support of the University of Michigan-Dearborn, CAD/CAM
Enineering Laboratory                                                        35,000
Therma-Tru Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hosptial                    5,000
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund New York, New York
pledge payment for thie new University of Michigan Hospital                  25,000
Mr. and Mrs. Lynn A. Townsend, Birmingham
for the Lemuel L. Laing Fellowship in the School of Business Administration   7,000
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Wiley T. Buchanan Research Fund the Norman F. Miller
Chair, and the F. Bruce Fralick Endowed Professorship in the Medical School;
for the chemical sciences facility in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts; and for the University Musical Society                            205,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for the TRW Faculty Assistanceship Fund in the College of Engineering        20,000
Dr. and Mrs. John F. Ullrich, Dearborn
pledge payment and other support for the College of Engineering, and for the Revelli
Band Rehearsal Hall Addition                                                  5,250
Joy G. Ungerleider-Mayerson Philanthropic Fund, Larchmont, New York
for studies in religion in the College of Literature, Science,, and the Arts  5,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  26,225
Varnum Riddtering, Schmidt & Howlett, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Institute of Continuing Legal Education in the Law School  6,500
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida Memorial Endowment in the Medical School           10,000
Berenice Wallace Paola, Kansas
for the F. Iruce Fralick and W. R. Parker Research and Loan Fund in the Medical
School                                                                       30,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                       6,000
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for support of the Medical School                                            25,000
Byron L. West, Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for support of the College of Architecture and Urban Planning  5,000
Carolyn L. Westa Denver, Colorado
for the Jack A. Borchardt Fellowship and the Robert B. Harris Award and Lectureship
Funds in the College of Engineering, and for support of the Law School and the
University Libraries, in memory of Gilbert M. Westa                          12,600
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
for research and other support in the College of Engineering                 40,000
World Health Organization, Zurich Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      41,233
Wyeth Ayerst Laboratories, Philadelphia Pennsylvania
for cancer research in the Medical School                                     7,500
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Scholarship in the Law School                             100,000
William C. Zuilhoff Estate
for gifts pending designation                                               317,700
-139 -



January Meeting, 1989


The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computers, Inc., Cupertino, California
a MacIntosh II comfputer and related equipment; for the School of Art
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
16 autograph letters and other documents; for the Clements Library
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
two complete Intel 301 computer systems; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science
S. W. Jackman, Victoria, British Columbia, Canada
The David Bates Douglas Papers (1790 - 1849); for the Clements Library
Liberty Lumber, Dearborn
an antique, horse-drawn sleigh; for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane
Stewart and Patricia McFadden, Ann Arbor
a John Rogers statue from the Shakespearean Series; for the Law School
Ira A. and Rebecca J. Schultz, Adrian
manuscript charts of three Michigan locations (1825 - 1864); for the Clements Library
Mr. and Mrs. Jimm F. White BloomfieTd Hills
a Pearson Ensign Hull sailboat; for Camp Michigania
Personnel Actions
Provost Vest pointed out the appointment of Todd Endelman as thenda William
Haber Professor of Modern Jewish History. He also noted the appointments of
Hemalata C. Dandekar and William C. Kelly as Associate Vice Presidents for
Research and Robert B. Zajonc as the Interim Director of the Institute for Social
Research. On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
approved the following Personnel Actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND
FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective February 1, 1989
Ronald F. Fleming, Ph.D., Director, Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project, and Professor of Nuclear
Engineering, for a five-year term
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND
FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 1989
Michael W. Long, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Russell N. DeJong, Professor Emeritus of Neurology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Ivan F. Duff, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Frank E. Filisko, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering and Acting Director of the
Macromolecular Research Center, reappointed ActingD irector of the Macromolecular Research
Center, for a one-year period or until a permanent Director is appointed
James A. McLean, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period
John E. Milholland, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, reappointed to provide academic counseling,
Academic year, 1988-89


-140 -



January Meeting, 1989


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective February 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
George R. Carignan, from Research Engineer, Space Physics Research Laboratory, Adjunct Professor of
Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, and Associate Chair, Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic
and Space Sciences, to Interim Associate Dean for Research, College of Engineering, Research
Engineer Space Physics Research Laboratory, and Adjunct Professor of Atmospheric and
Oceanic Science, for a one-year term
Hemalata C. Dandekar, Associate Professor of Urban Planning, appointed Associate Vice President for
Research, January 20, 1989
Richard E. Darnell, Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, appointed Interim Coordinator of the
School of Health Sciences, UMI-Flint, for a one-semester term, January 1, 1989
William C. Kelly, C. Scott Turner Professor of Geological Sciences, appointed Associate Vice President
for Research, January 23, 1989
Robert B. Zajonc Charles Horton Cooley Distinguished University Professor of Social Sciences and
Director of and Research Scientist in the  esearch Center for Group Dynamics, Institute for
Social Research, appointed Interim Director of the Institute for Social Research
The following committee appointments were approved:
Ann Arbor Summer Festival, Inc.
William B. Krumm, University representative
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Robert W. Heywood, for the period January 1, 1989 through April 30, 1990, vice Charles W. Bailey, on
sabbatical
William Haber Professor of Modern Jewish History. The Regents approved the
appointment of Todd M. Endelman as the William Haber Professor of Modern Jewish
History, effective January 1, 1989.
Personnel Reports
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Jenmnifer S. Balay, MA., Lecturer in Psychology
Janet E. Malley, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology
Medical School
Vildan Mullin, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor II of Anesthesiology
Kathy S. O'Shea, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, October 1, 1988
Ann E. Schwartz, M.D., Lecturer in Ophthalmology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective November 1, 1988
Medical School
Alfin Vaz, Ph.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry


-141 -



January Meeting, 1989


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Aquites A. Almansi, Assistant Professor of Economics, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1989
David A. Aschauer, Assistant Professor of Economics, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Samuel H. Barnes, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
David D. Bien, Professor of History, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Thomas G. Brady, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, leave wvithout salary, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Enoch Brater, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of Theatre and
Drama, without tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31 1989
Nancy C. Brechin, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Morton Brown, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
James N. Cather, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
L. Ross Chambers, Marvin Felheim Distinguished University Professor of French and Comparative
Literature, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Thomas E. Crow Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1489
W. ReynoIds Farley, Professor of Sociology, with tenure sabbatical leave January 1 - May 31 1989
David N. Freedman, Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Biblical Studies and Professor of Near Eastern
Studies, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Monroe Z. Hafter, Professor of Spanish, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Dennis J. Hegyi, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Robert B. Helling, Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Melvin Hochster, Raymond L. Wilder Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1
- May 31, 1989
Erich P. Hofacker, Jr., Assistant Professor of German, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Sarah C. Humphreys, Professor of Greek, without tenure, Professor of History, with tenure, and
Professor of Anthropology, without tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1989
David C. Huntington, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31,
1989
M. Kent Jennings, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31,
1989
Deborah Keller-Cohen, Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 - May
31, 1989
Harold A. Korn, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1989
James A. Levinsohn, Assistant Professor of Economics, duty off campus, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Gordon M. MacAlpine, Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Leo F. McNamara, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Guy R. Mermier, Professor of French, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Walter D. Mignolo, Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - May 31, 1989
Harriet C. Mills, Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure, scholarly activity leave,
January 1 - December 31 1989
Maxwell K. Owusu, Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Robert G. Pachella, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Robert B. Payne, Professor of Zoology, with tenure, and Curator of Birds, Museum of Zoology,
sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1989
Carl M. Pearcy, Jr., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Martin J. Powers, Associate Professor of History of Art, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1 -
December 31, 1989
Larry J. Ruff, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
December 31, 1989
T. Michael Sanders, Professor of Physics with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Chung-Tuo Shih, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
Ronald G. Suny, Alex Manoogian Professor of Modern Armenian History, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - May 31, 1989
Alfred S. Sussman, Professor of Botany, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 - June 30, 1989
James G. Turner, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, scholarly activity
leave January 1 - December 31, 1989
Noel M. Valis Professor of Spanish, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31 1989
Alan M. Walcd, Professor of English, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Bruce H. Wilkinson, Professor of Geology and Mineralogy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May
31, 1989


-142 -



January Meeting, 1989


College o Engineerin
Raymond P. Canale,Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - December
31, 1989
Samuel K. Clark, Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with tenure, retirement
furlough, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Joseph Datsko, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -
December 31, 1989
Robert D. Hanson, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
Ramesh C. Jain, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Robert H. Kadlec, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
Elijah Kannatey-Asibu, Jr., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics, with
tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - December 31, 1989
Jeffrey K. Liker, Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
William R. Martin, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
N. Harris McClamroch, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Arch W. Naylor, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, sabbatical
leave January 1 - May 31, 1989
Henryk Skolimowski, Professor of Humanities, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - December 31,
1989
Wayne E. Stark, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1 - December 31, 1989
N. X. X. Vinh, Professor of Aerospace Engineering with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
William W. Willmarth, Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1
- May 31, 1989
Medical School
Robert J. Crossen, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology, extended sick leave, October 24, 1988 -
October 23, 1989
Luretta S. Deschner, Instructor in Anesthesiology, extended sick leave, December 17, 1988 - January 31,
1989
Rolf G. Freter, Professor of Microbiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1989
Raymond J. Hutchinson Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure,
sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1989
Robert P. Kelch, Chair and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1- March 31, 1989
Bernard Naylor, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1 - June 30, 1989
Albert J. Silverman, Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, retirement furlough, May 16 - August 31, 1988
Suzanne C. Swanson, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, leave without salary, October
17 - November 13,1988
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Lester Fader, Professor of Architecture, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 - May 31, 1989
School of Art
Kenneth W. Baird, Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Louis M. Marinaro, Assistant Professor of Art, sabbatical leave January 1 - May 31, 1989
Theodore K. Ramsay, Professor of Art, with tenure sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Allan J. Samuels, Professor of Art, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Richard L. Sears, Professor of Art, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 - December 31, 1989
School of Business Administration
Sudipto EBhattacharya, Professor of Finance, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Alfred L. Edwards, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 -
May 31 1989
George J. Siedel III, Professor of Business Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Arthur F. Southwick, Professor of Business Law, with tenure, and Professor of Health Services
Management and Policy, without tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 - May 31, 1989
School of Education
David L. Angus, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1 - June 30,1989
William M. Cave, Professor of Education, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Burton E. Voss, Professor of Science Education, with tenure, sabbatical Leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Garry R. Walz, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,1989


-143 -



January Meeting, 1989


School of Information and Libraryv Studies
Helen L. Snoke, Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Education, without tenure, retirement furlough, January 1- December 31, 1989
Law School
Douglas A. Kahn, Paul G. Kauper Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
Thomas E. Kauper, Henry M. Butzel Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
James J. White, Robert A. Sullivan Professor of Law, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
School of Music
Willis C. Patterson, Associate Dean and Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1989
H. Robert Reynolds Professor of Music, with tenure, and Lecturer in Education, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - May 31, 1989
Harry W. Sargous, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Michael W. Udow, Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
School of Natural Resources
Steven L. Yaffee, Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1989
School of Public Health
Jason L. Finkle, Professor of Population Planning, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 - May 31, 1989
James B. Martin, Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
School of Social Work
Barry N. Checkoway, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May
31, 1989
Norma L. Radin, Professor of Social Work, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 - December 31,
1989
Brett A. Seabury, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Thomas S. Cohn, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - April 30, 1989
Craig J. Donahue, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - April 30,
Michael A. Lachance, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 -
April 30, 1989
Edward M. Sayles, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - April 30, 1989
UM-Flint College ofArts and Sciences
Charles W. BaileyAssociate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
Anita K. Barry, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Virgil W. Cope, Professor of Chemistry with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31 1989
Nora H. Faires, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
William M. Marsh, Chair, Resources and Community Sciences, and Associate Professor of Physical
Geography, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1 - May 31, 1989
Tevfik F. Nas, Chair and Associate Professor og Economics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1989
Ellis B. Perlman, Professor of Political Science with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Bruce A. Rubenstein, Professor of History, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Jane Taylor, Professor of Biology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1 - MLay 31,1989
UM-Flint School of Health Sciences
Suzanne M. Selig, Coordinator and Associate Professor of Health Care, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
January 1 - June 30, 1989
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1988, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ronald 1. Rosen, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure


-144 -



January Meeting, 1989


Medical School
Joel M. Depper, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, December 1, 1988
Henry Gershowitz, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure
Thomas R. Gest, Assistant Professor of Anatomy and Cell Biology, January 6, 1989
Richard M. Levin, Clinical Associate Professor II of Anesthesiology, December 21, 1988
School of Dentistry
Robert Brodbelt, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, August 31, 1989
Jose Dos Santos, Jr., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
John M. Powers, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Philip Bartholomew, Assistant Professor of Economics, December 31, 1988
Retirement Memoirs
The Regents unanimously adopted the following retirement memoirs:
Robert M. Caddell, Professor of Mechanical Engineering in the College of
Engineering, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1988.
Professor Caddell received the Bronze Star and the Combat Infantryman's
Badge for his service as an infantryman in the United States Army from 1944-46.
Following his military service, he received his B.S. degree in mechanical engineering
from the Newark College of Engineering in 1948. While working as a test engineer for
the Curtiss-Wright Corporation, he obtained his M.S. degree in industrial engineering
from The University of Michigan in 1951. Professor Caddell then joined the
production engineering department as an instructor in 1952 and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1955. In 1959, he was appointed as lecturer in mechanical
engineering while he continued his studies. After completing his Ph.D. degree in
mechanical engineering in 1963, he rejoined the faculty as an assistant professor. He
was promoted to associate professor in 1964 and professor in 1971.
Professor Caddell's expertise is in materials and manufacturing, and he is noted
for his sound analysis and precise experimental verification. The results of his
extensive studies have been published in over 50 papers. His dedication to
engineering education is evidenced by his thorough teaching manner, his willingness to
direct students in numerous independent study projects, and his development of new
teaching materials, including three textbooks.
In recognition of his work, the National Science Foundation awarded Professor
Caddell a Science Faculty Fellowship in 1962. He has also received a DuPont
Grant-in-Aid, a Ford Foundation Faculty Development Grant, and a Welding
Research Council Grant-in-Aid. Professor Caddell has served on the honorary
editorial advisory board of the International Journal of Mechanical Sciences. He is a
member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Society for
Metals, Sigma Xi, and Pi Tau Sigma, and is a former member of the American Society
of Testing Materials. He was named Outstanding Mechanical Engineering Professor
in 1981 by Pi Tau Sigma, and, in 1982, he received the Outstanding Teacher Award
from the College of Engineering.
Professor Caddell's efficiency and enthusiasm have made him a valued member
of the University community. He has served on the University Court of Appeals,
Rackham Graduate School's Administrative Council, and the Advisory Committee on
Financial Affairs. Professor Caddell has also held the positions of graduate chair,
graduate and undergraduate counselor, course leader, laboratory supervisor, and has
served on numerous committees for the department.
The Regents now salute this distinguished professor for his many contributions
to education and research in materials and manufacturing and for his exemplary
-145 -



January Meeting, 1989


service to the University by naming Robert M. Caddell Professor Emeritus of
Mechanical Engineering.
Charles Cartwright, D.D.S., Assistant Dean and Professor of Dentistry in the
Department of Operative Dentistry, will retire from active faculty status on January
31, 1989.
Following service in the U.S. Navy during World War II, Dr. Cartwright
attended Eastern Michigan University and The University of Michigan. He received
his D.D.S. degree in 1952 and his M.S. degree in operative dentistry in 1960, both from
The University of Michigan. He joined The University of Michigan faculty as an
instructor in dentistry in 1958; he was promoted to assistant professor in 1960,
associate professor in 1965, and professor in 1969. He maintained his half-time
private practice until 1969.
Dr. Cartwright has had an active academic and administrative career. In
addition to his work as assistant dean and continuing education director, he served on
the School of Dentistry's executive committee, and on the curriculum, teaching,
student counseling, computer utilization, and occlusal tract committees.
University-wide, he chaired the broadcast committee and was a member of the Senate
Assembly and the periodic health committee. He has been president of the
Washtenaw District Dental Society and chair of the scientific advisory committee of
the Michigan Dental Association. He has also served on the Council of Dental
Faculties and the Continuing Education Section of the American Association of
Dental Schools, and has been a consultant to the Commission on Accreditation of the
American Dental Association. Other memberships include the American Association
of Dental Examiners, Central Conference for Continuing Dental Education, Eastern
Conference for Continuing Dental Education, Vedder Society of Crown and Bridge,
Academy of Operative Dentistry, and American Board of Operative Dentistry.
Dr. Cartwright's research interests have ranged from gold restorations ("A Study
of Gold and Foil and Mat Gold Restorations," "Cohesive Gold Condensing Methods"),
to pedagogical topics ("Use of Satellite in Teaching," "Twenty-Five Year Study of
Curriculum of Dentistry and Dental Hygiene"), to continuing dental education
("Continuing Dental Education Needs Assessment"). He has co-authored four books
in operative dentistry, and has published a number of articles in his areas of interest.
The best example of his dedication to public service has been Dr. Cartwright's
involvement over the years with Project HOPE, through which he helped plan and
establish health programs in South America.
Recently, Dr. Cartwright has shifted his focus to his work at the Northeast
Regional Board of Dentistry (NERB) in Washington, D.C. Originally appointed to
the NERB by the Michigan State Board of Dentistry in 1975 as an examiner and
examination consultant, Dr. Cartwright is now the NERB's executive director. He has
been directing his energies toward management and test development, and is in
charge of developing an interactive video program.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Charles Cartwright Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Robert H. Cojeen, Professor of Business Administration in the School of
Management at The University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 1988.
Following his service in the U.S. Army during World War II, Professor Cojeen
received his B.B.A. and M.B.A. degrees in accounting from The University of
Michigan in 1946 and 1947, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree in management from
Indiana University in 1955. Prior to returning to The University of Michigan, he


-146 -



January Meeting, 1989


taught for one year at the University of Florida and for eight years at the University of
Kentucky.
A member of The University of Michigan-Flint faculty since the campus opened
in 1956, Professor Cojeen established its business program and was its sole full-time
faculty member during the initial years. Promoted to full professor in 1961, he served
as department chair for nine years and worked toward separation of the business
program from the College of Arts and Sciences. This led to the establishment of the
School of Management in 1975. Professor Cojeen founded the business club, which is
The University of Michigan-Flint's first and longest-lived student club, and served as
its faculty advisor for 25 years. He was co-creator of the campus' Cooperative
Education Program, and also served on the planning committee for the MBA
program.
Drawing heavily on his Michigan experience, Professor Cojeen travelled to
Nigeria as a member of an eight-person professional team from the United States to
develop a business school at Ahmadu Bello University. His extensive participation in
community activities includes service as president of the Saginaw Valley Chapter of
the National Association of Accountants. In 1985, he was named Educator of the
Year by the Sales and Marketing Executives of Flint for his many contributions to
students, alumni, and professional groups.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his more than 32
years of dedicated service to The University of Michigan-Flint campus by naming
Robert H. Cojeen Professor Emeritus of Business Administration.
Henry Gershowitz, Professor of Human Genetics, retired from active faculty
status on December 31, 1988, following 32 years of service to The University of
Michigan.
A native of New York City, Professor Gershowitz received his B.A. degree from
Brooklyn College in 1949, his undergraduate education having been interrupted by his
service in the U.S. Army from 1943-46. After obtaining his Ph.D. degree from the
California Institute of Technology in 1954, he undertook three years of post-doctoral
work at the University of Wisconsin. He joined The University of Michigan as a
research associate in 1956; he was named instructor in 1959, and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1961, associate professor in 1967, and professor in 1970.
A well-known expert in the area of immunogenetics (more colloquially known
as blood typing), Professor Gershowitz has authored or co-authored some 74 papers
on the subject. He has also been active in the field of paternity testing, and has often
served as an expert witness in this sometimes contentious field. Within the University
community, he has been an important member of many departmental committees, as
well as having served as a technical consultant to The University of Michigan
Hospitals' Blood Bank, and a member of the Hospitals' transfusion committee. He
also served as a member of the parentage committee of the American Association of
Blood Banks.
Professor Gershowitz's work was marked by meticulous attention to the details
and nuances of his specialty; as a result, his papers and his testimony were seldom
challenged. Because of the importance of blood grouping in genetic studies of
pedigrees and populations, he interacted extensively with other members of the
department, working on a wide variety of the studies for which the department became
known in its early days. His lectures on immunogenetics, to both medical and
graduate students, were models of clarity and exposition; a steady stream of students
went through his laboratory for a "hands-on" experience after listening to his didactic
presentations.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist and teacher for his dedicated
service by naming Henry Gershowitz Professor Emeritus of Human Genetics.


-147 -



January Meeting, 1989


Margaret J. Hunter, Professor of Biological Chemistry in the Medical School
and Research Biophysicist, Biophysics Research Division, Institute for Science and
Technology, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1988, after a highly
productive career as a teacher and a scientific investigator.
A native of Scotland, Professor Hunter undertook undergraduate studies at the
University of Glasgow, where she received her B.Sc. degree in chemistry in 1943. She
received her Ph.D. degree from the Royal Technical College in Glasgow in 1948.
After completing her doctoral studies, Professor Hunter accepted a position as a
postdoctoral fellow at Harvard Medical School in 1948. She remained at Harvard
until 1962, where she held positions as research associate in physical chemistry, tutor
in biochemical sciences, and research associate, associate, and lecturer in the
Department of Biological Chemistry. She also served as an associate investigator at
the Protein Foundation, Inc. in Boston from 1961-62. In 1962, Professor Hunter came
to The University of Michigan as a research biophysicist in the Biophysics Research
Division at the Institute of Science and Technology. In 1963, she received the
additional appointment of associate professor in the Department of Biological
Chemistry. She was promoted to professor in 1979, and, in 1982, was also appointed
assistant dean for admissions at the Medical School.
Professor Hunter has been vigorous in research and in teaching, and has
contributed significantly to the current strength of the Department of Biological
Chemistry. She is widely known for her research in purification and mechanism of
action of certain proteins, with major emphasis on albumin and the macromolecular
inhibitor of plasma. In recognition of her excellence in teaching, Professor Hunter
received the Elizabeth C. Crosby Award in 1974.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist and health educator for her
dedicated service by naming Margaret J. Hunter Professor Emeritus of Biological
Chemistry.
John S. King, Professor of Nuclear Engineering in the College of Engineering,
retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1988.
Professor King received his A.B. degree from Princeton University in 1942 and
his B.S.E. degree in physics from The University of Michigan in 1948. He also
received his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from The University of Michigan in 1949 and
1953, respectively.
After receiving his Ph.D. degree Professor King accepted a position with the
General Electric Company, eventually serving as manager of reactor physics at the
Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory in Schenectady, New York. In 1959, he joined the
newly-formed Department of Nuclear Engineering at The University of Michigan as
associate professor; he was promoted to the rank of professor in 1961.
Professor King was instrumental in establishing an experimental program in the
study of materials through neutron spectroscopy that quickly became recognized
internationally for its quality and innovation. His research effort provided many
important insights in the lattice dynamics of crystalline materials and in the study of
polymer systems. The significance of these contributions was recognized by his
election as a Fellow in both the American Physical Society and the American Nuclear
Society. From 1974-79, Professor King served as chairman of the Department of
Nuclear Engineering, providing leadership for the department during an important
phase in its development.
Professor King has been particularly effective as a teacher at the graduate level,
having served as mentor for a large number of doctoral students who have carried on
his high standards of achievement in their own careers. He has served on many
national committees and boards, including terms on the board of directors of the
American Nuclear Society and as chairman of the users committee for the National


-148 -



January Meeting, 1989


Center for Small Angle Scattering Research. Professor King was selected to receive
an Excellence in Research Award from the College of Engineering in 1983.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming John S.
King Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering.
Ronald H. Rosen, Associate Professor of Mathematics, retired from active
faculty status on December 31, 1988.
Professor Rosen was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He received his B.A. degree
from Adelbert College, Western Reserve University, in 1955, and his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from the University of Wisconsin in 1957 and 1959, respectively. Professor
Rosen came to the Department of Mathematics at The University of Michigan in 1959
as an instructor. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1961 and to associate
professor in 1966.
Professor Rosen's early research was in continua theory. He then switched his
interests to low dimensional topology, where he made a number of significant
discoveries. In one of his most important papers, he proved that Euclidean 4-space
could be expressed as the topological product of the Euclidean line and a totally
non-Euclidean space. In recent years his research has been in graph theory. Professor
Rosen was a conscientious counselor of undergraduates and initiated the popular
Mathematics Career Fair. An avid chess player who held the rank of master,
Professor Rosen played a major role in chess activities in the midwest.
The Regents now salute this educator for his dedicated service by naming
Ronald H. Rosen Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics.
Memorials
Provost Vest noted the death on January 7, 1989 of Professor Manfred Kochen,
and stated that a memoir would be included with the February agenda. The Regents
also requested that a memorial be prepared for Dean Emeritus William Haber.
Degrees
On recommendation of the proper authority in each case, the Regents approved
amendments to previously approved degree lists.
Honorary degree recommendations. The Regents approved several
recommendations for recipients of honorary degrees.
University Endowment Fund Asset Allocation
Vice President Womack reviewed the discussion that had been held the past
November about strategic asset allocation, in which the primary objective is to reduce
risk and volatility. The session had concluded with a presentation on financial futures
and one of their potential uses as an implementation tool for tactical asset allocation.
The Regents are now being asked to consider two items which stem from the
November discussion: 1) Investment in the Common Fund's Global Bond Fund, and
2) Participation in the Common Fund's Planned Tactical Asset Allocation Overlay
Program.
Tactical Asset Allocation Overlay Program. Vice President Womack noted that
tactical asset allocation is a systematic and disciplined approach to adjusting the mix of
stocks, bonds, and cash equivalents in an investment fund. The adjustments in asset
allocation will be made with financial futures, without disturbing the University's


-149 -



January Meeting, 1989


common stock and bond managers, nor the underlying instruments themselves. The
Common Fund's overlay program will use two tactical asset allocation managers; it is
this planned program that is now under consideration. He then introduced the
Regents' investment counselor, Ned Joachimi of the Wellesley Group, and George
Keane and Curt Tobey of the Common Fund to answer questions.
Mr. Joachimi stated that he is in strong support of both of the Common Fund's
programs. Regent Roach wondered how the tactical asset allocation managers will
correlate their activities with the University's endowment managers. Mr. Keane
explained that the endowment managers' performance will be tracked monthly. Mr.
Herbert noted that the tactical asset allocation managers will not need information
about individual managers; they are only concerned with aggregate performance. He
and Vice President Womack also reminded the Regents that the equity managers are
not market timers; they follow their stated disciplines and will not shift from stocks to
cash. Regent Roach reiterated his concern that the tactical asset allocation program
be used only as a hedge. Vice President Womack said that the target is 50%, and will
never be 100%; the technique is being used to dampen volatility, not to significantly
adjust the return.
Regent Power commented that he was supportive of the proposal, but asked for
clarification of several points. In response, Vice President Womack cited the example
of what would have occurred in August of 1987, which was the high point of the
market. The strategy of tactical asset allocation at that time would have been to get
out of equities, regardless of what the individual endowment managers were doing. In
fact, managers were buying equities at that time. Regent Power pointed out that this
illustrates the distinction between asset allocation modulation as a hedge versus
selection of endowment managers to carry out the University's investment goals.
Regent Power then asked the investment advisors to comment on the following
proposition: While the asset allocation manager program and the tactical asset
allocation hedging program are both designed to reduce volatility, there are cases in
which the overlay of one on the other will increase volatility; namely the case in which
both the hedging strategy and the allowances for moving out of equities into cash
coincide within the disciplines.
Mr. Keane responded that if the managers are reducing their exposure to
common stock and the allocation strategy is also to reduce exposure to common stock,
they will tend to move in the same direction in terms of results. The difference is that
while the managers might move out of stocks only to the extent of 10-15% of the total
amount of money they manage, the asset allocation hedge might hedge out as much as
50%. Mr. Keane went on to cite the Common Fund's experience with its Strategic
Asset Allocation program during 1987. As stock prices rose that year, the tactical
asset allocation analysis began to reduce exposure to stocks in April, and by
September all stock market exposure had been hedged away by selling S&P 500
futures against stocks held in the portfolio. Meanwhile, stock prices continued to rise
strongly during April, May, June, July and August, causing the hedged portfolio to
underperform by a wide margin. When the market tumbled in October, however,
there was no loss on the hedged portfolio, while unhedged stocks dropped in price by
22%. Within a few days of the market drop the futures positions were closed out at a
very large profit, and normal stock exposure was restored. When the year ended, the
tactically hedged portfolio showed a rate of return for calendar 1987 of 29.3% versus
5.2% for the unhedged portfolio. He noted that because the University intends to


-150 -



January Meeting, 1989


apply this strategy to half of its endowment initially, the results for a portfolio that was
50% hedged would fall about halfway between these two outcomes.
Regent Power pointed out that the purpose of his question had been to
underscore the fact that tactical asset allocation could be expected to produce results
that will lag behind the results of unhedged portfolios for fairly extended time periods,
even though long-term results may ultimately demonstrate that the hedge had been
warranted. Regent Power requested that the example described by Mr. Keane be
cited in the minutes as an extremely helpful way of dealing with the tendency of the
Regents to use short-run incident as an attack on long-term policy.
Regent Power then asked why the tactical hedging program only hedges 50%.
Vice President Womack responded that the reason for this is the University's decision
to follow a conservative investment strategy. If the University were not concerned
with the short-term consequences of its investment actions, it would follow the
recommendations of nearly all studies and be invested 100% in small capitalization
equities. The University has deliberately chosen to follow a more conservative course
in avoiding exposure to short-term volatility in the market. Mr. Herbert pointed out
that not all of the University's assets are in stocks and bonds. Both Mr. Keane and Mr.
Joachimi noted their personal opinions that 100% investment in equities is the best
position. Vice President Womack added that as the Regents move to further diversify
the University's portfolio, this particular strategy will also take on a different
dimension.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
unanimously approved 1) that the University Endowment Fund participate in the
Common Fund's planned overlay program for tactical asset allocation; 2) that the
underlying securities in the University Endowment Fund continue to be managed
according to the policy approved in November, 1986; and 3) that the effective asset
allocation, taking into account any futures positions, be managed to the 70/30 equity
to fixed income target.
International Bond Investments
In response to a question from Regent Roach, Mr. Keane explained that this is
basically a hedge program, in which the Fund invests in foreign government bonds, in
Deutschemarks, and then hedges the currency exposure. If the manager has a strong
conviction that he can make money in currency, then he has the discretion to do that,
but at present, the currency exposure is under 50%.
If foreign and domestic bonds were both to move up or down together, volatility
would be increased, according to Mr. Keane. But the historical fact is that these
markets do not work this way, so that volatility is in fact reduced.
Regent Power moved that 1) the Common Fund's Global Bond Fund be
approved for use in the University's Endowment Fund, and 2) the asset allocation
policy for the University Endowment Fund be revised to reflect an allocation to
international bonds up to a maximum of one-third of the fixed income allocation.
Regent Varner seconded the motion.
Regent Power observed that the University, as a public institution, might be
criticized for investing in foreign bonds as opposed to American bonds. However, he
noted that it is the Regents' constitutional obligation to optimize the return on the


-151 -



January Meeting, 1989


assets held by the University, both in terms of net return and in reduction in volatility,
and the evidence indicates that the above strategies will do that. Secondly, he pointed
out that many large corporations headquartered in Michigan are investing significantly
abroad at a rate possibly greater than their domestic investments, which further
justifies the University's decision.
The vote was then taken, and the motion passed unanimously.
Operating Statements for WFUM-FM, WFUM-TV and WUOM/WVGR
The Regents received the Operating Statements for WFUM-FM, WFUM-TV
and WUOM/WVGR. Vice President Womack noted that Hazen Schumacher,
Director of Broadcasting, as well as others associated with the broadcasting stations,
were present to respond to questions.
Regent Brown inquired about the status of efforts to provide repeater antennas
for FM broadcast in the Upper Peninsula. Mr. Schumacher responded that although a
study had been undertaken and had found that this could be done, it had been decided
not to proceed with that service due to cost considerations. Regent Brown noted that
in the more populated areas of the central and western Upper Peninsula, the public
relations aspects of having better FM station coverage should not be overlooked. He
asked to review the report referred to by Mr. Schumacher.
In response to a comment from Regent Power, WUOM manager Joel Seguine
stated that the radio station is engaging in market research. He also noted that there
is a good deal of national research available about public radio listeners. Mr.
Schumacher noted that the Flint stations have also increased their market research
expenditures. Mr. Seguine informed Regent Power that the station does have a
strategic plan on which it is basing its actions; Regent Power asked for a copy of it.
Comments were also made about the elimination of University of Michigan
football and basketball coverage by WUOM as a result of the Athletic Department's
agreement with a commercial station to provide this coverage. Regent Roach
suggested that when the athletic broadcast agreement comes up for renewal, an effort
be made to enable WUOM to broadcast the games to the Ann Arbor market and let
the Flint and Grand Rapids stations broadcast other programs, perhaps originated at
Flint.
Mr. Schumacher observed that while the Flint stations now have independent
broadcast capability, the Grand Rapids station cannot be separated from the Ann
Arbor station; it has to carry whatever WUOM in Ann Arbor carries. He stated,
however, that Regent Roach's suggestion would be noted, in the event that new
technologies make it more feasible.
Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the
Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1988
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously adopted the Audited Financial Reports for WUOM/WVGR/
WFUM-FM and WFUM-TV for the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1988.


-152 -



January Meeting, 1989


Maternal and Child Health Center Shelled Space
Regent Power moved, and Regent Roach seconded, approval of a) the
submission of a Certificate of Need Amendment for completion of the shelled space in
levels B1 and 2 of the A. Alfred Taubman Health Care Center, and b) the
appointment of TMP Associates, Inc./Hansen Lind Meyer, P.C./Roger Margerum,
Inc. as architect/engineer. The motion was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals Medical Procedures Unit
The Regents next considered a recommendation to consolidate the procedures
for the diagnosis and treatment of digestive diseases into a comprehensive Medical
Procedures Unit (MPU), to be built above the Burn Unit on the second floor of
University Hospital. University Hospitals official J. Joseph Diederich displayed
architectural drawings of the exterior of the facility. On a motion by Regent Brown,
seconded by Regent Power, the Regents approved submission of a Certificate of Need
application to the Michigan Department of Public Health for the Medical Procedures
Unit, and the appointment of Albert Kahn Associates, Inc. as the project architect.
Off-Site Rehabilitation Program
This is a proposal by the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at
University Hospitals to establish an off-site inpatient rehabilitation program in
collaboration with Chelsea Community Hospital and an off-site comprehensive
outpatient rehabilitation program in collaboration with Kenny R.E.H.A.B., as
described in the Action Request. On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent
Power, the Regents unanimously approved the Off-Site Rehabilitation Program
proposal.
Substance Abuse Treatment Facility by UM Hospitals and UM Department of
Psychiatry
The Regents were next asked to approve using a portion of the University's
Radrick Farms property as the location for a substance abuse treatment facility to be
operated by the UM Hospitals and the Department of Psychiatry. Vice President
Womack noted that this proposed use of the property had been discussed with Fred
Matthei, Jr., whose family had donated the land to the University. The rest of the
family will also be so advised.
University Planner Fred Mayer then presented maps and drawings illustrating
the site location on the Radrick property. He also described alternative sites in local
communities that had been considered prior to selecting this one. Regent Power
pointed out that this site is the only large and substantially undeveloped site possessed
by the University, and warned against the possibility of piecemeal development. Mr.
Mayer noted that the recommended use is in keeping the Master Plan and has been
approved by planning consultants Johnson, Johnson and Roy.
In response to a question from Regent Roach regarding the high cost per square
foot of the proposed facility, Hospitals Executive Director John Forsythe noted that it
was to be a health care facility, as opposed to a residential facility, and that higher
costs are directly related to associated code requirements. Following further
discussion, Regent Roach moved to approve the Radrick Farms site for a substance
abuse treatment facility. Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was adopted, with


-153 -



January Meeting, 1989


Regents Brown, Nielsen, Roach, Varner, and Waters in favor and Regent Power
opposed.
UM Hospitals9 Operation of Nine Licensed Psychiatric Acute Beds for Substance
Abuse Patients
Dr. Zuidema explained that the Department of Psychiatry at University
Hospitals is currently operating nine beds for acute detoxification of patients, and that
it has been determined that a Certificate of Need is necessary in order to continue
operating the nine licensed beds in this manner. On a motion by Regent Nielsen,
seconded by Regent Power, the Regents unanimously approved submission of a
Certificate of Need to the Michigan Department of Public Health to operate nine
licensed psychiatric acute beds for substance abuse patients.
Central Power Plant-Boiler and Generator Installation; Glen Avenue Parking
Structure
The Regents unanimously approved increasing the budgets for the Central
Power Plant boiler and generator installation and the Glen Avenue Parking Structure
to cover financing costs.
Herbarium Renovation
The Regents unanimously approved a project to renovate the herbarium in the
North University Building.
Naming of New Chemical Sciences Facilities
The Regents voted unanimously to name the new chemical sciences facilities the
Willard Henry Dow Laboratory.
Michigan Student Assembly
At their meeting of July, 1988 the Regents had requested that Michigan Student
Assembly "begin immediate consultation with the Student Organization Development
Center (SODC) regarding developing specific ways and means of improving and
increasing its credibility, responsibility, and effectiveness on behalf of the respective
school/college governments and the student body as a whole", and that the outcomes
of these discussions be reported at the January 1989 Regents' Meeting. President
Duderstadt called on Vice President Johnson to report on this issue.
Vice President Johnson described contacts that had taken place during the Fall,
1988 term between the Student Organization Development Center and the leadership
of MSA. Despite the attempts of the SODC to establish a consultative relationship
with MSA, he described the results as "inconclusive", and noted that MSA had not
made a good faith effort to comply with the Regents' directive. He recommended that
the Regents delay any actions regarding MSA until the June 1989 meeting, because
some progress might occur following the election of new MSA officers in March.
Regent Power commented that he was "troubled and disturbed" by Vice
President Johnson's report, as he believes that having effective student governance
structures is important for the life of the University as a whole, and for the lives and
activities and interests of students. His directive had been proposed in an atmosphere


-154 -



January Meeting, 1989


of considerable unhappiness about MSA, as an effort to allow MSA to improve its
credibility. He did not find President Johnson's report encouraging, he continued, and
said that "it's too bad that those who make decisions in MSA have apparently chosen
to conduct their business in this way."
Vice President Johnson introduced Bradley Borland, acting director of the
SODC, who said that he concurred with Vice President Johnson's assessment. He felt
that SODC had made good faith efforts in working with MSA, but that over the past
few years MSA had been reluctant to take any advice from or to work with
organizations such as SODC.
Regent Roach suggested that Vice President Johnson begin to consider
alternative funding mechanisms and alternative organizational placements for
organizations currently funded through MSA, such as Student Legal Services, the
Tenants Union, and ADVICE. Regent Nielsen concurred with Regents Power and
Roach, and said that he suspected there would probably be little sentiment on the part
of the Regents to continue mandatory funding for MSA, which he characterized as an
"unfair tax on students".
The University of Michigan-Dearborn General Fund Budget Update
Chancellor Wilson informed the Regents that the General Fund Budget on the
Dearborn Campus has been brought into balance for the current fiscal year. She also
reported that she had appointed a Policy Council, consisting of faculty, students,
deans, the library director, and her staff, to advise her on budgetary and other issues.
Membership for UM-Dearborn in the American Association of State Colleges and
Universities
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents
unanimously approved membership for UM-Dearborn in the American Association of
State Colleges and Universities.
Student Rights Statement for University of Michigan-Flint Campus
In order to provide more time for the Regents to study this statement, this item
was withdrawn until the following month.
Radrick Farms Property
Regent Power commented that the Radrick Farms property is a very large
parcel, and the University's Master Plan only addresses it in a very general way. He
stated that he needs a context in which to think about the property, and would like to
have some generalized options presented for its use.
Vice President Womack and President Duderstadt agreed that such a report
would be helpful. Regent Brown concurred, and inquired whether the Hospital had
considered purchasing property outside of Ann Arbor for the substance abuse
treatment center. Vice Provost Zuidema responded that other parcels were
considered, included a location in Dexter. However, the cost of the clearances and
approvals that would be necessary, including $500,000 for a sewer line, were
prohibitive. In response to a question from Regent Nielsen, he said that a piece of
private property in another location had been considered, but the price was excessive.


-155 -



January Meeting, 1989


He also explained that proximity to the Ann Arbor campus was an important
consideration for the staff who would be working at the facility, since most of them
would be commuting on a part-time basis.
Regent Roach noted that it was important for the center to be located close
enough to the medical center for there to be clinical and staff interaction. While he
felt that a study of possible land use was appropriate, he pointed out that there was
sufficient room on this property for the proposed use. President Duderstadt reiterated
that it is important that the University develop a strategic plan for the Radrick
property.
The meeting was recessed until 4:00 P.M.
Public Comments
The Regents reassembled in the Anderson Room of the Michigan Union at 4:00
P.M., and heard comments from the following individuals about the topics indicated:
Chris Jones, of the Black Student Union, about establishing a Black student lounge;
Don Demetriades, President of the Graduate Employees Organization, about class
size; Mark Fratis, Judy Levy, Wendy Sharp, and an unidentified individual, LAGROC,
about AIDS; Nick Mavrick, student, about student abuse; and Zachary Kittrie,
student, about student involvement in issues.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Regents'
transportation, accommodation, telephone toll, and miscellaneous expenses payable in
the month of December, 1988 totalled $3,892.48.
ichar        ney, Secre


-156 -



FEBRUARY MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, February 16, 1989
The Regents met at 10:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President uderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Vest, and
Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, and Womack were also presents Coson, as was
Chancellor Wilson. Regent Waters and Chancellor Jones were absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order. He then turned the meeting
over to Vice President Womack.
Facilities Planning for Central Campus
Vice President Womack introduced University Planner Fred Mayer, who
described the history of planning efforts for the development of Central Campus. Mr.
Mayer described how following World War II, college enrollments began to increase
dramatically as more people gained access to education. These increased enrollments
coincided with the rapid increase in knowledge and changes in the technology of
education.
The University began acquisition of its North Campus property in the
late-1940's; a plan for North Campus was developed in the early 1950's. This was the
University's first attempt to plan for the changing nature of higher education. Medical
Center planning was first undertaken in the late 1950's. Planning for the Central
Campus area was undertaken in 1963, in an effort to develop a plan that would be
adaptable to changing programmatic requirements. Mr. Mayer described the various
aspects encompassed by the 1963 Master Plan, including the circulation system,
provision for open space, walkways between buildings and between different
subcampus areas, the organization of the total campus into subcampus areas, and the
relationship between the campus and the surrounding areas of the city. The
amalgamation of these elements, he continued, suggested a plan for development.
Planners have emphasized open space within each subcampus core as each has
developed.
Mr. Mayer then called on Mr. Richard Rigterink, principal of the firm of
Johnson, Johnson and Roy, to describe the Central Campus Master Plan, 1987
Update. Mr. Rigterink emphasized that the 1987 update is meant to cover a time span
of approximately 20 years. Its purpose is to provide a flexible framework for
accommodating and incorporating physical development. Mr. Rigterink gave a slide
presentation describing details of the 1987 updated master plan. Major points of the
plan include working with the city to better define the several entrance points to the
University, and to consider the closure of portions of two streets: Monroe Street
between Oakland and State, and Madison Street between Thompson and Packard.
In response to a question from Regent Baker about the entrance to the
University in the vicinity of Forest Avenue and Washtenaw. Mr. Rigterink stated that


-157 -



February Meeting, 1989


there needs to be cooperation between the city and the University to ensure that all
systems coordinate and to allow successful mutual development.
Mr. Rigterink then went on to detail all of the areas on campus where there is
potential for expansion and for improved open space development. Regent Roach
asked about the possibility of replacing the aluminum siding on the Legal Research
Building. Mr. Rigterink explained that the cost for doing this had been considered
prohibitive. Regent Roach responded that he hoped that funding could be identified
to undertake that project.
Mr. Rigterink identified the completion of Ingalls Mall as a high priority project.
He noted that expanding this mall into the central Diag area would have a major,
positive impact on the Central Campus/Diag area. One of the limitations to
expansion of the mall, however, is that the city will not allow the closure of North
University Street because it feels that this street is a critical part of the city's
circulation system. Responding to a suggestion from Regent Power, he said that it
would not be feasible to sink North University and have a street-level overpass
because of the presence of under-street utilities. The proposed solution is to use
special paving on the street crossing from one side of Ingalls Mall to the other to
emphasize pedestrian priority. President Duderstadt pointed out that there are safety
concerns in this area as well.
Provost Vest then gave a description the current status of central campus
facilities, emphasizing how academic programming becomes linked with the physical
planning structure. Regent Baker advised that when doing facilities planning, the
costs of the academic programs, as well as of the facilities, should be taken into
account.
Regent Roach asked why space requirements continue to increase even though
enrollment has declined by 3,000 students since he's been on the Board. In particular,
he noted that when departments are temporarily relocated to other buildings while
their own space is being renovated, the space used temporarily is rarely returned to its
original use. He cited the examples of West Quad and Lorch Hall, both of which have
been used as temporary quarters for several departments undergoing renovation, and
have not yet been returned to their original use. He emphasized his understanding
that West Quad would eventually be returned to dormitory use.
President Duderstadt pointed out that one reason for the continually increasing
space needs is that the function of the University has changed in recent years. The
University is conducting a much greater volume of research now than it did twenty
years ago, and research requires more space than other building uses. That accounts
for the increased space requirements that have been provided for units such as health
sciences and engineering. On the other hand, space provided for the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts has not been increased for twenty years, even though
particular departments in the sciences have had the need for additional space. This
has resulted in the College's having borne the brunt of the University's investments in
other areas, to the point where its space is currently not only inadequate, but is tightly
constraining for many programs. The administration has recently and will continue to
focus on addressing these problems.
President Duderstadt acknowledged that institutions often have difficulty in
releasing inadequate space once they have provided better space. To deal with this,
he believes that the actual operating costs of space need to be reflected much more


-158 -



February Meeting, 1989


precisely in the overall considerations of the budgets provided for academic units, so
that positive and negative incentives are built into the system when decisions are made
about space. He pointed out that this is now being done in certain areas of the
Medical School, where space is at a premium.
Provost Vest noted that over the last decade there has been a major shift across
many disciplines from doing primarily theoretical work into experimentation. This has
led to demands for sophisticated laboratory and computer facilities, all of which
require substantial space.
Regent Roach reiterated the importance he places on returning West Quad to
residential use. Regent Power suggested that it might be useful to pursue a project
relating size of space to function (laboratories, offices, libraries, etc.) and to program,
and relate those to volume of usage (enrollments, research expenditures, numbers of
computing stations, etc.) in order to develop an input/output matrix. This would allow
the capacity for tracking trends over time and would provide a way to force priority
choices to be made.
President Duderstadt responded that in the new Chemical Sciences facility, the
allocation of space is productivity-based. Certain constraints have been put into place
as to how that space will be assigned: Certain levels of student activity and research
activity will have to be met in order to earn space in that new wing.
The meeting was recessed.
Thursday, February 16, 1989
The meeting reconvened at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Vest, and
Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters was absent.
1989-90 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
President Duderstadt turned the meeting over to Vice President Johnson, who
introduced Robert Hughes, Director of University Housing.
Mr. Hughes explained that the proposed rate increases of 6.3% for residence
halls and 5.9% for family housing apartments were recommended by the student-staff
rate study committees and supported by the Housing Division. He explained that a
portion of the increase will be allocated for capital improvements, with a goal of
having a building inventory that will have a remaining useful life of 30 years by the
year 2000. An equal portion of the increase (7%) is slated for funding start-up of a
multi-phase comprehensive recycling and waste reduction program for the Housing
division, per the recommendation of the Solid Waste Management Task Force. The
purpose of the task force was to develop an integrated solid waste management
program for the 15,000-member Housing community. Student interest in recycling
had led to the formation of this task force, which is made up of students, Plant
Department and Housing staff, and personnel from the School of Natural Resources,
Recycle Ann Arbor, and Resource Recycling Systems, Inc. He stated that this was the
-159 -



February Meeting, 1989


first comprehensive waste reduction and recycling effort undertaken at the University,
and would help address the city's growing solid waste disposal problem.
Recycling Program. Mr. Hughes then gave a presentation detailing the current
situation with respect to solid waste generation and management, noting that Housing
contributes 46% of the waste generated at the University (not including the Hospitals,
the Michigan Union, or hazardous waste). Phase I of the multi-phased,
comprehensive recycling and waste reduction program will be aimed at paper waste,
which makes up 20% of the total volume of Housing's waste. In response to a
question from Regent Baker, Mr. Hughes said that the program's total recurring
annual cost for Housing will be $150,000, and the one-time start-up cost will be
$200,000. The funds generated from the portion of the housing fee increase dedicated
to this program will equal the program's expenditures.
Housing Rates. Mr. Hughes continued his presentation with comparisons of the
University's housing rates with those of other institutions. In response to a question
from Regent Brown, he said that the lower rates charged by Michigan State are due to
the difference in the cost of living between East Lansing and Ann Arbor. He also
noted that the University's insurance and workers' compensation costs are the highest
of any school in the Big 10.
President Duderstadt noted that action on the housing rate increase would
occur the next day. In response to Regents' questions, consultant Jim Frey said that
constructing facilities to incinerate paper waste is unwise because the many unknowns
associated with the technology could lead to the facilities' being inoperable after they
were built. Even in the combustion of paper, he noted, there are hazardous wastes.
He said that plans call for the Plant Department to take newsprint and corrugated
cardboard to Recycle Ann Arbor, but eventually the University should consider
constructing its own transfer and/or processing facility which would allow it to sell
recycled materials directly to buyers.
Regent Baker observed that the cost of the recycling program equals $24, or
12% of the proposed $214 increase in the cost of University housing, and that tuition
and other fees are also expected to increase. The cost of housing equals 40% of total
educational costs, he continued, and that the University needs to find ways of
economizing and controlling the cost of higher education. Regent Power responded
that the Task Force on the Cost of Higher Education will directly address those
concerns.
Regent Varner noted that the University only provides housing for one-third of
its students, and asked whether that was typical of the University's peer institutions.
Mr. Hughes responded that this figure varies among institutions, but that the
University has traditionally housed about one-third of its students. In response to a
comment from Regent Power, Provost Vest said that a working group has been
formed to do a preliminary analysis of issues related to housing policy, and that this
group's report will serve as a basis for the work of a task force. He noted that the first
question raised by the working group was "What is the role of the University in the
housing of its students?" Mr. Hughes said that 42% of University housing is taken up
by returning students, with the remainder being used by freshmen.
Following further discussion, Regent Baker asked that an analysis of costs of the
proposed recycling program and of the high insurance costs that have led to increases
in housing rates be provided to the Regents.


-160 -



February Meeting, 1989


Student Rights Statement for the University of Michigan-Flint Campus
Chancellor Jones explained that the proposed Student Rights Statement for the
University of Michigan-Flint campus had been initiated by students and had been
reviewed    approved by all of the appropriate student, faculty, and administrative
bodies on the Flint campus. It had also undergone review by the General Counsel's
office.
Regent Nielsen moved, seconded by Regent Varner, that the Regents approve
the University of Michigan-Flint Campus' Student Rights Statement. Regent Smith
commented that she was concerned with item 10(e) under the heading of
"Non-Academic Procedural Rights", which states that one of the sanctions that may be
employed by the hearing board is "restitution for damages or other financial loss". She
cited a lawsuit currently in litigation in which a student is suing the University for
"damages for a state action depriving him of due process and other rights guaranteed
by the federal and state constitutions and laws" and "damages for libel", because the
University had set a $600 damage determination against the student. Regent Smith
said that in her opinion, monetary sanctions should be the province of the courts. The
proposal as written stimulates controversy and invites litigation, she believes, and she
said she would not support the motion.
Robert Kinney, Dean for Student Services at UM-Flint, responded that the
provision referred to by Regent Smith provides due process rights, and its intent is to
protect the University from litigation. Regent Nielsen concurred that such a provision
not by an arbitrary decision-maker. Dean Kinney pointed out that individuals still
would be able to sue, but in this cashe University would have the defense that it had
provided due process. Chancellor Jones confirmed that every attempt was made to
ensure that due process was provided for, and that the document had undergone
extensive review by counsel.
Regent Baker inquired whether the policy contains provisions that protect
people from false accusations and to preserve freedom of speech, and whether there
were areas set aside in which the rules did not apply, as provided in the "Statement on
Freedom of Speech and Artistic Expression" adopted by the Regents.
Dean Kinney said that the policy does incorporate the statement on freedom of
speech, but that there is not currently an area identified on the Flint campus as a "free
speech zone". In response to another question from Regent Baker, he pointed out
provision 2(b) under "Non-Academic Rights", which states that "Editors, managers,
and writers must subscribe to the standards of responsible journalism. At the same
time, they are protected from arbitrary suspension and removal because of student,
faculty, administrative, or public disapproval of editorial policy or content."
Regent Baker pointed out that certain student publications on the Ann Arbor
campus are completely exempted from the rules, and that he feels there should be
some consistency across campus in policies that deal with free speech issues. The right
of free speech must be protected, he noted, particularly for the press, and that the
direction should be to make things more open, rather than more closed.
Chancellor Jones asserted that Regent Baker's opinion exactly expresses the
intention of the drafters of the policy, and that students feel quite strongly about this
student-initiated statement. Regent Roach noted that the provisions referred to by


-161 -



February Meeting, 1989


Regent Baker are contained in the Ann Arbor Campus' "Statement on Freedom of
Speech and Artistic Expression", which is incorporated by reference in the Flint
document.
Regent Power stated that he supports the document. However, he pointed out a
developing problem related to the conflict between free speech for news media and
academic freedom for faculty and staff. He cited a case on the Ann Arbor campus in
which a professor made remarks in class that offended certain people, and the way in
which this incident was reported in the Michigan Daily. The issue of the
appropriateness of what the professor actually said has been superseded by fact that a
newspaper has chosen to cover the incident in certain ways. He cautioned that the
University is entering into areas that have very significant consequences, and that he is
not sure that the rights of both the professor in his classroom and the rights of the
students to be protected from harassment have been fully protected.
Regent Nielsen expressed his desire that there be uniformity across campuses,
and that he was confident that the present administrations are capable of
administering the policies. His concern is that successor administrators may not have
equivalent experience, and that there needs to be a mechanism for the Regents to
monitor them. Therefore, he moved to amend his motion to add a provision that "any
disciplinary actions that are commenced, initiated, and disposed of be transmitted to
the Regents on a regular basis". Reports could be quarterly, semi-annual, or annual,
depending on the volume of cases. Discussion followed about the need for such
reports.
Regent Baker pointed out that the discussion had brought up two cases, one in
which the procedure may not have worked ted the example cited by Regent Power), and
that oer ither in which the procedure in his opinion did not work. [The latter incident
involved a preacher who had uttered offensive speech on the Diag and whose free
speech rights were subsequently denied by the Michigan Student Assembly.] He noted
that the Diag is expressly reserved as a free speech area. "How can you have a great
University that limits the freedom of speech?," he asked.
Regent Roach noted that in neither case cited by Regent Baker were the
University's disciplinary rules invoked; the denial of free speech rights in the case of
the preacher was invoked by the student government, not through the University's
policies.
In support of Regent Nielsen's amendment, Regent Power said that it is
important that the Regents be ntkept informed about how the University's disciplinary
policies are working out. President Duderstadt observed that many universities are
attempting to grapple with this type of policy, and that the administration has an
obligation to apprise the Regents at regular intervals of how they are working out.
Regent Baker reiterated his concern as to how the Diag preacher's free speech
rights could be reinstated. President Duderstadt pointed out that the preacher still has
the right to speak, but that his organization's status as a student organization has been
withdrawn by the Michigan Student Assembly. Vice President Johnson said that he
had informed the student organization that it has the option to go to the central
student judiciary, and also that it could file a complaint under the discriminatory
harassment policy.


-162 -



February Meeting, 1989


Regent Roach restated Regent Nielsen's amendment to the original motion to
read that "the Regents receive periodic reports concerning the program", and
seconded it. Regent Baker said that he intended to abstain, and repeated his question,
"How can you have a great university that restricts free speech?" The vote was taken
on the amendment, and it passed, with Regents Power and Smith opposed, Regent
Baker abstaining, and Regents Brown, Nielsen, Roach, and Varner in favor.
The vote was then taken on the original motion, and it passed, with Regent
Baker abstaining, Regent Smith opposed, and Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
and Varner in favor.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
approved the Minutes of the meeting on January 19, 1989.
Reports
University Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory as of 12/31/88. Vice
President Womack announced that the market value of the Endowment Fund on
December 31, 1988 was $375 million. He also noted that the return for the one year
ending December 31, 1988 on the combined portfolio of the common stock managers
was 4.2 percentage points above the performance guidelines, and that of the five
managers retained for the full calendar year, all but the Boston Company had
exceeded the performance guideline. He said that his office is closely monitoring the
Boston Company's performance, and described how this is done.
Vice President Womack also reviewed the reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations.
Vice President Wilson submitted reports on Research Volume Statistics,
Projects Established from December 1, 1988 through January 31, 1989, and
Summaries of a Selection of Current Research. She also announced that the
University has received a total of $12 million for hazardous waste management
research, sponsored by the Environmental Protection Agency, in which the University
will collaborate with Michigan State University and Howard University. Other
projects in this area will be funded by the National Institutes of Environmental Health
and Safety, the Michigan Oil and Gas Corporation, and Dow Chemical Company.
With these awards, the University is becoming a national center for hazardous waste
management research.
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents voted
to receive these reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Reports of Gifts Received for January,
1989. The following gifts were received with thanks and in accordance with their
terms and conditions:


-163 -



February Meeting, 1989


Abbott Laboratories, North Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      15,000
Robert B. Aikens, Troy
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   25,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy           89,131
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             17,500
American Friends of the Vatican Library, Grosse Pointe Farms
for support of the Michigan Historical Collections                            6,500
AT&T Foundation, New York, ew York
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering              13,600
Louis G. Baldacci, Atherton, California
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics     30,000
Betz Foundry, Inc., Grand Rapids
for support of the College of Engineering, and the Department of Athletics   10,000
B. F. Goodrich Company, Cleveland Ohio
for support ofthe College of Engineering                                     40,000
Maurice S. Bihkow, Detroit
150 shares of Automatic Data Processing common stock; for support of the Law School
and the College of Literature Science, and the Arts, and for the Maurice and Linda
Binkow Fund m the School of Music                                             5,906
Russell S. Bishop III Incline Village, Nevada
300 shares of Nevada National Bank Corporation convertible preferred stock; for
support of the School of Business Administration                              5,475
Centocor, Inc. Malvern, Pennsylvania
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School                           6,000
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics     20,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           10,875
Community Living Trust, Pomona, California
for gifts pending designation                                                50,000
Coopers & Lybrand Foundation New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   9,705
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation Inc., New York New York
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Cygnus Research Corporation, Redwood City, California
for support of the College of Pharmacy                                       11,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           23,674
Helen Curtis Davis, Kane, Pennsylvania
cash gift as an additional donor pooled income contribution for the ultimate benefit of
the School of Education                                                       5,000
Peter C. Dendrinos, Traverse City
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics     20,000
William T. and Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Department of Athletics, the School of Business
Admnimstration, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the Medical
School, and the University Musical Society                                   10,580
Mr. and Mrs. Arthur W. Ehrlicher, Sarasota, Florida
pledge payment for meeting space restoration and furnishings for the School of
Information and Library Studies                                              30,000
William E. Ely Trust
for support of the Alumni Association                                        12,527
Lloyd C. Fe, Cheboygan
pledge payment for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship
m the Law School                                                              5,000
W. Hawkins Ferry Estate
for support of the Museum of Art                                            400,000
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the Crosby-Kahn Professorship in Neurosurgery, in the Medical School     10,000
Fremont Area Foundation, Fremont
for research in the Medical School                                           19,868
Grundy Industries, Inc., Joliet, Illinois
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                     5,000
Frank B. Hall & Company, Inc., Briarcliff Manor, New York
for support of the Medical School                                            10,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           97,937
-164 -



February Meeting, 1989


International Business Machines Corporation, New Haven, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  22,044
Caroline B. Jobst, Perrysburg Ohio
13,500 shares of Bristol-Myers Company common stock; for the Caroline B. Jobst
Fund in the Medical School                                                  611,719
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            7,250
Max Kade Foundation Inc., New York, New York
for the Max Kade Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts     5,000
Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation, Menlo Park California
for research in the School of Public Health                                  58,769
Kenny Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           12,094
Patricia Piatt Lawson Ann Arbor
200 shares of (reif Brothers, and 51 shares of Johnson Controls common stocks;
a donor pooled income contribution, for the ultimate benefit of the Patricia Piatt
Lawson Scholarship in the Michigan League                                    10,019
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for Southeast Asian studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  120,000
Monroe D. MacPherson, Westfield, New Jersey
100 shares of Exxon Corporation common stock, and cash gift of $500; for support of
the School of Education, and the College of Engineering                       5,025
John P. McAndrews, Birmingham
for unrestricted support of the School of Business Administration             5,000
Curtis W. McGraw Foundation, Princeton New Jersey
for the Arthur Webster Memorial Fund in the Law School                       10,000
George Meader, Washington, D.C.
for unrestricted support of the Law School and for the Michigan Historical Collections  9,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for East Asian studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  155,708
Michigan State Bar Foundation, Lansing
pledge payment for the Institute of Continuing Legal Education in the Law School  8,000
Midland Company, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                    10,000
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers' Association of the United States, Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology      221,438
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                   400,000
Mary E. Mulholland Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,355
John S. and Suzanne C. Munn South Bend, Indiana
2,800 shares of Lubrizol Corporation common stock and cash gift of $6,000; pledge
payment for the John S. and Suzanne C. Munn Fund in the Medical School      105,575
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           24,856
Gregor N. Neff, Dobbs Ferry, New York
for scholarships and other support in the Law School                          5,500
Donald E. Nordlund Barrington Hs, Illinois
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    5,000
Wilfred C. Oestrike, Indianapolis Indiana
for aerospace facilities in the College of Engineering                        5,000
Charles K. Olcott, Lake Wells, Florida
430 shares of Canberra Industries, Inc., common stock; for ophthalmology support in
the Medical School                                                            9,998
Osterman Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan         5,000
D. Ann Pearson San Francisco, California
for the William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship and other support in the School of
Business Administration                                                      10,000
Mr. and Mrs. George F. Raven, Los Altos California
for the Class of 1938 Engineering Fund                                        7,500
Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Trust
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                      6,178
Research Corporation, Tucson Arizona
for physics research in tie College of Literature, Science, and the Arts     23,000
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
for the John Rich Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  10,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for a symposium on politics and population policies in the School of Public Health  40,000
-165 -



February Meeting, 1989


Sage Foundation, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   10,000
Schering Corporation, Keilworth, New Jersey
for fellowships and other support in the College of Pharmacy                 15,500
Werner W. Schroeder Estate
for the Gerald R. Ford Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  7,991
Searle Family Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for support of the College of Pharmacy                                       15,000
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       10,173
Sherwin-Williams Company, Chicago, Illinois
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology        5,000
Bruce H. Simpson Trust, Dearborn
for the-Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane                                        5,000
Mr. and Mrs. George E. Sperling, Jr., Santa Monica, California
100 shares of RJR Nabisco, Inc., common stock; for the George E. and Elizabeth
Sperling Endowment in the Law School                                          8,988
Steelcase, Inc. Grand Rapids
for the Manufacturmg Forum in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Port Huron
for support of the School of Business Administration                          5,000
Esther C. Stone Charitable Trust, Flint
for the Esther C. Stone Fund, the University of Michigan-Flint               10,085
William P. Sutter, Ocean Ridge, Florida
pledge payment for support of the Law School                                  5,000
A. Alfred Taubman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                  500,000
Arthur Thurnau Charitable Trust
for support of teaching and research activities, the University of Michigan  177,959
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund, New York, New York
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                    20,000
Traverse Group, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Jack A. Borchardt Fellowship in the College of Engineering            5,000
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, St. Joseph
for support of the Clements Library, and for Employee Matching Gifts          6,000
Robert Vanderkloot, Bloomfield Hills
pledge payments for support of the Medical School                             9,000
Thomas W. Van Dyke, Prairie Village, Kansas
for the Roy P. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School  5,000
Ronald R. Wade, Jr., Toledo, Ohio
for unrestricted student financial aid                                        5,000
James A. Walgreen Deerfield, Illinois
325 shares of Walgreen Company common stock; for the Stearns Collection of
Musical Instruments in the School of Music                                    9,953
Gary T. Walther, Winnetka Illinois
pledge payment for financial aid and other support in the School of Business
Administration                                                                5,500
Ronald 0. Warner, Flint
100 shares of Dow Chemical common stock; an additional charitable remainder
unitrust contribution, for the ultimate benefit of the School of Social Work  8,731
Malcolm D. Wheeler Estate
for the Pearl Wheeler Memorial Scholarship in the College of Engineering    110,000
Max E. Wildman, Lake Bluff, Illinois
100 shares of Nynex Corporation common stock; for the Wildman, Harrold, Allen,
and Dixon Scholarship in the Law School                                       6,838
William J. Williams, Ann Arbor
for support of the College of Engineering                                     5,000
Ian Robert G. Thevenet Wilson, Norman, Oklahoma
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts              10,000
W. Tom Zur Schmiede Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
pledge payment for the School of Business Administration                      5,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Emma W. Alexander, Ann Arbor
a selection of lithographs and prints by various artists; for the Museum of Art
American Abstract Artists, Princeton, New Jersey
a portfolio of prints (1987); for the Museum of Art
-166 -



February Meeting, 1989


Luiz V. Boffi, Dearborn
254 Engineering text books; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Mardigian Library
Richard and Vee LingEdwards, Ann Arbor
a Sung Dynasty Chinese painting, "Mountain Freshet - Wind and Rain", ink and color on silk; for
the Museum of Art
General Motors Corporation, Research Laboratories, Warren
a helium bubble generator; for the Department of Mechanical Engineering and Applied Mechanics
Elizabeth Needham Graham, Ann Arbor
a Miller Victorian, reed organ and stool; for the School of Music
Rolf Hartung, Ann Arbor
equipment for aquatic toxicity studies; for the School of Public Health
Eugene Kuthy, Detroit
111 books; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Mardigian Library
Irving and Shirley G. Levitt Bloomfield Hills
a Frederick Porter Vinton oil painting, "Theodore Chase"; for the Museum of Art
Lynn Ramboff, Dearborn Heights
60 books, and the 5th edition of Van Nostrand's Scientific Encyclopedia; for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn; Mardigan Library
Jean and Hilbert Sosin, West Bloomfield
a Ken Pieper glass sculpture- for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, Mardigian Library
Alice Yan and Chien-Yien Ti, Ypsilanti
a Zenith personal computer and accessories; for the Institute of Gerontology
Alexander P. Tslgdinos, San Francisco, California
240 chemistry and chemical engineering texbooks, and over 100 issues of journals; for the
Department of Chemical Engineering
Dr. and Mrs. Paul W. Wang, Richland
a 15th century Japanese hanging scroll, "Rasetsu-ten"; for the Museum of Art
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1989
Douglas L. Medin, Ph.D., Professor of Psychology
Marton B. Ross, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Eniglish
Lynn M. Walter, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Geological Sciences
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective March 1, 1989
Frank H. Mackaman, Ph.D., Professor of History
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective January 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Lynn A. Conway Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and Associate
Dean, College of Engineering, reappointed Associate Dean for Instruction and Instructional
Technology, College of Engineering, July 1, 1988 - December 31, 1989
Samuel J. Eldersveld, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, reappointed to active status
Wilfred Kaplan, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to active status
George Kish, Professor Emeritus of Geography, reappointed to active status
Milton Tamres, Professor Emeritus of Chemistry reappointed to active status
Thomas E. Toon, Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, Associate
Professor of Linguistics, with tenure and Director of the Program in Linguistics, reappointed
Director of the Program in Linguistics, for a four-year term, July 1, 1989


-167 -



February Meeting, 1989


JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Donald W. Boys Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed Chair, Department of
Physics7/Engineering Science, UM-Flnt, January 1, 1989 - June 30, 1992
Richard I. Ford, from Professor of Anthropology with tenure, Professor of Botany, without tenure, and
Associate Dean for Research, College of Literature Science, and the Arts, to Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure, Professor of Botany, without tenure, and Chair, Department of
Anthropology, for a four-year term, September 1 1989
Edward M. Gramlich Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, appointed Chair,
Department of Economics for a two-year term, July 1, 1989
Richard E. Nisbett, Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Research
Scientist, Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute for Social Research, appointed Acting
Director, Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute for Social Research' February 1, 1989
Michael A. Savageau, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School,
appointed Professor of Chemical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, for a
three-year term, February 1, 1989
The following committee appointments were approved:
Alumni Association Distinguished Alumni Service Board Selections Committee
Gertrude V. Huebner, to succeed herself for a one-year term, September 1,1989 to August 31, 1989
School of Education Executive Committee
Janet H. Lawrence, to complete the term through June 30, 1989, vice Burton E. Voss, on sabbatical
Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
James J. Duderstadt, through the period October 31, 1989, vice Harold T. Shapiro, resigned
James J. Duderstadt, to succeed himself for a five-year term, November 1, 1989 to October 31, 1994
UM-Flint Channel 28 Communitv Advisorv Board
Reappointments of Community Advisory Board for Channel 28 Television for a three-year period:
Lewis Morrissey
Dilys Price
Thomas Rutledge
Karen Sherrin
Nancy Tyler
New appointments of Community Advisory Board for Channel 28 Television for a three-year period:
Chuck Coggins
Chris Flores
Vivian Gottlieb
John McGarry
Mary E. Schultz
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Robert W. Heywood, for the period January 1, 1989 through June 30, 1989, vice Charles W. Bailey, on
sabbatical
Dow Corning Assistant Professorship in Chemical Engineering. The Regents
approved the establishment of the Dow Corning Assistant Professorship in Chemical
Engineering as a named professorship, effective February 1, 1989. The professorship
will be shared between the Department of Chemistry in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Departments of Chemical Engineering or Materials and
Science Engineering in the College of Engineering.
Leave of Absence. The Regents approved a retroactive extension of a scholarly
activity leave for J. Albert Bailey, Lecturer in History, UM-Dearborn, for 1987-88.
Personnel Reports
The following Personnel Reports were received by the Regents:
-168 -



February Meeting, 1989


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Jeffery S. Abarbanell MA., Lecturer in Accounting
Stephen C. Pirrong, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy
College of Eneineein
Atul Prakash, Ph.D. Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
Stuart Sechrest, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineerng and Computer Science
School of Information and Librarv Sciences
Amy J. Warner, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information and Library Sciences
Collee of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Schon L. Beechler, BA., Lecturer in Sociology
Michael J. Flannagen, BA., Lecturer in Psychology
Medical School
Ahmet R. Bengur, M.D., Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
G. Keith Mulholland, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, December 1, 1988
School of Nursing
Donna L. Algase, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing
School of Public Health
Cathleen M. Connell, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
School of Dentistrv
James L. Lockwood, D.D.S., from Clinical Instructor I to Lecturer in Dentistry, January 1, 1989
Medical School
Stephen P. Ethier, Ph.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, August 1, 1988
School of Nursine
Karen F. Stein, Ph.D., from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing, July 1, 1988
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
William J. Scott, Jr., Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1989
Colleae of Engineerine
Jay Elkerton, Assistant Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, extended sick leave,
October 31 - December 12 1988
Robert D. Hanson, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, Intergovernmental Personnel
Assignment, January 1, 1989 - December 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bruce M. Hill Professor of tatistcs, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1989
John Jonides, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, leave without salary, January 1 - May 31, 1989
John F. Kolars, Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, Intergovernmental Personnel
Assignment, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Jean B. Mann, Lecturer in Studies n Religion and Psychology, extended sick leave, January 1 - April 30,
1989
James I. Porter, Assistant Professor of Greek, Latin, and Comparative Literature, scholarly activity leave,
January 1 - December 31, 1989
Medical School
Trygve 0. Gabrielsen, Professor of Radiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - June 30, 1989
Caryl J. Heaton, Instructor in Family Practice, extended sick leave, December 1, 1988 - January 20, 1989
Garth W. Jones, Associate Professor of Microbiology, with tenure, duty off campus, January 1 - May 31,
1989
-169 -



February Meeting, 1989


Eileen M. Murphy, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, leave without salary, December
27, 1988 - January 22 1989
Henry H. Swain, Assistant bean for Faculty Affairs and Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure,
retirement furlough, January - February 28, 1989
School of Music
Judith 0. Becker, Professor of Music, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
College of Pharmacy
Jennifer B. Dressman, Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics, duty off campus, February 1 - March 11,
1989
School of Public Health
Joel A. Grinker,Pr sor of Human Nutrition with tenure and Professor of Nutmati, with tenuDepartment of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, without tenure, sabbatical leave, January
1 - May 31, 1989
Charles R. Hammerslough, Assistant Professor of Population Planning and International Health,
scholarly activity leave, January 1 - December 31, 1989
Fred C. Munson, Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with tenure, duty off campus,
January 24 - March 6, 1989
Marilynn E. Bell, Lecturer in Rhetoric and English Composition, leave without salary, January 1 - April
30, 1989
Sister Mary T. Fisher, Lecturer in Rhetoric and Composition, extended sick leave, December 1, 1988 -
Aoril 30, 1989
John F. Riordan Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, and Professor of Computer and Information
Science, bivision of Interdisciplinary Studies, without tenure, extended sick leave, January 22, 1989
CANCELLATIONS OF PREVIOUSLY REPORTED ADMINISTRATIVELY
APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Colee ofEn ineerin
Robert D. Hanson, Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1989
College Literature. Science, and the Arts
T. Michael Sanders, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective December 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistrv
Charles B. Cartwright, Assistant Dean and Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, January 31, 1989
College of Engineering
Terry E. Brockett, Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, without tenure
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts
Paul A. Berry, Assistant Professor of History of Art
Deming B. Brown, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure
Laurent Clozel, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Medical School
Dennis R. Anderson, Lecturer in Ophthalmology
Svend 0. Freytag, Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry
Barry Gross Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Richard D. tichwa, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Jerry L. Hudson, Assistant Professor of Pathology, January 4, 1989
Margaret J. Hunter, Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure
Robert D. Johnson, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, June 30, 1988
School of Natural Resources
William J. Johnson, Professor of Landscape Architecture, with tenure
UM-Dearbom School of Education
Donald A. Brown, Assistant Professor of Education


-170 -



February Meeting, 1989


Retirement Memoirs
The Regents voted unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
Robert D. Johnson, M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 1988.
A native of Kalamazoo, Dr. Johnson received his B.A. degree from Western
Michigan University in 1942. He then attended medical school at The University of
Michigan, receiving his M.D. degree in 1945. After his internship at the University of
Wisconsin, he returned to The University of Michigan to complete his residency in
internal medicine in 1952. He joined the Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism
as a junior clinical instructor in 1952, progressing to instructor in 1953, assistant
professor in 1957, associate professor in 1961, and professor of internal medicine in
1969. At about the same time, he took on concurrent faculty appointments at
Michigan State University and the Blodgett Memorial Medical Center in Grand
Rapids. He held these three key positions until his retirement in 1988.
Dr. Johnson's achievements over the years reflect his contributions to the study
of a variety of endocrinologic disorders and his expertise as a resourceful and
conscientious clinician. Many medical students at The University of Michigan have
benefited from his great skill in imparting the lessons he learned from his vast clinical
experiences. His wisdom and knowledge transcended the scientific world of medicine,
infusing compassion and an awareness of human values into medical education and
health care delivery at all levels.
Students in the University's Inteflex Program particularly benefited from Dr.
Johnson's professional achievements and personal outlook on life. From 1972 until
June of 1987, he provided unswerving leadership in the program's keystone course,
"Introduction to Patient Care." His many students will best remember him as a caring
physician educator who championed an appropriate balance between the impersonal
delivery of technological medicine and the compassionate understanding of patients
and their families.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Robert D. Johnson Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine.
Deming B. Brown, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, retired from
active faculty status on December 31, 1988, after a distinguished career as a teacher,
scholar, and administrator.
A native of the state of Washington, Professor Brown graduated from the
University of Washington in 1940 and received his M.A. degree in American literature
in 1942. Following service in the U.S. Army from 1943-45, he did graduate work in
Russian literature at Cornell and Columbia Universities, receiving the Certificate of
Columbia's Russian Institute in 1948 and his Ph.D. degree in 1951.
From 1948-57, Professor Brown taught at Northwestern University. In 1957, he
came to The University of Michigan as associate professor and chairman of the
Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures. He served as chairman until 1961,
and then as director of the Center for Russian and East European Studies from
1965-66 and 1978-80.
In the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor Brown has served
on numerous significant committees, including the college's executive committee from
1964-68 and 1983-86. He has also served on various university-wide committees,
including the senate advisory committee, and on numerous national professional
committees, such as the Joint Committee on Slavic Studies of ACLS/SSRC and the
American Association for Advancement of Slavic Studies.


-171 -



February Meeting, 1989


Professor Brown has taught a variety of undergraduate and graduate courses
and seminars on nineteenth and twentieth-century Russian literature. Students have
found his courses rigorous, edifying, and engaging, and informed by the best
humanistic values. Professor Brown has directed numerous dissertations; his students
now occupy positions in leading colleges and universities throughout the United
States. Internationally known as a foremost scholar of Russian and Soviet literatures,
Professor Brown has written over forty book reviews, thirty articles and two notable
books: Soviet Attitudes Toward American Writers (Princeton University Press, 1962) and
Soviet Russian Literature Since Stalin (Cambridge University Press, 1978). He
continues as an active scholar and is currently engaged in a book-length study of the
depiction of work in Soviet literature.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Deming B. Brown Professor Emeritus of Slavic Languages and Literatures.
William C. Godwin, D.D.S., Professor of Dentistry in the Department of
Prosthodontics, retired from active faculty status on January 31, 1989.
Dr. Godwin was awarded the purple heart, air medal, and silver star for his
service as an officer in the Air Force from 1943-47. He received his D.D.S. degree in
1951 and his M.S. degree in prosthodontics in 1954 from The University of Michigan
School of Dentistry. He joined the faculty of The University of Michigan as a climcal
instructor in the School of Dentistry in 1951; he was appointed assistant professor in
1955, associate professor in 1963, and professor in 1972. He maintained his private
practice until 1983.
Dr. Godwin's teaching has focused primarily on undergraduate prosthodontics
and on continuing education. His dedication and excellence as a preclinical and
clinical teacher led to his receiving the Paul Gibbons Award as outstanding teacher of
the year in 1976. Dr. Godwin has supervised the construction of mouthguards for the
University's football and hockey players, and has worked to encourage dentists
throughout the state to provide mouthguards for high school athletes. Beyond this, he
has been instrumental in the development of model programs to provide athletes with
custom filled mouthguards.
In his research, Dr. Godwin has worked to develop a mouthguard for protecting
the dentition of athletes in contact sports. He has authored numerous articles and has
participated in many symposia on intra oral protection and related subjects promoting
the prevention of oral facial injuries to athletes. He has served as vice president of the
Ann Arbor Hockey Association, president of the Ann Arbor Amateur Hockey League,
and dental consultant to the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics at The University
of Michigan. Dr. Godwin has also been a consulting editor for the Journal of the
American Dental Association and has served as chair of the Michigan State Dental
Association's committee on mouth protection. He was awarded the Governor's
Trophy in Health Sciences in 1962 and a Certificate of Merit from The University of
Michigan in 1982.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming William C. Godwin Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Memorials
Resent Baker moved that the Regents adopt the following statement
memorializing Regent Emeritus William Cudlip:
Regent Emeritus William Byrnes Cudlip died in his home in Harbor
Springs, Michigan on November 12, 1988 at the age of 84.


-172 -



February Meeting, 1989


Bill Cudlip was elected to the Board of Regents in 1963 and served as
Regent until 1972. An alumnus of the University of Michigan Law School class
of 1926, he was a partner in the Detroit law firm of Dickinson, Wright, McKean
and Cudlip from 1933 until his retirement in 1976. In his professional life, he
exercised leadership in the formulation of laws governing financial institutions
and small businesses, assisted in a compilation of Michigan statutes, and was
an influential delegate and committeeman of the 1962 Michigan Constitutional
Convention.
A loyal alumnus, Bill Cudlip was an avid University of Michigan football
fan and a member of the board of governors of the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies for 12 years. In 1973 he donated an electronic carillon to
the School of Music. During his tenure on the Board, his fellow Regents twice
cited him for service, for his fundraising efforts on behalf of the $55 Million
campaign in 1965 and for his survey underscoring the autonomous legal status
of the University, 'The University of Michigan: Its Legal Profile," published in
1969.
The Regents of the University of Michigan mourn the loss of this former
Regent and devoted friend of the University, and offer their sympathy to his wife,
Lynwood Bope Cudlip, and children. Perhaps the most fitting memorial is the
following citation made by his colleagues on the Board upon the completion of
his tenure in 1972:
His fellows on the Board are conscious of a special tenor of
earnestness and devotion that has characterized every aspect of his
service. They further deeply appreciate his unfailing personal courtesy
and geniality over the years. They tender now their abiding affection
and gratitude to this esteemed colleague, counselor, gentleman, and
friend.
Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously. On a
motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents also unanimously
adopted the following memorial:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
January 7, 1989 of Manfred Kochen, Professor of Information Science in the
Department of Psychiatry and Research Mathematician at the Mental Health
Research Institute.
Professor Kochen was an internationally recognized expert on information
systems and the author of over two hundred articles and eight books on that subject.
A holder of the Award of Merit of the American Society of Information Science, he
was a frequently invited speaker at meetings related to his work and was returning
from such a meeting in Kona, Hawaii, when he was suddenly stricken.
Professor Kochen was born in Vienna, Austria in 1928. He received his B.A.
degree from M.I.T. in 1950 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees in applied mathematics
from Columbia University in 1951 and 1955, respectively. He came to The University
of Michigan in 1965 after spending nine years as a staff scientist at IBM's Watson
Research Center in Yorktown Heights, New York.
At The University of Michigan, Professor Kochen's activities ranged across
many schools and departments. He taught courses in mathematics at the Residential
College, computers in medicine at the Medical School, and data base management in
the Business School. He was always open to collaboration with colleagues and
-173 -



February Meeting, 1989


students in every part of the campus. He supervised and chaired the dissertation
research of numerous doctoral students in such areas as industrial engineering,
statistics, psychology, sociology, and education. For five years, he was chairman of the
Sociotechnological Systems Area of the Urban, Technological, and Environmental
Planning Ph.D. Program at the University.
Fred's singular characteristics were his curiosity and his optimism. His curiosity
was not that marked by passive observation. Rather, his was a curiosity associated
with active participation, commitment, and involvement. His optimism embodied the
belief that reality has the power for essential good. He firmly believed that applied
mathematics was man's logic lever in prying solutions to important social problems.
To Fred, no problem was too big, no problem was too complex that it could not
benefit from a rigorous axiomatic treatment provided by mathematics.
He believed in the intellectual's dream that rationality and reason could
produce a better world society. Within his chosen tools, Fred actively pursued that
dream. He will be remembered by his many friends and colleagues for his infectious
enthusiasm, his facile mind, and his friendly manner. As we mourn the loss of this
great scholar and teacher, our condolences go to his wife Paula and his sons David and
Mark.
Degrees
The Regents approved the final degree lists for the December, 1988
commencement. At the recommendation of the proper officials in each case, they also
approved amendments to previously approved degree lists.
Appointment of Auditors for 1988-89
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Power, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Ernst & Whinney as auditors for 1988-89.
Semi-Annual Report of Designated, Auxiliary Activities, and Expendable Restricted
Funds
The Regents received schedules summarizing the activity in the Designated
Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund for the first six
months of the current fiscal year and the prior year.
Audit Report: Donor Pooled Fund for Year Ended December 31, 1988
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents voted
unanimously to accept the audit report for the Donor Pooled Fund prepared by
University auditors for the year ended December 31, 1988.
University Real Estate
Vice President Womack presented a policy proposal regarding the University's
policies and procedures for disposing of and administering real estate for the Regents'
consideration. The document also contained a list of all properties which have been
donated to the University and are currently owned by the Regents. He noted that the
policy provides that the purchase or sale of any properties located in Ann Arbor,
Dearborn, or Flint would require Regental authorization. Sales of donated out-state
properties which exceed $30,000 would also be submitted to the Regents for approval
and authorization. Sale of donated out-state properties with a sales price of less than


-174 -



February Meeting, 1989


$30,000 could be approved and authorized by the Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer, provided that certain specified conditions are met.
He noted that the University is very careful about accepting property that might
have been a landfill at one time, due to the growing concern about hazardous waste.
He also noted that it is undesirable to accept property that would require expenditures
of donated funds to maintain.
Regent Roach said that he believed the concept of a 1% earnest money deposit
for transactions which exceed $100,000 is low; several suggestions for specific
percentages were made; it was suggested that there be a goal of 5%, but that Vice
President Womack could use that goal as a negotiating tool. The issue of time limits
was also discussed, and Vice President Womack noted that he was aware of the
Regents' concerns in that area, but that it hadn't been specifically addressed in the
policy statement.
There was considerable discussion about the requirements the University places
on potential donors of land, particularly one that requires that the University be held
harmless for expenses and liabilities incurred in connection with the removal and/or
clean up of toxic and/or hazardous substances on the property. Several Regents
observed that such requirements may deter people from donating property to the
University, but it was also pointed out that this is a necessary precaution. Regent
Varner suggested that rather than requiring submission of a title commitment, the
University could require a title search, which would be a less expensive proposition on
the part of donors.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, as to why the University uses the
assessed value, rather than the appraised value of property, it was pointed out that
properties donated as gifts often have liberal appraised values. Vice President
Womack said that the University has an obligation to present the value fairly;
therefore property is listed according to assessed value until it is sold, at which time it
is appraised.
Vice President Womack suggested that he redraft the section of the policy
having to do with review for gift purposes, incorporating the Regents comments and
concerns. Regent Nielsen requested a legal opinion on the propriety of the
University's accepting property conditionally, so that if an environmental hazard were
found it would revert back to the owner. It was decided to table action on the
University real estate policy until the next meeting.
Autonomy of the Registered Nurse Bachelor of Science in Nursing (RN/BSN) Degree
Program at the University of Michigan-Flint
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Power seconded, that the Regents a)
dissolve the present administrative structure for the RN/BSN degree program at the
University of Michigan-Flint, in which the Flint campus financed the program and the
School of Nursing at the Ann Arbor campus controlled the curriculum and the degree;
and b) grant UM-Flint full program and degree responsibility for the RN/BSN degree
program at Flint, as suggested in a Regents action approved in 1974.
Following some discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was unanimously
approved.


-175 -



February Meeting, 1989


The Registered Nurse Bachelor of Science in Nursing (RN/BSN) Degree Program
and the School of Health Professions and Studies at the University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved uniting the two faculties of the Nursing Program and of the
School of Health Sciences into one school at the UM-Flint, and naming it the School
of Health Professions and Studies.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session after Public Comments on February 16, 1989, in the Regents' Room,
Fleming Administration Building, for the purpose of considering material
exempt from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's
legal counsel.
Regent Smith seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
The meeting was recessed at 3:30 P.M.; it reconvened at 4:00 P.M. in the
Anderson Room of the Michigan Union for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Paul Thompson and Will Curl, students, about the Michigan Collegiate
Coalition; and Zachary Kittrie, student, about tuition and financial aid.
The meeting then reconvened in the Regents' Room for the executive session.
Friday, February 17, 1989
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, and Varner. Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, Provost Vest, and
Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regent Waters was absent.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and turned to the first item of
business.
4005 West Jefferson
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
authorized the University's participation in the sale of property located at 4005 W.
Jefferson, Ecorse, Michigan. The motion carried unanimously.


-176 -



February Meeting, 1989


Alteration of University of Michigan Retirement Program
Vice President Womack said that in order to be in compliance with new rules
promulgated as a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, as amended by the Technical
and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988, the University needs to make certain
technical changes to its retirement program so as not to favor highly-compensated
employees. University officials have determined that by modifying the retirement
program in such a way that it will remain in part a Section 403(b) plan and become in
part a Section 401(a) Internal Revenue Code plan, the retirement program will be in
compliance with the new rules. The only effect this will have on participants in the
program is that compulsory participants in the program may no longer make after-tax
contributions to it; all contributions will now be made on a pre-tax basis. This change
affects approximately 800 people.
Regent Brown moved that the University be authorized to alter its current
Section 403(b) retirement program effective July 1, 1989 by establishing a Section
401(a) qualified retirement plan to accept University contributions and compulsory
participant contributions on earnings above the Social Security Wage Base and
retaining its Section 403(b) plan for other employee contributions. In response to a
question from Regent Roach, Vice President Womack said that administrative costs
associated with this modification will amount to approximately $40,000. Following
further discussion, the vote was taken, and it carried unanimously.
Elimination of Tax Benefits for Highly Compensated Employees Concerning Premium
Conversion Plan and Medical Expense Reimbursement Plan
Vice President Womack informed the Regents that Section 89 of the Internal
Revenue Code, created by the 1986 Tax Reform Act, as amended by the Technical
and Miscellaneous Revenue Act of 1988 limits the extent to which benefit plans may
favor highly compensated employees over non-highly-compensated employees.
Because the University has determined that the non-discrimination rules of Section 89
cannot be passed by all of its employee welfare plans without eliminating the premium
conversion and medical expense reimbursement plan for highly compensated
employees, the University has now eliminated this benefit for its highly-compensated
employees.
School of Social Work Building
Regent Baker moved, and Regent Varner seconded, appointment of the firm of
Sims-Varner and Associates as architect for the School of Social Work Building.
Regent Smith noted that the University is currently engaged in litigation against
Sims-Varner regarding the Herbert Dow Chemical Engineering Building, and for that
reason, she could not support the motion. Vice President Womack explained that the
litigation involves determining liability for an accident that occurred during
construction of the building. Sims-Varner had hired a structural engineer as
subcontractor to design the roof, which collapsed during construction; litigation is in
process to determine who is at fault. The overall responsibility for the whole project,
however, rests with Sims-Varner.
Regent Nielsen said that he would not support the motion unless Sims-Varner
agreed to hold the University harmless for all damages. Following further discussion,
Regent Smith moved to table the motion until March so that an opinion could be
obtained on the litigation matter. Regent Roach seconded the motion. There was


-177 -



February Meeting, 1989


then extensive additional discussion about the general issue of whether contracts
should be awarded to firms currently involved in litigation against the University, and
of some of the details of this particular case. Regent Roach suggested that any further
discussion of current litigation should be undertaken in closed session.
The vote was called on Regent Smith's motion to table the request until the next
meeting, and it passed unanimously.
Tunnel Repair
The Regents unanimously approved proceeding with both Phase I and Phase II
of a tunnel repair project.
West Engineering Renovations for Physics Department
The Regents unanimously approved the award of contracts for this project to
the low bidders, J. C. Beal Construction, Inc., Boone & Darr, Inc., and Triangle
Electric Company.
Medical Center #9 Steam Line Replacement, Mosher-Jordan Freight Elevator
Rehabilitation and Dock Expansion, Old Chemistry Building Transformer
Replacement, UM Hospitals Building Management System
The Regents unanimously approved proceeding with the above-named projects.
1989-90 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Varner seconded, approval of a rate increase
of 6.3 percent for residence halls and 5.9 percent for family housing apartments for the
1989-90 academic year. Regent Baker said that he would abstain from voting because
of the $24.00 per year included in the increase for the purpose of instituting a Housing
Division recycling program. He requested an economic analysis on the cost of this
project.
Regents Roach noted that there appears to be broad-based student support for
the rate increase and the recycling program, which he considers to be worthwhile from
both social and educational standpoints. Regent Power observed that the student
involvement in the rate-setting process is an ideal example of how the University
should go about making choices that affect students.
There was further discussion about current problems with solid waste disposal in
Ann Arbor, and about the makeup of the University's Waste Management Task Force.
Regent Baker reiterated his belief that there should be an economic justification for
increasing fees to support a project of this type. Regent Varner said that she
supported the proposal, because students fully participated in its development and in
the establishment of the proposed fees. Regent Brown suggested that the Regents
support the motion, and that if the information requested by Regent Baker leads the
Regents to reconsider, appropriate adjustments can then be made to the fee schedules.
The vote was then taken, and it carried, with Regent Baker opposed, and the rest of
the Regents in support.


-178 -



February Meeting, 1989


Change in Graduate Degree Names in Department of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and
Space Sciences
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Roach, the Regents
unanimously approved the following changes in degree names in the Department of
Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences:
From: Master of Science in Oceanic Science
To:    Master of Science in Oceanography: Physical Science
From: Ph.D. in Oceanic Science
To:    Ph.D. in Oceanography: Physical Science
From: Master of Science in Atmospheric Science
To:    Master of Science in Atmospheric and Space Sciences
From: Ph.D. in Atmospheric Science
To:    Ph.D. in Atmospheric and Space Sciences
Peer Comparisons in Terms of Research Volume for FY 1987
Vice President Wilson submitted information to the Regents illustrating the
University of Michigan's ranking in various categories of research and development
expenditures compared with other universities in the United States. She noted that
the University of Michigan continues to rank very high in all categories.
1989-90 Residence Hall and Family Housing Rates
Regent Baker said that he had misunderstood Regent Brown's motion regarding
the 1989-90 residence hall and family housing rates, and now wished to change his vote
to reflect his support of it. Regent Brown restated his motion: that the Regents
approve the residence hall and family housing rate increase. After they receive the
financial information requested by Regent Baker, they may reconsider their support of
the portion of the fee increase dedicated to the recycling project, and vote on a
separate motion to rescind that portion of the fee increase. The motion to approve
the recommended residence hall and family housing rate increase was thus approved
unanimously.
AIDS Research Safety Concerns
Regent Baker noted that the University had received a $750,000 grant to
conduct research on AIDS, and asked Vice President Wilson for assurance that
adequate precautions are in place to insure the safety of the researchers. Vice
President Wilson said that the purpose of the grant referred to by Regent Baker is to
fund renovations to laboratory facilities so that they will be safe for research in this
field. The grant from NIH stipulates certain requirements about the type of
containment that is necessary; NIH must approve the architectural design for the
laboratories before it will release any funds. University officials are consulting with
experts from the Centers for Disease Control on the design of the laboratories.
Researchers will be operating under NIH requirements in conducting research, and
will also receive appropriate training.


-179 -



February Meeting, 1989


Peer Comparisons in Terms of Research Volume for FY 1987
Further discussion ensued about the University's position relative to its peers in
terms of research volume. Regent Brown extended his compliments to Vice President
Wilson, the University administration, researchers, and staff for doing a good job in
keeping the University of Michigan in the forefront in research volume.
Academic Calendars
Regent Power moved that the University approve the 1989-90 academic
calendars for the Ann Arbor and Dearborn campuses, and the 1990-91 and 1991-92
calendars for the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint campuses. Regent Roach seconded
the motion. Regents Roach and Power expressed their concern that there not be any
major discrepancies in the calendars for all three campuses.
Regent Smith asked why Martin Luther King, Jr. Day is no longer being called
"Diversity Day", the name designated by the Regents for that day in May, 1988.
Provost Vest said that the official designation of that day is consistent with that of the
federal holiday. President Duderstadt noted that each year there will be a specific
theme emphasized on that day and that the name of the day would incorporate that
theme.
The vote was then taken, and the motion passed, with Regent Smith abstaining
and the remaining Regents in favor. Regent Baker was not in the room when the vote
was taken.
Membership in the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
Founders Club
The Regents unanimously approved membership for Dr. Charles Krause in the
Founders Club of the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery
(AAFPRS).
School of Social Work Building
Regent Roach noted that counsel was available to discuss the litigation issue
related to the approval of the architect for the School of Social Work Building.
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Regent Roach made the following motion:
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session after Public Comments on February 17, 1989 at 10:45 A.M. in the
Regents' Room, Fleming Administration Building, for the purpose of
consulting with the Board's attorney in connection with specific pending
litigation.
Regent Brown seconded the motion, and it was adopted unanimously.
The meeting was then recessed.


-180 -



February Meeting, 1989


The meeting reconvened in open session at 11:45 AM. in the Regents' Room.
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Varner seconded, that the motion to appoint
Sims-Varner and Associates as architect for the School of Social Work Building be
removed from the table. The motion carried, with Regent Smith voting no.
Regent Brown moved that Sims-Varner and Associates be appointed architect
for the School of Social Work Building, provided that the Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer can negotiate a satisfactory position before the contract is awarded
with respect to the settlement of the University's pending litigation against
Sims-Varner.
Regent Roach moved to amend the motion to appoint Sims-Varner without any
condition concerning the pending litigation. Regent Power seconded that motion.
Following some discussion, the vote was taken and it failed, with Regents Varner and
Roach in favor, and the remaining Regents opposed.
Vice President Womack stated his understanding of the original motion to be
that if he was unable to negotiate a satisfactory resolution of the pending litigation
issue, the item would be returned to the Board before any action was taken.
Regent Brown called the question on the original motion, and it carried, with
Regent Smith abstaining, and the rest of the Regents in favor.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place March 23 and 24, 1989. Transportation, accommodation, and other
miscellaneous expenses for the month of January, 1989 totalled $864.08.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretsy


-181 -



MARCH MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, March 23, 1989
The Regents met at 10:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Nielsen, Power, Roach, and
Smith. Provost Vest and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, and Womack
were also present, as was Chancellor Wilson. Regents Baker and Brown and
Chancellor Jones arrived shortly after the start of the meeting. Regent Waters,
Regent Varner, and Vice President Kennedy were absent.
Intellectual Directions
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order, and said that Provost Vest
would introduce the participants in the discussion on "Intellectual Directions". Provost
Vest introduced John D'Arms, Dean of the Rackham School of Graduate Studies.
Dean D'Arms called to the table Professors Jack Meiland and Robert Weisbuch.
Collegiate Fellows Program. Professors Meiland and Weisbuch described the
Collegiate Fellows Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. This
program is designed to engage distinguished senior research faculty in teaching
undergraduate students. It is funded by the Presidential Initiatives Fund. Professor
Meiland explained that the program emphasizes research skills and encourages
students to be active, not passive, learners. The courses in this program are
considered to be more demanding than others; this fact discourages some students
from participating in the program for fear that they might receive lower grades, which
would jeopardize their chances of getting into competitive professional schools.
Professor Weisbuch noted that another aspect of the type of class in this
program is the fact that these classes do not provide concrete answers to questions;
rather, they operate on the theory of learning in which the answer to one question is
another question. This type of teaching makes some students uncomfortable.
The Regents raised a number of issues related to the undergraduate experience
at the University. One of these had to do with how the University can encourage
researchers to increase their interest in teaching. Professor Meiland said that this
issue is of great concern to faculty as well; faculty point out that the reward system has
not valued teaching in the past. However, the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts has rewritten its performance guidelines to emphasize teaching. He noted that in
the past few years several people have been denied promotion on grounds of
insufficient teaching. He cautioned, however, that the balance between research and
teaching must be maintained.
Professor Weisbuch noted that the University of Michigan is known nationally
as the research university that places great emphasis on teaching. Regent Power
suggested that the University should define descriptors that characterize the
educational experience obtainable here.


-183 -



March Meeting, 1989


In response to a question from Regent Baker about complaints from
undergraduates that too many of their classes are taught by teaching assistants, Dean
D'Arms said that increasing numbers of undergraduate courses in the College of
LS&A are being taught by professors. He also noted that another aspect of the
Collegiate Fellows Program is that it works to strengthen the teaching skills of
teaching assistants. Professor Meiland described a new, centrally-administered
training program in the College of LS&A. This was developed to replace
departmental training programs that had been found to be inconsistent.
Regent Brown raised the possibility of instituting a thesis requirement for all
undergraduates. The Regents and professors discussed the pros and cons of such a
requirement. President Duderstadt mentioned that an alternative approach being
considered is to offer a group experience whereby students would work together to
explore a field. It was noted that this is the type of situation students are likely to
encounter in their work lives.
Biotechnology. Vice President Wilson introduced Oveta Fuller, Assistant
Professor of Microbiology and Immunology; Mark Meyerhoff, Associate Professor of
Chemistry; and Michael Savageau, Professor of Microbiology and Immunology and
Professor and Director of the Cellular Biotechnology Laboratory in Chemical
Engineering. These professors gave a slide presentation that explained the techniques
and the interdisciplinary activities that come together in biotechnology to develop
useful applications in such areas as diagnostics, therapeutics, biosensing, and
bioengineering.
They explained that progress in biotechnology has accelerated since the
development of recombinant DNA technologies in 1973. Examples of substances that
have been developed through application of biotechnologic techniques include human
insulin, used in treating diabetes, and TPA, used in treating heart attacks. Each
professor described how his or her area of expertise contributes to biotechnology, and
how the interdisciplinary approach is critical to the development of this area of
investigation.
Following the slide presentation, the Regents discussed the nature of
interdisciplinary research in various areas throughout the University, and how it can
be enhanced and encouraged. Regent Roach pointed out that the University has
traditionally formed centers as a means for carrying out interdisciplinary approaches
to research. President Duderstadt commented that a characteristic of centers is that
some will evolve eventually into new permanent structures; others will expire after
having served their purpose and will be replaced as new ventures come along.
Provost Vest concluded the discussion about intellectual directions by describing
all of the ways in which intellectual directions are developed and nurtured. The
Regents then recessed for lunch.
The meeting reconvened in the Regents' Room at 1:00 P.M. Present were the
President and Regents Baker, Nielsen, Roach, Smith, and Varner. Vice President and
Secretary Kennedy, Provost Vest, and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, and
Womack were also present, as were Chancellors Jones and Wilson. Regents Brown
and Power arrived shortly after the start of the meeting; Regent Waters was absent.


-184 -



March Meeting, 1989


Michigan Student Assembly
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and announced that the first
order of business would be the Michigan Student Assembly fiscal report. Vice
President Johnson introduced MSA President Mike Phillips, who presented the MSA
financial statements for the year ended August 31, 1988.
Mr. Phillips said that total revenues for the year ended August 31, 1988 were
$730,725, compared to $612,530 for the previous year. He explained that MSA has
tried to eliminate its current fund balance by funding a number of groups that
wouldn't ordinarily approach MSA for funding, including the Students of Color
Conference. He explained the three procedures by which student organizations apply
for funds: they can go to the Budget Priorities Committee, directly to a particular
committee or commission and apply for funds from that budget, or they can request
funding from the general assembly of MSA.
Following his presentation, Mr. Phillips responded to questions about MSA.
President Duderstadt concluded the discussion by thanking Mr. Phillips for his work
on behalf of MSA during the past year.
Annual Report on Investments
In introducing the Report on Investments for the calendar year ended
December 31, 1988, Vice President Womack noted that the total return on the
endowment fund was 17.9%, which is significantly above the performance benchmark
of a 70/30 mix on the endowment. The report also contains information about the
Donor Pooled Income Fund and the University Investment Pool.
University investment officer Norman Herbert gave a slide presentation which
indicated that the University Investment Pool had a yield (on book value) of 8.4%,
compared to the average money market fund of 7.1%. For the past three-year and
five-year periods, the University Investment Pool has exceeded both the average
money market funds and the Common Fund. In response to a question from Regent
Baker, Mr. Herbert said that there has been no change in the way this pool has been
managed in the past five years, other than the length of maturity, which is adjusted
based on both cash flow requirements and the opportunity to take advantage of
interest rate shifts.
The Donor Pooled Income Fund, which contains $1.6 million, provides benefits
for 62 beneficiaries. The performance of 10.4% for the past year is disappointing;
investment in the Standard & Poors 500 and the Shearson Lehman at a mix of
40%/60% would have yielded a return of 11.3% for the same period. Mr. Herbert
explained that the disappointing performance of the Donor Pooled Income Fund is
largely the result of an overemphasis on income. Its objective is a 6% yield, and over
the past ten years it has provided a distribution of 7.8%. This level of distribution to
the beneficiaries has resulted in a 2% loss in value for this fund.
Regent Smith asked whether the fund's managers are aware of the University's
dissatisfaction with the fund's performance, and whether they have been responsive to
the University's recommendations. Mr. Herbert indicated that he and his staff have
had discussions with the managers, and the managers are beginning to make
adjustments in their allocations. But the University continues to be concerned with


-185 -



March Meeting, 1989


the fact that in the past year the fund has lost slightly over 1% in value, during a time
of good performance in stocks and bonds, where value could have been added.
It was noted that one reason for the underperformance of this fund, compared
with the endowment fund, is that its objective is to provide income to the investors.
The objective of the endowment fund, on the other hand, is to maintain the real value
of the principal over time.
Mr. Herbert elaborated on Vice President Womack's introductory comments
about the endowment fund, noting that its return of 17.9% greatly outperformed the
14% return of a 70/30 weighting of the S&P and the Shearson Lehman, and exceeded
the University's objectives. The goal for the total return on the endowment fund was
9.8% (determined by adding the inflation rate of 4.4% and the distribution level of
5.4%). The actual return was 17.9% for the 1988 calendar year; thus the real value
added amounted to 8.1%. Mr. Herbert noted that one of the reasons for this
performance was strict adherence to the asset allocation guidelines of 70%/30%
equity/fixed income investments.
Mr. Ned Joachimi of the Wellesley Group, the University's investment
management consultant, then gave a presentation describing the performance of the
University's equity managers as it relates to their management styles. He noted that
the Investment Officer is closely monitoring the performance of the Boston Company,
which follows a growth and income management style, because their performance on
the University'is account continues to lag the performance guideline. However, the
Boston Company has remained consistent in its approach and has performed well in
comparison to its peer group. Mr. Herbert said that if the Boston Company meets its
own goal of outperforming the S&P by 2-3 percentage points, it will meet the
University's guideline of 1 1/2 percentage points above the S&P, net of fees.
In response to a question from Regent Nielsen, Mr. Herbert commented that in
the next year, the Investment OFfice will prepare a recommendation to invest in
international equities. Mr. Joachimi noted that they will also be weighing the question
of whether the University needs managers in the growth and income style, or whether
adequate diversification can be achieved without that style.
Minutes
The Regents unanimously approved the Minutes of the February, 1989 Regents'
Meeting, noting one minor correction.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted monthly reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. Vice President Wilson
filed reports on Projects Established, Research and Other Academic Activities for the
month of February, 1989 and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research and
Sponsored Projects. The Regents voted unanimously to receive the Reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Summary Report of Gifts Received, the
Detail Report of Gifts Received, and the Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and above for the
month of February, 1989. He noted that although the dollar-amount of gifts received


-186 -



March Meeting, 1989


for the first eight months of the fiscal year is down 4.9% from the same period the
previous year, the number of donors has increased by 15.5% for this period.
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents voted
unanimously to receive the following gifts:
American Cancer Society, Inc.% Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy            86,869
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                     30,250
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            11,833
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education, North Plainfield, New Jersey
for fellowships in the College of Pharmacy                                     7,875
American Heart Association, Inc. Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                            83,473
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Division of
Physical Education                                                           110,868
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            13,750
Ameritech Publishing, Inc. Troy
for the Center for Fitness and Sports Research in the Division of Physical Education  5,000
Amoco Oil Company, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering                                    10,000
Arthur Andersen & Company, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             150,000
Anonymous Donor
ledge payment for the Dean William Haber Scholarship in the College of Literature,
cience, and the Arts                                                         10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                            22,667
Robert Arthur Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        19,391
Atlas Tool, Inc., Roseville
for support of the University of Michigan Hospitals                            5,000
William E. Bandemer Estate
for the William E. Bandemer Endowed Scholarship in the College of Engineering  39,110
Barton-Malow Company Foundation, Detroit
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                     6,000
Bergstrom Foundation Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for support of the Law School                                                 25,000
Betz Foundry, Inc., Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics      10,000
Stephen J. Bloom Charitable Trust Clarendon Hills, Illinois
pledge payment for the Stephen J. Bloom Library Acquisition Fund in the School of
Business Administration                                                        5,000
BNR, Inc., Research Triangle Park North Carolina
for support of the College o? Engineering                                     20,900
Bonisteel Foundation, East Grand Rapids
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan         10,000
BP America, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                                21,710
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration           5,000
Florence G. Brams, Holland
for the Stewart L. and Florence G. Brams Scholarship in the School of Music   10,000
Ben Paul Brasley Foundation, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
for support of the Residential Colfege, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Robert P. Briggs, Elk Rapids
250 shares of Trustcorp, Inc., common stock; for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship
in the School of Business Administration, and for the Clements Library and the
President's Fund                                                               6,125
Peter P. and Beatrice T. Britton, South Hamilton, Massachusetts
for research in the Center for Human Growth and Development                   11,000


-187 -



March Meeting, 1989


Chicago Community Trust, Chicago, Illinois
for chemistry research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts    30,000
Children's Cancer Research Fund, Midland
for research in the University of Michigan Hospital                            7,300
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                            10,875
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                                10,534
Ralph F. Colton, Chicago, Illinois
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts     10,000
Mrs. Willard M. Cornelius, Jr., Harbor Springs
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics      10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                            43,770
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            71,618
Deloitte, Haskins and Sells Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                    8,432
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            16,250
Domino's Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payments for the Thomas S. Monaghan Funds in the College of Architecture
and Urban Planning                                                            30,000
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
for student aid in the School of Business Administration and the College of
Engineering, and pledge payment for the chemical sciences facilities in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                 104,000
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for program support in the College of Engineering and the School of Public Health,
and for Employee Matching Gifts                                               47,141
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for research in the College of Engineering                                     8,000
Elkes Foundation, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                     5,000
Mrs. Theodore H. Erck, Greensboro, North Carolina
for the Myrtle Soles Erck Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  6,000
Eveready Battery Company, Inc. St. Louis, Missouri
for support of the Medical School                                              5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   13,684
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
pledge payment and other support for the School of Business Administration, and
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                   207,500
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Umniversity of Michigan Ford/EEOC Endowed Scholarship Program, and for
the College of Engineering                                                   239,000
Foundation For Chiropractic Education and Research, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering                                     6,833
Free Press Charities Inc., Detroit
for support o? the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts                5,000
Furth Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Roy F. Proffitt Loan Fund in the Law School                           25,000
Peter S. Fuss, Glen Ellyn, Illinois
400 shares of Tellabs, Inc., common stock; for support of the College of Engineering  5,000
General Motors Foundation, Inc. Detroit
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                    20,000
Paul Goebel Group, Grand Rapids
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                      5,000
Grumman Aircraft Systems, Bethpage New York
for the Robotics Industrial Affilates Program in the College of Engineering   15,000
Guardian Industries Corporation, Northville
pledge payment for the William Davidson Visiting Professorship in the School of
Business Administration                                                      100,000
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School                                            15,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the School of Natural Resources                              100,000
James W. Hyde, Paris Kentucky
for the Class of' 1904 Scholarship in the Law School                           5,000
-188 -



March Meeting, 1989


Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Dentistry, Medicine and Public Health, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                      86,557
Donald L. Katz Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Donald L. Katz Lectureship in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering  20,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation Battle Creek
pledge payment and other support for the College of Architecture and Urban
lanning, and the University of Michigan Library                             261,775
Leukemia Society of America, Inc. Nor, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           31,373
Libralter Plastics, Inc., Walled Lake
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics     20,000
Nancy Newton Loeb Trust
for the Nancy Newton Loeb Funds in the Medical School                        35,151
Walter Lorenz Surgical Instruments, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida
pledge payment for the Chalmers J. Lyons Endowed Chair in the School of Dentistry  5,000
Lurie Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard Zell/Leonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the School of
Business Administration                                                      40,918
Richard H. May, Bloomfield Hills
for support of the Law School                                                 5,000
John A. McDonald, Chicago Illinois
pledge payments for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt Research Professorship
in the Law School, and for unrestricted support of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts                                                         5,500
Thomas B. McDonald, Skaneateles, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School            60,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                    28,383
Frank D. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                     5,412
James Owens McNamee, Elkhart, Indiana
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics      5,000
Ellis B. Merry Estate
for support of the Law School                                                 6,000
Mid-America Institute for Public Policy Research, Chicago, Illinois
for gifts pending designation in the School of Business Administration       12,500
Miles, Inc., Pharmaceutical Division West Haven, Connecticut
for support of the Medical School                                             5,000
Jennifer Mills Trust Flint
for the Jennifer Mills Research Fund in the Medical School                   50,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for fellowships and scholarships in the School of Business Administration, and in the
College of Engineering                                                       22,500
John E. Missimore Estate
for the Norma and John Missimore Endowed Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy  219,437
Mobil Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Porus Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  5,000
National Dairy Promotion and Research Board, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the Medical School                                           19,796
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           13,500
Needmor Fund, Boulder, Colorado
pledge payment for the Professor L. Hart Wright Memorial Fund in the Law School  25,000
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  10,370
Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association Foundation, Inc., Washington D.C.
for the PMA Foundation Predoctoral Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy      8,776
Alfons Podlack Estate
for surgery burn research in the Medical School                              62,219
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
pledge payment for the Sadye Harwick Power Fund, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                 25,000
Meta E. Reynolds Estate
for alumnae scholarships in the Alumni Association                           13,870
Frank E. Robbins Memorial
for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial Fund in the Medical School                 11,794
Sandoz Research Institute, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           20,000
-189 -



March Meeting, 1989


Charles H. Sawyer, Ann Arbor
500 shares of Bank of New Hampshire Corporation common stock and cash gift of
$3,000; for the Charles H. and K7atherine C. Sawyer Fellowship in the Museum
of Art                                                                      13,500
Schering-Plough Foundation, Inc., Madison, New Jersey
for the Robert P. Luciano Fund in the Law School                            10,000
Elmer E. Shafer Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                     100,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B.: and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  6,211
Smith-Welsh Foundation, Rolling Hills Estates, California
for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics          5,000
Smithkline Beckman Corporation,Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                     17,000
Richard K. Snyder, New Haven, Connecticut
125 shares of Gulf & Western, Inc., common stock; for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey
Proffitt Research Professorship in the Law School                            5,109
Aaron M. Strefling, Palo Alto, California
pledge payment for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Tanabe Seiyaku Company Osaka, Japan
for research in the Medical School                                           7,000
Joel D. Tauber Support Foundation Detroit
for support of the Schools of Business Administration and Law, and the Department
of Athletics                                                                 9,000
Touche Ross & Company, Detroit
for accounting faculty support in the School of Business Administration      8,000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for support of the Michigan League                                          10,000
Constantine A. Tsangadas Estate
for support ofthe Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies              18,436
Union Pacific Corporation Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  6,500
Union Pump Company, Battle Creek
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration         5,000
United Nations Fund for Population Activities, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health                                 14,247
University of Michigan Alumnae Club of Ann Arbor, Margaret Waterman Group, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Alumni Association                                   5,500
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for support of the Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                     10,628
Richard S.Warner Estate
for the Richard S. Warner Research Fund in the Medical School               10,000
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 14,944
Warner-Lambert Foundation Morris Plains, New Jersey
for support of the Medical School, and the College of Pharmacy               6,000
Whitaker Foundation, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                     53,059
Whitman Corporation Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Doris B. and Frank O. Westover Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                              10,000
Xerox Foundation, Stamford, Connecticut
for macromolecular research in the Institute of Science and Technology, and for
Employee Matching Gifts                                                     10,250
Yamanouclhi Pharmaceutical Company, Limited, Toyko, Japan
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      5,000
Arthur Young Foundation New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  5,585
Samuel Zell Foundation Chicago, Illinois
for the Bernard Zell/Leonard W. Lurie Entrepreneur Competition in the School of
Business Administration                                                     40,918
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale California
microchips; for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science


-190 -



March Meeting, 1989


C. J. Aikmon, Grand Blanc
clothing items; for the University of Michigan-Flint, Theatre Department
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
electronic research equipment; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Holtzman & Silverman Construction Company, Farmington Hills
24,336 cubic yards of topsoil; for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens, and the Radrick Farms Golf
Course
Gordon and Elizabeth Orear, Troy
a John Foster stoneware bowl (1953); for the Museum of Art
Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor
eleven small baskets from Africa and the American Southwest; for the Museum of Anthropology
Peter D. Ward, Ann Arbor
a year of National Legal Bibliogaphy Parts I and II, and related publications; for the Law School
Library
Personnel Actions
General Counsel. On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Brown,
the Regents unanimously approved the appointment of Elsa Kircher Cole as general
counsel, effective July 24, 1989.
Director of Affirmative Action and Special Advisor to the Presideito On a
motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents unanimously
approved the appointment of Zaida I. Giraldo as Director of Affirmative Action and
Special Advisor to the President, effective May 15, 1989.
Emil Lorch Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning. The Regents
unanimously approved the appointment of Robert Co Metcalf as the Emil Lorch
Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, effective September 1, 1989.
Dow Corning Assistant Professorship in Chemical Engineering. The Reents
approved a change in the name of the Dow Corning Assistant Professorship in
Chemical Engineering to the Dow Corning Assistant Professorship.
Leave of Absence. The Regents approved a leave of absence for Ruth M.
Barnard, Associate Professor of Nursing, for the period of September 1, 1989 through
December 31, 1990.
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Brown, the Regents also
approved the following personnel actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1989
Fritz A. Kaenzig, M. Mus., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure
Matthew D. Shapiro, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Robert L. Bree, M.D. Associate Professor of Radiology, March 1, 1989
Samuel B. Mukasa, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, September 1, 1989
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Robert C Hendrix, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, reappointed to active status, April 1, 1989
-191 -



March Meeting, 1989


Darvan A. Moosman, Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, reappointed to active status,
March 3, 1989
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Nancy E. Cantor, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and          Research Center for
Group Dynamics, Institute for Social Research, appointed Associate Dean for Faculty Programs,
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, June 11989
Herbert J. Eagle, from Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, Associate
Professor in the Residential College without tenure, and Interim Director of the Residential
College, to Associate Professor ofSlavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure Associate
Professor in the Residential College, without tenure, and Director of the Residential College, for a
three-year term
Philip D. Gingerich Professor of Geological Sciences with tenure, Professor of Anthropology without
tenure, and Professor of Biological Sciences, without tenure, appointed Director of the Museum of
Paleontology, for a three-year term
Jed J. Jacobson, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, appointed Assistant Dean for Admissions, School of
Dentistry, for a two-year appointment, April, 1989
Victor B. Lieberman, Associate Professor of Southeast Asian History, with tenure, appointed Director of
the Center for South and Southeast Asian Studies, for a three-year term
Robb J. Muirhead, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, appointed Chair of the Department of Statistics,
for a three-year term
Friedrich K. Port, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, appointed Professor of Epidemiology,
without tenure, School of Public Health, for a three-year term, April 1, 1989
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Carolyn Phinney, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology, September 1, 1988
Medical School
Rebecca J. Duke, M.D  Lecturer in Internal Medicine, January 16, 1989
Ronald F. Maio, D.O., instructor in Surgery, March 1, 1989
School of Public Health
Julia E. Richards, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, January 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1989
Medical School
James A. Brunberg, from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Assistant Professor of Radiology and
Neurology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Engineering
David K. Felbeck, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May
31, 1989
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Martha B. Aliaga, Lecturer in Mathematics leave without salary, November 15, 1988 - May 31, 1989
Roger F. Hackett, Professor of History, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 1 - May 31, 1989
Shaw Livermore, Jr., Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
Rhoads Murphey, Professor of History, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990


-192 -



March Meeting, 1989


Medical School
George R. DeMuth, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, retirement
furlough, April 1 - May 31, 1989
Luretta S. Deschner, Instructor in Anesthesiology, leave without salary, February 1 - February 28, 1989
Timothy J. Watkins, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, leave without salary, December
14, 1988 - January 8, 1989
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
John N. Kotre, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, March 1 - June 30, 1989
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Margaret F. Kahn, Assistant Professor of Politcal Science, extended sick leave, January 22 - May 31, 1989
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1989,19  unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Martin R. Warshaw, Professor of Marketing, with tenure
School of Dentistry
J. Russell Anderson, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
William Godwin, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, January 31, 1989
College of Literature Science, and the Arts
JohnM. Allen, Professor of Biology, with tenure
Medical School
James Gilsdorf, Instructor of Surgery, February 3, 1989
Marilyn Solsky, Instructor of Internal Medicine, January 31, 1989
David L. Spizarny, Assistant Professor of Radiology, February 28, 1989
Kenneth J. Weeks, Assistant Professor of Radiation Therapy, December 14, 1988
UM-Dearbom School of Engineering
Louis W. Wolf, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, April 30, 1989
Retirement Memoirs
No retirements were reported to the Regents he  this month.
Memorials
Provost Vest noted the death on March 19, 1989 of Peter Kilham, professor of
biology and research scientist for the Center for Great Lakes and Aquatic Sciences.
The Regents also unanimously adopted the following Memorial:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
February 23, 1989 of Kent Melville Terwilliger, professor of physics and associate
chair for research and facilities in the Department of Physics.
A pioneer in the field of experimental high energy physics, Professor Terwilliger
was inventor of the "Terwilliger quadrupole" -- a magnet system used in colliding high
energy particle beams; indeed, he was a co-author of the first article demonstrating the
feasibility of colliding particle beams, in 1956. In recent years he became one of the
world's leading experts in the field of accelerated polarized proton beams.
Professor Terwilliger was born in San Jose, California in 1924. He received his
B.S. degree from the California Institute of Technology in 1949 and his Ph.D. degree
in physics from the University of California at Berkeley in 1952. He joined the
University of Michigan Department of Physics in the fall of 1952.
Kent served on a number of national high-energy physics committees and
panels: he was a member of the high energy physics advisory panel of the Atomic
Energy Commission from 1968-71 and chair of the high energy physics users group at
-193 -



March Meeting, 1989


Argonne National Laboratory from 1962-64 and a Trustee of AUA, which manages
Argonne National Laboratory. On these and other committees, Kent was much
esteemed for his precise thought and astute insights. Kent was a recipient of a
Guggenheim Fellowship and was a member of the American Physical Society and the
American Association for the Advancement of Science.
In the Department of Physics, Kent was highly valued as a teacher and
collaborator and warmly regarded as a friend. A modest and self-effacing man, quiet
and reserved, he had the rare ability to pinpoint the crux of a complex research
problem. Always generous and supportive of the work of others, he filled his role as
associate chair for research with distinction; the faculty felt very welcome to bring
their problems and questions to him.
Kent was a physicist in mind and in spirit, with a deep love and respect for the
physical world in all its complexity. He was daring as a scientist -- a fact that his
modesty as a man occasionally concealed. His rigorous scientific honesty and careful
research provided a standard which inspired other scientists locally, nationally, and
indeed, internationally.
Kent has left an enduring mark on his students and colleagues, both through his
accomplishments as a physicist and his qualities as a person. He will be long
remembered as an unusually dedicated physics researcher who displayed dignity and
warmth in his efforts to study the universe, with no apparent interest in personal
recognition. As we mourn the loss of this great scholar and teacher, our condolences
go to his wife Doris and his sons Steven, Paul, Thomas, and John.
Degrees
On the recommendations of the proper authority in each case, the Regents
approved amendments to previously approved degree lists.
University of Michigan Hospitals Semi-Annual Accounts Receivable Report
The Regents received a report of patient accounts receivables for the period
June 30 - December 31, 1988. Vice President Womack said that one reason for the
increase in the days of revenue in net patient receivables has to do with delays in
processing of Medicare claims for ambulatory surgery.
Following some discussion, Regent Roach asked to be provided with figures
indicating how many unbilled inpatient accounts go back more than one year.
UM-Dearborn Campus Master Plan for Physical Development
Vice President Womack and Chancellor Wilson introduced university planner
Fred Mayer, who presented background information on the history and development
of the Dearborn campus. The current master plan for the Dearborn campus was
adopted by the Regents in 1973. In 1987, the firm of Johnson, Johnson, and Roy, Inc.
was retained to review and update the UM-Dearborn's Master Plan for Physical
Development. The firm was asked to pay particular attention to the Regents'
concerns about encroachment on the open space of the central campus area.
Mr. William McGibbon, president of Johnson, Johnson, and Roy, presented
details of the updated master plan via a slide presentation. He noted that the
UM-Dearborn is now a commuter campus with an enrollment of 7,500 students,
compared to an enrollment in 1973 of 2,000. The campus currently contains one


-194 -



March Meeting, 1989


million square feet of building space, with room for an additional 3 million square
feet.
Regent Brown moved approval of the UM-Dearborn Campus Master Plan for
Physical Development; Regent Varner seconded the motion. Discussion followed
during which the Regents asked questions about the student capacity on'the campus,
improvements to the campus entrance, the pedestrian walkway system, and the natural
space plan.
Regent Roach observed that he was reluctant to approve the plan without
having it described in detail in written form. He proposed amending the motion so
that the Dearborn Campus Master Plan for Physical Development would be approved
in principle, pending receipt of a specific written master plan. This motion was
unanimously approved.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project
The Regents then turned to consideration of the UM-Dearborn General
Campus Renovation Project. It was noted that funding for this project had been
requested as part of the UM-Dearborn capital outlay request in 1984, and has been
approved for funding by the state at $11.6 million. The project consists of renovation
of the original Student Activities Building (which is currently vacant) to house
administrative offices and the fine arts programs, remodeling of certain space in the
existing Classroom/Laboratory Building, and construction of a new wing to the latter
building to house the computing center and additional scientific laboratories.
Mr. Mayer explained that placement of the new wing will be in accordance with
the Regents' directives that arose when they reviewed the project in March of 1988.
Regent Smith noted that buildings originally used as student housing had been taken
over for administrative purposes, and asked whether they would eventually be
returned to use as housing. Mr. Bob Behrens, Vice Chancellor for Business Affairs,
commented that a space needs study will be done to determine priorities; use of the
space as apartments will be one consideration.
The vote was taken and the Regents unanimously approved the project budget
and authorized receipt of construction bids.
University Real Estate
Vice President Womack said that this proposal incorporates suggestions made
by the Regents when the policy was first presented at the February, 1989 Regents'
meeting. It represents a joint effort of the Development Office and the Office of the
Chief Financial Officer to formalize how the University receives real estate and
disposes of it by sale.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Vice President Cosovich said that
the procedures outlined in the proposed policy are generally the procedures that have
been followed in the past for acceptance of gifts. Regent Smith responded that in her
opinion, the proposal would discourage the donation of real estate; several other
Regents agreed.
Vice President Womack said that it is important to emphasize that the
specifications outlined in the proposed policy are legitimate, business specifications


-195 -



March Meeting, 1989


that are relevant to property matters, and that they are not different from the practice
that has been followed over time. He also emphasized that if the University were
approached with a potential gift of property, the officers would use reasonableness
and good sense; they would not turn down a gift that had potential intrinsic value to
the University. The policy would be used as a guideline.
Regent Roach concurred with the concerns raised by Regent Smith, stating that
he questioned whether Ford Motor Company would have given the gift of land that
became the Dearborn Campus if the proposed conditions, especially those that require
holding the University harmless for any environmental problems and conducting an
environmental study before deeding the property, had been in place.
Regent Nielsen said that he had asked during the previous month's discussion
for a legal opinion about whether the University could accept property subject to
findings of environmental and hazardous substance problems, and had requested a
legal opinion.
Acting General Counsel John Ketelhut presented the legal opinion that if the
University attaches such a condition, gift tax regulations would not allow the property
to be treated as a gift. If the University attached a condition that the property could
be returned to the donor if an environmental problem were found, the Internal
Revenue Service would not allow it to be treated as a gift for charitable contribution
purposes.
Regent Roach noted that the portions of the proposal dealing with the
indemnification agreement do not say "if considered necessary"; he felt that under
these conditions, people would not want to take the risk associated with donating
property. He said that if the words "if considered necessary" were added, he would
find the language acceptable.
Regent Baker suggested the policy would be more flexible if there were no list
of conditions; each gift would be examined on its own merit, and the University would
have the option of just not accepting property it found unacceptable for whatever
reason. Regent Smith supported that idea.
Vice President Cosovich said that the intent was to have it broadly understood
that these are the kinds of things considered in relation to gifts of property. President
Duderstadt emphasized that the intent was to provide internal planning guidelines that
the Board would be comfortable with. The policy was not intended to be cast in stone,
although he could understand how it could be regarded as a firm regental action. Vice
President Womack suggested that the policy be modified to read that "these are the
guidelines that University officials should use in reviewing the property", or
alternatively, "it is expected that University officials would exercise prudent business
judgement with respect to acceptance of a gift."
Regent Roach pointed out that the reason for the policy was to provide a means
for the Vice President to be able to handle certain real estate transactions without
specific Board approval in each case. Regent Baker again suggested that the policy
should merely state that each potential gift would be considered individually. Vice
President Womack confirmed that that was the intent, and that the motivation for the
policy was to provide a regularized way of disposing of property. He noted that the
action item and recommendations relate to the sales of donated real estate located
outside of Ann Arbor.


-196 -



March Meeting, 1989


Regent Nielsen moved to approve the action item requested by Vice President
Womack. He noted that at the February meeting the Regents asked that the
conditions listed on pages 2 and 3 in the Regents Communication not be included as
part of the policy, but that this request was not complied with in the current version of
the proposed policy. He again asked that these conditions be removed.
Regent Power seconded Regent Nielsen's motion, suggesting that everything in
the proposal under the heading of "Donated Real Estate" (pages 1 through the end of
the first paragraph on page 4 in the Regents Communication) be deleted, and that the
terms and conditions under which property will be accepted be treated as a separate
issue. Regent Nielsen accepted that as a friendly amendment to his motion.
Regent Brown pointed out that environmental issues will have to be addressed
by the Regents. It was his understanding that the Regents are now being asked to
guarantee indemnification against environmental damage when they sell property that
they own. Therefore the Regents should confront the problem of environmental
indemnification when accepting a gift. Regent Nielsen agreed, but said that he did not
feel that every potential donation of property should have to be subject to a list of
prerequisites.
President Duderstadt noted that the administration has a clear sense of the
Regents' sentiments regarding the need for flexibility in policies related to the
acceptance of donated property, but that the item now being voted on only relates to
disposal of property.
The vote was then taken, and the following policy on disposing of properties
owned by the Regents was unanimously approved:
Disposal of University-Owned Real Estate
General Procedures
Many problems exist in the ownership of properties located in outlying areas. The University does
not have the resources to provide constant supervision and is subject to squatters, pilfering, and
unauthorized use of its lands and possible liability to injured users. To fence and/or post "No
Trespassing" signs on donated properties would be costly. Therefore, it is in the University's best
interests to dispose of properties as expeditiously as possible.
Described below are the procedures currently followed for the sale of donated real estate. Once it
is determined that a property can be sold, the University ascertains the best way to market the property
using one of the following options:
-   If the property is vacant and located in a remote, rural area with little marketability, the
University notifies adsacent property owners or associations (if the property is located
within a development) that the property is available. When inquiries are received, we
request that a bid for the property, including terms, be submitted. Upon receipt of a
bid, an appraisal by a professionally designated appraiser is obtained.
-   If the property is vacant and located in an area that is growing and demand is high, one
of two choices will be made. The University may choose to retain the property for up
to five years as property values increase, or the property will immediately be put out for
bid. The bid process would be effected through advertising in local and/or national
newspapers whichever is appropriate. Prior to requestin bids, an appraisal by a
professionally designated appraiser would be obtained. A sae would be completed if
the best offer submitted is equal to or greater than the appraised value.
-   If the property is vacant or improved, and there appears to be a market for the
property, it is listed with a realtor to obtain better exposure. The listing price is either
established by the realtor based on market data or by an appraisal obtained by the
University. Negotiations take place through the realtor.
-197 -



March Meeting, 1989


All bids or offers are evaluated. Such evaluations take into consideration the appraised value
whether the terms offereard are reasonable and the marketability of the property. If a land contract is
requested, a minimum 20% downpayment is resuired with the term not to exceed 5 years. The interest
rate is one which is considered to be reasonable at the time, but due to the Michigan usury law, the
interest rate cannot exceed 11% if the property is sold to an individual or 15% if the property is sold for
business purposes. In the event that  terest rates were to rise higher than these levels, the sales price
would be increased to compensate the University for its inability to charge higher interest rates.
If the University controls the mineral rights to a parcel, these mineral rights are always retained.
Once the offer is considered to be the best attainable, it is submitted to the Regents with a
recommendation for approval.
If gift property for which a donor has claimed a charitable deduction exceeding $5,000 is sold
within two years of the gift date and for which the University has signed IRS form 8283 acknowledging
the gift, the University must notify the IRS of that sale, including the price.
Although many times it may appear desirable to retain a certain roperty until a more attractive
offer is received, past experience has been that donated properties are omten more difficult to dispose of
than others. Usually, prior to donating a parcel to the University, the donor has tried without success to
sell the property. To negotiate and accept a reasonable offer provides an opportunity to invest the sale
proceeds. In most instances, these investment returns would exceed any increased value obtained by
holding the property for a better offer.
Campus Area Properties
Although the administration of campus properties falls under the jurisdiction of many University
departments including Business Operations, Housing, etc., the acquisitions and sales of campus
properties are handled y the Investment Office.
Currently, when the University is advised the University is advised of the availability of a property near the cam pus a
review takes place to determine if any interest exists. If the property is identified as one desirable for
University programs, an appraisal is obtained from a professionally designated appraiser. With the
appraisal for support, the University negotiates with the owner or realtor to arrive at the best agreement.
A recommendation is submitted to the Board of Regents for approval to purchase a property only
after all the relevant issues are resolved and the University is confident it has negotiated a reasonable
agreement.
Similarly, prior to disposition of a campus area property, a review takes place by the various
departments involved in the administration of real estate. If it is determined there is no longer a need to
retain a particular property, Regental approval is requested to dispose of the property. An appraisal is
obtained from a designated appraiser to assist in establishing a value.
Due to the considerable interest currently existing for Ann Arbor properties, most excess campus
properties are put out for bid. If this demand were to decrease or if the property is an improved parcel
requiring continual showings, the property could be listed with a realtor. All transactions are negotiated
taking into consideration the appraised value, the offered price, terms, and proposed use.,eal. Estate Policy
To define and document these current practices and procedures, the following guidelines are
hereby approved:
Proposed real estate gifts to the University will continue to undergo careful review.
If there are no ongoing expenses associated with ownership of the property, its
acceptance will be reported in the monthly Investment Transaction report.
Properties with operating expenses, including those which will be additions to
University holdings for academic/ research programs, will be submitted to the Regents
for acceptance in accordance with Regents By-Law Sec. 3.05.
The University will attempt to dispose of donated properties which are determined
unsuitable for academic purposes or are non-investment grade by: negotiating an
exchange for Federal, State or DNR lands; notifying adjacent property owners or
associations; advertising in local newspapers; putting the property out for bid; listing
with a realtor. The Investment Office and the Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer will determine the appropriate means for disposition of a particular parcel.


-198 -



March Meeting, 1989


The University will negotiate a sale of donated real estate, taking into consideration the
appraised value, the offered price, the terms, the market area, and any other factors
which may influence the transaction. Only transactions considered to be advantageous
to the University will be considered.
Sales of donated out-state properties which exceed $30,000 will be submitted to the
Regents for approval and authorization.
Sales of donated out-state properties with a sales price less than $30,000 may be
approved and authorized by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer provided
tfe sales price equals or exceeds the appraised value. The resulting land contracts and
deeds executed by both the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and President
(Regents By-Laws Section 3.07) will be reported to the Regents as part of the monthly
Investment Transaction report.
The University will retain all mineral rights.
The University will require an earnest money deposit on all transactions. The deposit
will be negotiated on each transaction with an objective of 5% of the sales price. The
conditions regarding this deposit will also be negotiated (i.e., where deposit will be kept,
who receives interest earnings, etc.).
The University will continue to cooperate with brokers and will pay a commission on all
offers submitted through a broker. This commission will be negotiated and will
correspond with local market rates.
The University will continue to consider land contract offers requiring a minimum 20%
downpayment and a term not to exceed 5 years. The interest will be negotiated at a
reasonable level not to exceed 11% for properties sold to individuals and 15% for
properties sold for business purposes. In the event local mortgage interest rates are
higher than these levels, the sales price of the property will be adjusted to compensate
the University.
All expenses incurred during the University's ownership of a parcel will be charged
against the sale proceeds when the property is sold.
The purchase or sale of any Ann Arbor, Dearborn, or Flint campus area property
would require Regental authorization.
Regents By-Law Sec. 3.07 (1) is hereby amended to include new subsections a. and b. as follows:
a.  All sales of donated real estate located outside the Ann Arbor, Dearborn, or Flint campus
areas and with a sales price less than $30,000, and real estate that funds a Unitrust for any
amount or location, may be approved and authorized by the Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer and the resulting land contracts and deeds executed by both the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer and President. These transactions will be reported
to the Regents in the monthly Investment Transaction report.
b. All sales authorized by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer must equal or
exceed the appraised value.
Estate of Herbert L. Ziegenbien, Mineral Interest
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved execution of an oil and gas lease submitted by the Amoco
Production Company for a 7.5% interest in one mineral acre located in the SW
fractional 1/4 of Section 4, T17N, R1E, Billings Township, Gladwin County, Michigan.
North Campus Roadways
Vice President Womack informed the Regents that the state of Michigan,
through its "Michigan Institutional Roads" fund, has agreed to restore a section of
Hubbard Road between Huron Parkway and Green Road on North Campus. This
project is estimated to cost $250,000 and will be completed by the state during the
summer months of 1989.
-199 -



March Meeting, 1989


Regent Power suggested that the University send an expression of thanks to the
person in state government who was responsible for allocating funds for that purpose.
William D. Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall - Shepherd Wing Addition
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved the revised budget and authorized award of a construction
contracts to the low bidders Dale Krull Construction Company, Inc., Goyette
Mechanical Company, and Triangle Electric Company for construction of the
Shepherd Wing Addition to the William D. Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall.
Proposed Option Agreement and Related Research and License Agreement Between
the University of Michigan and a Small Business Start-Up Involving University
Employees and the University itself (Hambrecht & Quist Life Science Venture Partners)
Regent Power moved, Regent Nielsen seconded, and the Regents unanimously
approved an agreement whereby Hambrecht & Quist Life Science Venture Partners
("H&Q") will form a company (the "Company") in order to commercialize University
of Michigan research on the ex vivo production of blood cells and bone marrow cells.
The Company will fund a basic research project at the University with approximately
$1.2 million and H&Q will capitalize the company with a minimum of $2.5 million
over the next three years.
The University's project director (Dr. Stephen G. Emerson) and co-principal
investigators (Drs. Michael F. Clarke and Bernhard O. Pallson) are all full-time
University employees (hereinafter referred to as the "Researchers") and could be
considered parties to the contract because they will collectively receive options for up
to a 20% equity interest in the Company; additionally, Dr. Emerson will have a seat on
the Company's board of directors. Therefore, this agreement falls under the state of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the Option Agreement will be the University of Michigan,
the Company, and H&Q. The Option Agreement gives the Company
the right to enter into the Research and License Agreement at any
time during a six month period. Upon exercise of the option, parties
to the resulting Research and License Agreement will be the
University of Michigan and the Company.
2.  Option agreement terms include: a duration of up to six months;
nonrefundable payments to the University of $300,000 to cover any
initial research and patent expenses; the University would be able to
purchase necessary equipment and perform initial experimentation in
the laboratory facilities of the Researchers during this option period;
the Researchers and their laboratory staff would be involved in and
responsible for any research and experimentation performed during
this period.
Research and License Agreement terms include: approximately $1.2
million in research funding to the University over a three year period
and the grant of exclusive license rights to the Company for the life of


-200 -



March Meeting, 1989


resulting patents; included in the $1.2 million figure will be the
$300,000 paid during the option period; the University's standard
indirect cost rate for industrial sponsored research will be charged for
the research; at least during the Company's start-up period, e.g., one
to three years, the University will be able to elect a member to the
Company's board; the University will receive a 15% equity position in
the Company, vesting immediately, and a 2% royalty on products
utilizing University technology; the three Researchers will collectively
receive options vesting over four years for up to a 20% equity position
in the Company; the Researchers have requested that they be
permitted to take their stock directly from the Company and that this
direct equity interest would be in lieu of their participating in the
incentives provided under the University's royalty distribution policy;
the University research laboratories normally assigned to the
Researchers will be used in the standard manner for performance of
the University research obligations; the Project Director is expected
to devote approximately a 20% effort to this research project, while
the two co-principal investigators each anticipate a 10% effort;
various additional University research personnel will be assigned to
the project as deemed necessary by the Project Director to perform
research within budget limitations; all resulting patent rights will be
owned by the University.
3.  The Researchers' pecuniary interests arise from their acquiring
options for stock ownership in the Company. The University will
have both an equity interest in the Company and a royalty interest in
products utilizing University technology.
Vice President Wilson further noted that in the interest of better understanding
technology transfer and management of conflict of interest, upon approval of this
agreement she will appoint a person to monitor and report on the results of these
arrangements during the course of Company-sponsored University research. After the
close of the research, it is anticipated that information gathered during this time will
result in a final report describing the various factors contributing to an overall positive
or negative University experience. It is hoped that this study will add to the University
of Michigan's understanding and the understanding of other universities into looking
to identify workable mechanisms for combining university research needs with those of
technology transfer and economic development.
Proposed Agreement between the University of Michigan and an Employee (Dr.
Walter Loesche) Regarding Ownership in Inventions
Regent Roach moved, Regent Power seconded, and the Regents approved an
agreement with Dr. Walter Loesche, a professor and full-time University employee,
granting him ownership of inventions which may in the future arise out of research
funded by Oral-B Laboratories. This arrangement falls under the state of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute, since Dr. Loesche is a University employee and party to
the contract. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the Agreement will be the University of Michigan and Dr.
Walter J. Loesche.


-201 -



March Meeting, 1989


2.  Terms of the Agreement include: a duration for so long as Oral-B
continues to fund University research under the terms of its license
agreement with Dr. Loesche; the University would assign to Dr.
Loesche its ownership rights in inventions resulting from the research
funded by Oral-B in accordance with its license with Dr. Loesche;
with respect to any royalties resulting from such new inventions (as
opposed to royalties resulting from the previously reassigned
Invention), Dr. Loesche would share such royalties with the
University in accordance with the University's standard Royalty
Distribution Policy (as opposed to simply providing 15% to the
University); no use of University facilities or services will be
authorized or required under the proposed Agreement, however, this
proposed Agreement does implicitly allow for use of University
facilities and services as part of a separate research grant between the
University and Oral-B; with respect to such grant the University's
normal proposal review and contract processes will be followed and
Oral-B will pay all direct and indirect costs associated with the
project.
3.  Dr. Loesche's pecuniary interest arises from the potential royalties he
would receive from Oral-B for any inventions assigned to him under
this Agreement. The University would also receive a share of
royalties from such inventions.
It was further noted that royalties that may result from this Agreement will be
shared in accordance with the University's standard policy, and that Oral-B will be
under an obligation to use reasonable efforts to make the benefits of the inventions
commercially available to the public. Vice President Wilson said that the agreement
serves the interests of all parties: the University, the inventor, and the company.
Following some discussion and comments by Mr. Robert Gavin, Director of the
Intellectual Properties Office, the Regents voted unanimously to approve the
assignment agreement.
Reassignment of the University's Ownership Interest in Intellectual Property
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved a request by a University employee, Ronald W. Sutton, for
reassignment by the University of its ownership in intellectual property developed by
Mr. Sutton ("Comfort Support Shoe Insert"), according to standard terms approved by
the Regents on July 16, 1987.
Because Mr. Sutton is a University employee who will also be a party to the
Assignment Agreement, this arrangement falls under the state of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in accordance with statutory
requirements:
1.  Parties to the Assignment Agreement(s) will be the University of
Michigan and Ronald W. Sutton.
2.  The terms and pecuniary interests were previously disclosed to and
approved by the Regents on July 16, 1987 and are hereby
incorporated by reference in this Action.


-202 -



March Meeting, 1989


Nomination of Trustee for W. W. Cook Trust
The Regents unanimously approved the nomination of Terrence A. Elkes a
trustee of the W. W. Cook Trust, of which the Law School is a beneficiary.
William D. Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall - Shepherd Wing Addition
Regent Baker inquired whether the design of the roof of the Shepherd Wing
Addition to the William D. Revelli Band Rehearsal Hall had been modified. Mr.
William Krumm, Director of Business Operations, responded that it had not; the cost
of modifying the roofline would have been $87,000.
Membership for University of Michigan Hospitals in the Washtenaw/Livingston
Medical Control Corporation
The Regents unanimously approved membership for University of Michigan
Hospitals in the Washtenaw/Livingston Medical Control Corporation.
Membership for Dr. Nathanial Rowe in the Michigan Dental Association
Regent Brown moved, and Regent Baker seconded, approval of membership in
the Michigan Dental Association for Dr. Nathanial Rowe, a faculty member in the
Department of Oral Medicine, Pathology, and Surgery.
A discussion ensued about the costs of memberships in professional
organizations, and the University's policies on paying faculty dues to professional
organizations. President Duderstadt emphasized that dues for medical and dental
memberships are paid out of Medical Service Plan funds. It was suggested that a
review of the University's general policies concerning membership in professional
organizations may be in order.
Following the discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was approved
unanimously.
Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the University Hospitals Executive Board, the
Regents unanimously approved several appointments to the medical staff of
University of Michigan Hospitals.
Changes in Bylaws, Rules, and Regulations of the Medical Staff
On the recommendation of the University Hospitals Executive Board, the
Regents approved several specific changes to the Medical Staff Bylaws, Rules, and
Regulations.
1989 Henry Russel Award
The Regents confirmed the selection of Susan A. Gelman, Assistant Professor
of Psychology, to receive the 1989 Henry Russel Award.


-203 -



March Meeting, 1989


Sarah Goddard Power Memorial Fund
Regent Power announced that the family of former Regent Sarah Goddard
Power had created a memorial fund in her name. This fund will be a discretionary
fund under the control of the President. He handed out a booklet that describes the
fund and gives details about Sarah Power's life and contributions to the University of
Michigan. He thanked Vice President Cosovich and his staff for their assistance in
creating the fund and the publication.
The meeting was then recessed to allow participants to move to the Anderson
Room of the Michigan Union for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Bryan Mistele, Eric Herrenkahl, Vinette Walker, C. Anthony Philips
(students), and George Mavrodes (professor of philosophy), on behalf of Cornerstone
Christian Fellowship, about religious discrimination and freedom of speech issues;
Robert Morgan, citizen, about AFSCME local 1583 and University Hospitals; Sonia
Saiz, student, about reinstatement in the Dental School; Donna Deman, citizen, about
her medical records; Marcia Federbush, citizen, about equal opportunity in athletics;
Don Tobocman and Luis Vasquez, students, about purchasing recycling paper.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will be held on April 20 and 21, 1989. Regents' travel, accommodation, telephone,
and other miscellaneous expenses for the month of February, 1989 totalled $727.10.
ichard L. Kennedy, Secrety


-204 -



APRIL MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, April 20, 1989
The Regents met at 10:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, and Varner. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, and Womack were also present, as was
Chancellor Wilson. Regents Brown and Waters and Chancellor Jones arrived shortly
after the start of the meeting.
President Duderstadt called the meeting to order and introduced Provost Vest,
who was to give a presentation on the Costs of Higher Education.
Costs of Higher Education
Provost Vest noted that he would be presenting preliminary discussion of this
topic; the Task Force on the Cost of Higher Education would be examining these
issues in greater detail.
Provost Vest explained that it is important to distinguish between a) the "total
cost" of educating students and the "cost to the student" and b) the "total cost of
running the University" and the "cost of teaching". In discussing costs, it is also
important to indicate which students are being referred to, as the costs of educating
undergraduate, graduate, professional, and continuing education students vary greatly.
He emphasized that costs are driven by mission-based decisions (related to the
University's mission of education, research, and service); by specific decisions (hiring,
purchasing, programmatic, construction, financial aid); and by intellectual,
socioeconomic and demographic, regulatory, and technical change. Costs related to
the development of new knowledge include faculty and staff, equipment, facilities, and
infrastructure; the dissemination of knowledge incurs costs in new books, new journals,
and new media (especially electronic).
Provost Vest pointed out that the Higher Education Price Index (HEPI) has
tended to exceed the Consumer Price Index over the years by 1% to 2%. He displayed
a graph that illustrated that in constant 1988 dollars, staff benefits and salary costs
have been relatively constant, while the real growth in the General Fund budget has
been in nonsalary expenditures, which consist primarily of equipment.
There has been a real growth in non-salary budgeted General Funds of $71
million from 1978-79 to 1988-89. This growth has occurred in the following areas:
student financial aid ($12 million); operations and infrastructure ($12 million);
information technology ($11.8 million); College of Engineering ($11.6 million); fee
allocations ($6.8 million); College of LS&A ($5.3 million); central initiatives ($4.8
million); libraries ($2.5 million); Office of Minority Affairs ($1.2 million); School of
Business Administration ($1.2 million); and other ($1.9 million).


-205 -



April Meeting, 1989


General Fund expenditures can be broken down into three specific cost areas:
faculty, facilities, and financial aid. Provost Vest displayed several graphs and charts
that illustrated statistics about the faculty. These included data on number of faculty,
and trends in faculty salary and productivity. Other graphs illustrated the growth in
externally-sponsored research over the past 10 years. He summarized the data on
faculty by saying that while the total number of faculty has remained constant,
productivity and the amount of sponsored research has substantially increased.
From 1981 to 1988, University facilities have expanded by 1.6 million square
feet. Almost one-half of this (762,000 square feet) is accounted for by the new
University Hospitals building. Parking structures (mostly in the Medical Center)
accounted for 318,000 square feet. The remainder of space expansion occurred in the
College of LS&A (123,000 square feet); the Medical School (94,000 square feet);
Information Technology Division (largely for computer clusters 80,000 square feet);
the Law School (Law Library and Institute for Continuing Legal Education 70,000
square feet); the School of Business Administration (44,000 square feet), and the
College of Engineering (42,000 square feet). Much of this growth in facilities has been
funded by external sources.
Regent Baker commented that at a construction cost of $100 per square foot,
this expansion has contributed $1.6 billion to the economy of the city, the county, and
the state over the past 10 years. President Duderstadt pointed out that less than 20%
of the space is supported by the General Fund.
Regent Power observed that it is important to point out the costs that are
associated with maintaining and operating new buildings. Provost Vest noted that the
state has announced that it will no longer fund operating costs associated with new
buildings whose construction was not funded by the state.
Regarding the financial aid portion of general fund expenditures, Provost Vest
stated that it is the policy of the University of Michigan to meet the demonstrated
financial need of all Michigan resident undergraduate students. He described the
financial aid award model that is used to determine the financial aid package received
by individual students, and displayed a chart that illustrated the steady increase in the
amount of General Fund financial aid expenditures since 1981.
Provost Vest then described reallocation and cost control measures that the
University has invoked in recent years. Reallocation measures have included the
priority fund, the five-year plan, and strategic initiatives that have been undertaken by
the past three provosts; cost control has included management incentives and the
energy cost avoidance program.
In conclusion, Provost Vest named the people who had been appointed to the
Cost of Higher Education Task Force. He said that the charge to the task force is to
analyze the costs of education at the University of Michigan, identify key external and
internal forces driving the costs, and recommend ways to reduce costs without
adversely affecting the quality of programs.
President Duderstadt noted that there had been a recent article in the Ann
Arbor News that suggested that there had been a major shift in the manner in which
the University was investing its resources. Provost Vest said that he had refined the
interpretation of the data presented in that article to give a somewhat different
perspective.


-206 -



April Meeting, 1989


Displaying a chart that showed the headcount of employees by EE06 categories
(excluding Hospitals and graduate student research assistants) in October, 1977 and
October, 1988, he noted that although the total numbers had increased in some of the
categories, the amount as a percentage of the total staff headcount had remained
nearly constant. Thus, the professional, executive, managerial category had risen from
4% of the total staff in 1977 to 5% in 1988; professional, nonfaculty category had risen
from 27% to 31%, and the percentage of faculty had gone from 25% to 24%.
In response to a question from Regent Power, Provost Vest said that he was
illustrating only General Fund figures because that is the fund that is of most concern
to state taxpayers, legislators, students, and their parents.
Provost Vest's data indicated that the total workforce headcount from 1977 to
1987, excluding the Hospitals, has been relatively constant, at between 11,000 and
12,000. In full-time equivalent (FTE) numbers from all funds, including the hospitals,
there was a 20% overall increase from 1980 to 1988. However, in General Funds, the
FTE rose 2%. He concluded that the overall growth in headcount paid for from
General Funds from 1980 to 1987 has remained relatively constant.
Regent Roach pointed out that auxiliary activities are self-supporting, so that
growth in these areas does not impact the University's General Fund.
Regent Baker observed that societal problems, such as recycling, represent
another factor that causes costs to increase at the University. He noted that the
Regents recently approved a student fee increase for funding a solid waste recycling
project in Student Housing, and that alternative solutions to solid waste disposal may
have been less costly from a cost/benefit analysis sense than the one chosen. He said
that alternative solutions to funding increased costs, other than through student fee
increases ought to be explored.
President Duderstadt pointed out that in recent times the University has been
assigned new roles in research, health care, and social leadership by the state and
nation, and that the University needs to address the question of whether it has the
resources to play all of these roles. Provost Vest noted that some of the staff growth at
the University is caused by federal government reporting requirements.
Regent Baker repeated his assertion that the student fee increase for recycling
could have been used for other needs, such as equipment or salaries, and that a
mechanism should be developed to analyze these decisions.
Regent Roach noted that the recycling fee would be paid only by students who
live in residence halls, and that the decision to assess the fee had been made by the
students themselves.
Regent Power said that the University could address productivity by developing
and organizing costs as a function of various activity levels. He also suggested that in
its management and accounting practices, the University disaggregate between
activities that are funded from revenue and those that are cost-neutral.
Regent Power further suggested that one aspect of the charge to the Task Force
on the Cost of Higher Education be revised so that the focus is not solely on reducing
costs, but on managing costs. This would place the emphasis on how to relate costs to
the resources available. Finally, Regent Power commented on how the decentralized


-207 -



April Meeting, 1989


nature of the University makes it difficult for it to manage, rather than report,
information, especially in the area of hiring.
The meeting recessed at 12:00 noon.
Thursday, April 20, 1989
The meeting reconvened in the Regents' Room at 1:15 P.M. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith,
Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy, and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson, and Womack were also present, as were
Chancellors Jones and Wilson.
President Duderstadt recognized Regent Roach, who moved the following
resolution:
Resolution in Honor of John D. Ketelhut
The Regents of the University wish to recognize and thank John D.
Ketelhut for his thoughtful and important service as Acting General Counsel.
Offering sound advice to both the Board and to what has seemed like a
constantly changing cast of Executive Officers, he has quietly and competently
kept the University on the proper legal course.
The Regents are most grateful for John Ketelhut's help and hard work and
express both their high regard for him, and their appreciation for his assistance,
not only during this period, but in his continuing service with the University.
The resolution was approved by acclamation.
1989 CESF Report
President Duderstadt introduced Professor Larry Root, to present the annual
report of the Ann Arbor Campus' Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty.
Professor Root introduced his colleagues, Professors Jesse Gordon and Richard
Lichtenstein, Professor Emeritus Cecil Nesbitt, and Assistant Director of University
Library Yvonne Wulff.
Professor Root noted that salaries for assistant and associate professors are
competitive with those at peer institutions, but those for full professors are not. CESF
is also concerned with discrepancies in salaries between departments, with those of
some departments being below average University salary levels. For example, average
salaries in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts are less than those in
non-LSA departments.
CESF's overall recommendations, therefore, are to 1) maintain the competitive
position of assistant and associate professors; 2) upgrade the salaries of full professors
to make them competitive with those of peer institutions; and 3) provide additional
resources to increase salaries for units that have below average salary levels.


-208 -



April Meeting, 1989


In response to questions from the Board and the President, Committee
members said that faculty members tend to make salary comparisons with colleagues
within the University, rather than at other universities. Professor Root also stated that
the Committee would need to have more information on the budget process in order
to prioritize requests for increases in faculty salaries versus benefits versus support
staff.
Status of the 1989-90 State Budget Request
Provost Vest led a discussion of the status of the current state budget request.
He noted that Michigan ranks 32nd among all states in the amount of state
appropriation as a percentage of tax revenue, and that there is a 19% gap between
Michigan and states in the top third. A similar situation exists when considering the
amount of state appropriation per state head count. An increase of $210 million (19%
to 20%) would be necessary to bring the state within the ranks of the top third.
As a first step, this year's budget requested an increase of 2% above the
expected rate of inflation. However, the Governor's recommendation was for 2% less
than the anticipated rate of inflation, a total of 3.9%. This recommendation
encompasses a 3% across the board increase in the base budget; while the.9% is the
operating cost recommendation for new facilities. In addition, the Governor
recommended that the state change its current policy and only provide operating costs
for facilities that were originally funded by the state. He noted that this provides a
disincentive for institutions to seek private funding for new facilities. Provost Vest
explained that a 1% increase amounts to $1.7 million dollars for the University's fiscal
year.
The University's 1989-90 incremental request totalled $51.1 million ($32.7
million for minimum needs, $5.5 million for restoration and new initiatives, and $12.9
million for other critical needs). The governor recommended an increase of $8.1
million, and the University anticipates receiving a $3 to $4 million increase in indirect
costs. Because the only other source of revenue is tuition, a tuition increase will have
to be considered. Provost Vest noted that a 1% tuition increase creates a net revenue
increase of $1.8 million. He also pointed out that the amount of state support is now
equal to the amount of support received from tuition.
Chancellor Jones noted that the situation is the same for the branch campuses.
President Duderstadt said that most state institutions are anticipating double-digit
tuition increases for the coming year.
Regent Power observed that the state is currently spending five times more per
year per prison inmate ($20,000-$25,000) than per student at state universities
($4,000-$5,000), and that this indicates there has been a public policy choice that
"warehousing people in prisons is four to five times more important than educating the
children of the state."
Regent Roach noted that the overall Michigan state budget will increase only by
2.5% in 1989-90. Thus, if some programs have increases of above 2.5%, others will
have to experience decreases. Regent Brown pointed out that an additional problem
created by prison construction is that it is bonded, which means that a portion of each
succeeding year's budget will be earmarked to pay off the bonds, in addition to the
permanent increased operating costs.


-209 -



April Meeting, 1989


Regent Roach said that he believes there is no elasticity remaining on
nonresident tuition; the University will not be able to maintain its competitiveness if it
continues to increase.
Following further discussion of the 1989-90 budget process, the Regents turned
to the regular agenda.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
approved the Minutes of the March, 1989 meeting.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted reports on Investment Transactions, Plant
Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations. He also submitted a quarterly
Report on Noncompetitive Purchases over $2,000 from Single Sources, January 1 to
March 31, 1989.
Vice President Wilson submitted a report of Projects Established, Research and
Other Academic Activities, March 1 to March 31, 1989, and Summaries of a Selection
of Current Research and Sponsored Projects.
The Regents voted unanimously to receive the Reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich filed several reports of gifts received for March, 1989.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, he said that there is a substantial
nonalumni donor constituency, much of it accounted for by the University radio
stations.
The following gifts were received with thanks and in accordance with their terms
and conditions:
Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas
for support of the Medical School                                          5,000
American Cancer Society, Inc. Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and in the College of Pharmacy       211,168
American Chemical Society, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts          20,000
American Heart Association, Inc Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                        30,395
American Lung Association New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                         6,250
Ann Arbor Civic Ballet, Ann Arbor
for pediatrics support in the University of Michigan Hospital              5,000
Anonymous Donor
for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Antimicrobial Therapy, Inc Richardson, Texas
for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics        5,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology   27,007
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology   22,564
ASDA Foundation, New York, New York
for chemotherapy research in the Medical School                           150,000


-210 -



April Meeting, 1989


Esther Tuttle Bailey Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       10,232
Beecham Group PLC Headquarters, Middlesex, Englanf
for the Global Leadership Development Program in the School of Business
Administration                                                               20,000
Bo Enterprises, Inc., Cincinnati Ohio
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics     10,000
Margaret L. Brown Estate
for the George Granger Brown Memorial Fund in the College of Engineering     17,205
Capital Cities Foundation, Inc. New York, New York
pledge payment for the Journalists m Residence Endowment in the College of
Literature Science, and the Arts                                             37,500
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Greenwich, Connecticut
for research in the School of Social Work                                   270,500
Chevron U.SA., Inc., Concord, California
for naval architecture scholarships in the College of Engineering            14,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfeld
for research in the Medical School                                           21,750
Donald S. Chisholm, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $20,000 for the Joseph Savarino Memorial Fund in the
School of Music                                                               5,000
Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the School of Public Health                                  86,810
Ethel C. Coller Estate
for support of the University of Michigan Hospital, in memory of Ethel C. and
HazelG. Coller                                                             2,600,987
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for public policy research in the School of Public Health                    16,000
Council on Library Resources, Washington, D.C.
for support of the Michigan Historical Collections                            5,000
Council for Tobacco Research-U.SA., Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           24,426
Gilbert A. Currie, Midland
first payment on a pledge of $250,000 for the Sports Services Building, Department
of Athletics                                                                 50,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           16,196
Dayton Hudson Department Store Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the University of Michigan-Flnt, Summer Shakespeare Repertory Theatre     6,000
E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Wilmington, Delaware
for support of the School of Business Administration, the College of Engineering, the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the College of Pharmacy, and the
Institute of Science and Technology                                          85,000
Eastman Kodak Company Rochester, Ne-w York
for the Global Leadership Development Program in the School of Business
Administration, and for the Eastman Kodak Fund in the College of Engineering  23,500
Eaton Corporation, Southfield
for unrestricted support of the College of Engineering                        5,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  18,450
0. C. Fischer,-Inc., Royal Oak
for research in the Medical School                                           10,000
W. R. Flannery, Pontiac
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Services Building, Department
of Athletics                                                                 10,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work, the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and
the Institute for Social Research                                           187,583
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the Neil Staebler Political Education Fund in the Institute of Public Policy Studies  25,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
first payment on a pledge of $2.5 million for the development of a curriculum in
business and engineering to support research and degree programs in manufacturing
systems, including the William Clay Ford Professorship                      500,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
pledge payment for research in the College of Engineering                    50,000
Henry L. Foster, Newton, Massachusetts
pledge payment for the Sumner J. and Laura Foster Economics Library in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                          5,000


-211 -



April Meeting, 1989


Janet Frane, Webster Grove-s Missouri
first payment on a pledge of $250,000 for the Robert E. Frane Endowed Scholarship
in the School of Business Administration                                    100,000
Mr. and Mrs. Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
first payment on a pledge of $37,500 for support of the Humanities Institute, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts                                          5,000
Ruth Tuttle Freeman, Lansing
for unrestricted support of the Law School, in memory of Arthur J. Tuttle and Esther
Tuttle Bailey                                                                25,000
General Electric Company, Schenectady New York
for the Manufacturing Forum in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation San Francisco, California
for support of the School of Music                                           23,000
J. Paul Getty Trust, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Michigan Historical Collections                         120,000
Genevieve Gilmore Trust, Kalamazoo
pledge payment for support of the School of Music addition                   10,000
General Motors Foundation, nc., Detroit
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program                  5,000
Morris Goldseker Foundation of Maryland, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the School of Social Work                                    30,000
William T. Grant Foundation, New York New York
for research in the School of Social Work                                     8,748
Neva 0. Graves Estate
for research in the Medical School                                           10,000
GTE Service Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,325
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan Ann Arbor
for research in the Medica School                                             5,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for population studies research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  140,000
Gladys A. Hoffman Estate
for the Kathryn E. Hoffman, M.D. Memorial Scholarship                        10,000
Hoffmann-La Roche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey
for research in the College of Pharmacy                                      25,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Coconut Grove, Florida
for additional electrical power for the Medical Science Research Building-I  27,300
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Toyko, Japan
for research in the Institute of Science and Technology                      10,000
International Heart of Variety, New York, New York
for the International Heart Surgery Program in the Medical School            16,667
ITT Corporation, New York, New York
pledge payment for capital projects in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Mr. and Mrs. Larry L. Johnson, West Bloomfield
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Sports Services Building, Department
of Athletics                                                                 20,000
Merrill N. and Dawna K. Johnson, Naples, Florida
for the Sports Services Buildingy Department of Athletics                     5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Prnceton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                    78,241
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation-Canada, Willowdale, Ontario
for research in the Medical School                                           21,500
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           13,290
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research in the Medical School, the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, the Institute for Social Research, and pledge payment for the
Presidential Initiatives Fund                                              1,266,670
Richard P. Kughn, Dearborn
pledge payment for the new University of Michigan Hospital                  100,000
Hazel Lake Estate
for research in the Medical School                                           60,853
L. S. B. Leakey Foundation, Pasadena, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies                                            7,900
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,100
Edwin H. Lyon Estate
for the Edward Howard Lyon Scholarship                                        5,000


-212 -



April Meeting, 1989


Benard L. Maas Foundation Ann Arbor
for the Raoul Wallenfurg Scholarship in the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning                                                                      5,000
Bernard L. Madoff, New York, New York
for the J. Ira Harris Center for the Study of Corporate Finance in the School of
Business Administration                                                       5,000
Mallery Charitable Trust, Flint
Tor WFUM stereo conversion, the University of Michigan-Flint                 25,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School, and in the Institute of Gerontology      30,000
Mather Seal Company, Milan
for support of the Federal Mogul Fund, the University of Michigan-Dearborn    5,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey 
for research and other support in the Schools of Business Administration and Medicine,
and in the College of Pharmacy                                               26,265
John E. Missimore Estate
for the Norma and John Missimore Endowed Scholarship in the College of Pharmacy  45,398
Mary C. Morris Estate
for the Emory W. Morris Memorial Fund in the Medical School                 100,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundations Flint
for research at the University of Michigan-Flint                             50,000
Ruth Mott Fund, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Summer Shakespeare Repertory Theatre    5,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           16,500
National Bank of Detroit Charitable Trust, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,255
Nissan Research & Development, Inc. Ann Arbor
for research in the Institute of Science and Technology                       5,000
Northwest Airlines, St. Paul, Minnesota
for support of the C. S. Mott Hospital, Benefit Golf Classic                  5,000
Mr. and Mrs. Bennie G. Oosterbaan, Ann Arbor
first payment on a pledge of $10,000 for the Sports Services Building, Department of
Athletics                                                                     5,000
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                           16,962
Fred Palma Estate
for the Fred and Sally Palma Memorial Fund in the Medical School             11,765
Pew Charitable Trusts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for research in the School of Public Health                                 175,000
Power Foundation Kalamazoo
for the Sarah Goddard Power Memorial Fund                                     5,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for ergonomics research in the College of Engineering                        20,000
Edwin F. Redies Foundation, Inc. Saline
pledge payment for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship in the School of Business
Administration                                                                5,000
Douglas F. Roby, Sr. Grosse Pointe Farms
200 shares of Texas Eastern Corporation common stock; for the Sports Services
Building, Department of Athletics                                            10,125
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for population planning research in the School of Public Health              23,218
Rose Fund, Inc., NewYork, New York
pledge payment for capital gifts pending designation                         10,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Social Work, and in the Institute for Social Research  36,916
Albert G. and Olive H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for research in the Institute of Gerontology                                  5,000
Security Bank & Trust, Southgate
for the Douglas A. Hayes Scholarship in the School of Business Administration  75,000
Siemens Medical Systems, Inc., Iselin, New Jersey
for support of the Medical School                                            18,000
Benjamin and Mary Sley Foundation, Washington, D.C.
for support of the Medical School                                            10,000
Smokeless Tobacco Research Council Inc., New York, New York
for pathology research in the Medical School                                 43,933
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the School of Education, the Institute of Gerontology, and the Institute
for Social Research                                                         330,190


-213 -



April Meeting, 1989


Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
for the Helmut Stern Fund in the Museum of Art                                 14,423
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources                                16,900
Maxine J. Tobias, Ann Arbor
for the Max E. Tobias Memorial Scholarship                                     25,000
Ralph G. Trimborn, Kettering, Ohio
for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics            15,000
Union Carbide Corporation, South Charleston, West Virgina
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts      15,000
Universal Press Syndicate, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Journalists i Residence Endowment in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts                                                                        5,000
Bo 0. Vannort Estate
for the C. and M. Donovan Scholarship in the College of Engineering             5,000
Leota M. Wilson Estate
for the Leota M. Wilson Fund in the Medical School                             90,074
World Health Organization, Zurich Switzerland
for research in the College of Pharmacy, and the School of Public Health      149,350
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Dr. and Mrs. Matthew C. Andrea, Grand Rapids
a Butterfly sailboat hull with accessories; for Camp Michigania
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Mu Indiana
thirteen Fisher Ames autograph letters and documents (1789-1803); for the Clements Library
Ford Motor Company, Detroit
a photomultiplier chromatograph and spectrophotometer; for the University of MichiganDearborn, Department of Natural Sciences
Irwin T. and Shirley  oltzman, Grosse Pointe Farms
1,176 items comprising the Irwin T. and Shirley Holtzman William Faulkner Collection; for the
Department of Rare Books and Special Collections, the University Library
Joseph J. Jorgensen, Irvine, California
a variety of Anthropology books and journals; for the Mischa Titiev Library of Anthropology
Personnel Actions
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
approved the following Personnel Actions:
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1989
Sherman A. James, Ph.D., Professor of Epidemiology
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on dates indicated
Lloyd A. Jacobs, M.D., Assistant Dean of the Medical School and Associate Professor of Surgery,
April 1, 1989
William 0. Stratton, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Business Administration, UM-Dearborn,
September 1, 1989
Andrew T. Turrisi III, M.D., Associate Professor of Radiation Oncology, May 1, 1989
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Sister Barbara Cervenka, O.P., Assistant Dean for Graduate Affairs and Lecturer in Art, reappointed
Assistant Dean for Graduate Affairs, for a two-year term
Marion E. Jackson, Associate Dean for External Relations and Assistant Professor of Art, reappointed
Associate Dean for External Relations, for a two-year term
-214 -



April Meeting, 1989


Kenneth G. Lieberthal, Director of the Center for Chinese Studies, and Professor of Political Science,
with tenure, reappointed as Director of the Center for Chinese Studies
William Muschenheim, Professor Emeritus of Architecture, reappointed to offer instructional sessions
in architectural design, May 1, 1989
June E. Osborn, Dean of the School of Public Health, Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of
Public Health, and Professor of Pediatrics and CommunicableDiseases, without tenure, Medical
School, reappointed Dean of the School of Public Health, for a five-year term
Eugene M. Pijanowski, Associate Dean for Student Relations and Lecturer in Art, reappointed Associate
Dean for Student Relations, for a two-year term
Malayappan Shridhar Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, and Chair of the
Department of'Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Chair of the
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, for a three-year term, January 1, 1989
Maurice. Sinnott, Professor Emeritus ofChemical and M7etallurgical Engineering, reappointed to be
Principal Investigator for the continuing DARPA-DOD Materials Research project, May 1, 1989
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Tamas I. Gombosi, Associate Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic and Space Sciences, without tenure,
appointed Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure, May 1, 1989
John Jonides, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, appointed Associate Dean for Research and
Computing, for a two-year term
Benjamin A. Stol, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, appointed Chair of the
Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures, for a two-year term
Henry T. Wright Professor of Anthropology with tenure, appointed Director of the Museum of
Anthropology, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989
The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Engineering Executive Committee
N. Harris McClamroch, for a four-year term, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1993, vice James 0.
Wilkes, term expired
College of Literature. Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Paul N. Courant, for a three-year term, July 1,1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Donald J. Munro, term
expired
Bruce W. Frier, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Marilyn J. Shatz, term
expired
College of Pharmacv Executive Committee
James K. Coward, or a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Ronald W. Woodard,
term expired
UM-Flint Citizens Advisorv Committee
Joseph Anthony, to succeed himself for a four-year term, beginning April 20, 1989
Mary Hernandez-Simon, to succeed herself, for a four-year term, beginning April 20, 1989
Robmin Owens, to succeed herself, for a four-year term, beginning April 20 1989
Charles Weeks, to succeed himself, for a four-year term, beginning April MO, 1989
UM-Flint School of Management Executive Committee
Hossein Shalchi, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1991, vice Barnard E. Smith, term
expired
Robin N. Widgery, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1991, vice John A. Larson, term
expired
Approval of Two-Year Leaves of Absence. The Regents approved a two-year
leave of absence for Robert D. Hanson, Professor of Civil Engineering, effective
January 1, 1989 through December 31, 1990. Professor Hanson will serve as Director
of the Division of Fundamental Research and Critical Engineering Systems with the
National Science Foundation.
The Regents also approved a two-year leave of absence for Jack R. Lohmann,
Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering and Associate Dean in
-215 -



April Meeting, 1989


the College of Engineering, effective February 6, 1989 through February 5, 1991.
Professor Lohmann will serve as Program Director for Engineering, Division of
Undergraduate Science, Engineering and Mathematics Education, at the National
Science Foundation.
Dow Corning Assistant Professor of Chemistry. The Regents approved the
appointment of Carol Korzeniewski as the Dow Corning Assistant Professor of
Chemistry, effective May 1, 1989 through May 31, 1991.
Change in Title of Vice-Chancellor and Dean of Academic Affairs at
UM-Dearborn. The Regents approved a change in the title of Eugene Arden from
Vice-Chancellor and Dean of Academic Affairs to Provost and Vice-Chancellor of
Academic Affairs.
Resolution Recognizing the Service of a Retiring Member of the Citizens Advisory
Committee at UM-Flint
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
approved a resolution recognizing the service of David Laro as a member of the
Citizens Advisory Committee at UM-Flint. Regent Roach noted that Mr. Laro is a
Regent Emeritus, and asked that he be recognized as such on the resolution.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the Personnel Reports for April, 1989. Regent Baker
noted the impending retirement of Carl D. Johnson, professor of landscape
architecture, and commented on the immense contributions he had made during his 29
years of service at the University.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective March 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Dentistry
Hom-Lay Wang, D.D.S., Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Medical School
Norman A. Ernst, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, March 15, 1989
Andreas R. Huber, M.D., Lecturer in Internal Medicine
David E. Mellenberg, Jr., Ph.D., Instructor of Radiation Oncology, February 27, 1989
School of Music
Jeffrey P. Gilliam, M.M., Assistant Professor of Music, September 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Medical School
Jussi J. Saukkonen, Lecturer in Internal Medicine and Surgery, leave without salary, February 6 - May 31,
1989
School of Music
George R. Cavender, Professor of Music, with tenure, and Lecturer in Education, retirement furlough,
September 1 1989 - May 31, 1990
Jacob Krachmalnici, Professor of Music, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
Abe Torchinsky, Professor of Music, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990


-216 -



April Meeting, 1989


UM-Dearbom School of Engineerin
Joseph E. Sullivan, Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, retirement
furlough, May 1 - December 31, 1989
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Donald E. DeGraaf, Professor of Physics, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
CHANGES TO PREVIOUSLY REPORTED ADMINISTRATIVELY
APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
T. Michael Sanders, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, changed to January 1 - May 31,
1990
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Office of the Vice President for Research
William Kerr, Director of Michigan Memorial Phoenix Project and Professor of Nuclear Engineering,
with tenure
College of Architecture and Urban Plannin
Leonard K. Eaton, Emil Lorch Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning, with tenure
Carl D. Johnson, Professor Landscape Architecture, with tenure
Joseph J. Wehrer, Professor of Architecture, with tenure
School of Dentistry
Laurence W. Seluk Assistant Professor of Dentistry, April 30, 1989
Merrill A. Wilson, Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1989
College of Engineering
Chiao M. Chu, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
Alan B. Macnee, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure
College of Literature, Science. and the Arts
Wayne D. Frasch, Assistant Professor of Biology
Peter Kilham, Professor of Biology, with tenure, March 19, 1989
Kent M. Terwilliger Associate Clhair and Professor of Physics, with tenure, February 23, 1989
Edgar F. Westrum, [r., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Medical School
Gary M. Glazer, Professor of Radiology, with tenure, March 3, 1989
School of Music
Rae L. Brown, Assistant Professor of Music
Andres J. Cardenes, Associate Professor of Music
Robert S. Hatten, Assistant Professor of Music
Jay D. Lesenger, Associate Professor of Music
Echart H. SeIlheim Associate Professor of Music
Louis J. Stout, Professor of Music, with tenure
Division of Physical Education
Stephen J. Galetti, Associate Professor of Sports Management and Communication, with tenure
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Linda W. Brinn, Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, April 30, 1989
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Kendall B. Cox, Assistant Professor of Philosophy


-217 -



April Meeting, 1989


Retirement Memoirs
Regent Smith moved, and Regent Power seconded, that the Regents adopt a
retirement memoir for William J. Johnson, professor of landscape architecture.
Regent Power noted that last year Professor Johnson had received the gold medal of
the American Society of Landscape Architects. This medal is given irregularly and
only in recognition of one's total contributions to the profession; it is the equivalent of
the Nobel Prize in the field of landscape architecture. The Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoir:
William J. Johnson, professor of landscape architecture and former dean of the
School of Natural Resources, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1988.
Professor Johnson received his B.S. degree from Michigan State University in
1953 and his M.L.A. degree from Harvard University in 1957e He joined the
University of Michigan as an associate professor in 1958; he was promoted to
professor in 1963 and served as dean of the School of Natural Resources from
1975-83. In reappointing Professor Johnson as dean in 1980, the Regents noted that
he had "taken the School of Natural Resources through a challenging period of
reorganization and redefinition of its role." During that period, Professor Johnson
encouraged the development of the School's multi-disciplinary approach, which has
become one of its major strengths today. He helped develop and strengthen the
landscape architecture program at the University of Michigan.
Professor Johnson founded the architectural firm of Johnson, Johnson, and Roy
in the early 1960s, serving as principal investigator and project director. Some of his
major work as a professional landscape architect includes projects for the Michigan
State Highway Department, the Lansing Capitol Mall, the City of Chicago lakefront,
the Traverse Bay Regional Planning study, development plans for corporate
headquarters, and campus development plans for more than 50 institutions. In 1976,
he was a visiting professor of landscape architecture at Harvard University. Upon
completion of his term as dean, Professor Johnson received the highest honor of his
profession, the American Society of Landscape Architects Medal, in recognition of his
outstanding contributions to his profession. He was cited for distinguishing himself as
a designer, private practitioner, and educator. He currently operates William J.
Johnson, Inc.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member, administrator, and
professional practitioner by naming William J. Johnson Dean Emeritus of the School
of Natural Resources and Professor Emeritus of Landscape Architecture.
Memorials
The Regents unanimously adopted the following memorial:
Peter Kilham, professor of biology in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, died suddenly on March 19, 1989, while participating in a scientific expedition
evaluating the effects of global pollution on Lake Victoria in Kenya.
Professor Kilham was born in Salisbury, England, in 1943. As a naturalized
citizen of the United States, he received his B.S. degree with honors in biology from
Dartmouth College in 1965 and his doctorate from Duke University in 1971.
Following a year of postdoctoral studies at the Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution, he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1972 in the
Department of Biology. He was also a research scientist in the Center for Great
Lakes and Aquatic Sciences of the University.


-218 -



April Meeting, 1989


Professor Kilham was an internationally recognized contributor to the study of
the biochemistry of inland waters. Though his interests were particularly broad and
extended from the functioning of northern bogs to saline inland waters of arid regions,
he was most noted for his sage syntheses of the chemistry of African lakes. He was
recently awarded the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation Prize for a study period in
the Federal Republic of Germany.
Professor Kilham possessed a passion for knowledge. He was constantly
pouring over library holdings from diverse disciplines. He had an ability to integrate
findings from geology, paleontology, and chemistry with biology into effective
syntheses, some of which induced considerable controversy and are still being
evaluated. He never avoided ideas or subjects outside of contemporary dogma.
Professor Kilham spent considerable time in Africa, particularly in Kenya. As
he studied lakes in East Africa, he became interested in tribal African cultures and
their integration with the environment. He had a fine collection of Masai tribal art.
He held great concern for the manner in which the freshwater resources of the
world are often being exploited unwisely. His counsel and expertise were constantly
sought by peers and students; his guidance will be deeply missed. We extend our
profound condolences to his wife Susan.
Degrees
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Waters seconded, that the Regents approve
amendments to previously approved degree lists. They also moved approval of the
tentative doctoral degree list for the Spring, 1989 commencement of the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies. The motion was unanimously approved.
Regent Roach requested a copy of a specific dissertation having to do with
funding of higher education.
Property in St. Clair County, Michigan
Regent Roach moved that the Regents accept an offer of $175,000 for sale of
the Smith's Creek property, a 40-acre parcel of land in St. Clair County, Michigan with
a man-made lake, house, and other improvements. The offer was submitted by Pat
Roberts on behalf of Thomas M. Niebauer, subject to the conditions described in the
Regents' Communication and to the University's retention of the mineral rights.
Regent Power seconded the motion.
Inasmuch as the offer was $75,000 below the $250,000 appraised value, Regent
Smith said that she felt the 10% commission to be paid to the realtor was excessive
and would set a bad precedent. She noted that 6% is the normal commission rate in
this area of the state. Vice President Womack replied that he believed the
commission to be reasonable under the circumstances, and Regent Brown said that a
10% commission was not uncommon in his area.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion carried, with
Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Varner, and Waters in favor and
Regent Smith opposed.
7.17 Acre Parcel, Burt Township, Cheboygan County, Michigan
Regent Nielsen moved, and Regent Brown seconded, authorization for the
Biological Station to contribute $3,000 toward the purchase of a 7.17 acre parcel


-219 -



April Meeting, 1989


adjacent to the south of the Colonial Point Forest. Upon completion of the purchase,
the Little Traverse Conservancy will convey the parcel to the University to be
managed by the Biological Station.
Following some discussion, the vote was taken, and the motion was unanimously
approved.
Maintenance and Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved the following projects: 1) certain specified state-funded Special
Maintenance Projects; 2) Randall Laboratory Computer facility for Physics
Department; 3) Medical Science II Renovations for Human Genetics; 4) Plant
Building A - Expansion; 5) Medical Science I-Renovation for Pathology; 6) Central
Campus Recreation Building Renovation for Fitness Research Center; and 7)
University Hospital and Taubman Health Center Door improvements.
Financing for Sports Service Building
Vice President Womack noted that at their September, 1988 meeting the
Regents had authorized proceeding with a preliminary design of a Sports Service
Building with an estimated budget of $12 million. A final budget and funding plan was
to have been submitted with a request to award the construction contract. Although
sufficient gifts have not yet been received to be able to begin the project, the trend
toward receiving the gifts is sufficient to be able to request the Regents' authority to
begin the financing process. This is a request for approval of arranging the financing
of the construction cash flow for up to $10 million for a period of five years.
Vice President Womack emphasized that such approval would not constitute a
decision to build or to award a contract for construction. Such a request would be
forthcoming within a few days or weeks if fundraising efforts to raise the additional
necessary funds are successful.
Regent Nielsen moved approval of the arrangements; Regent Power seconded
the motion. Regent Nielsen inquired as to the prospective date when bond sales might
occur. Vice President Womack replied that this date would be in June.
Athletic Director Bo Schembechler was present to respond to the Regents'
questions. He explained that since construction would take 15 months, it was
necessary to begin construction soon so that temporary quarters would only be
necessary for one football season and one spring season. The intention is to move into
the building in August of 1990. Present pledges total $8 million; the goal is to have
$12 million by the time of the Notre Dame football game in September, 1989, and he
said he felt confident that he could reach that goal. Coach Schembechler informed
the Regents that the current quarters have already been vacated, and that a
construction firm has agreed to donate its services to demolish these quarters and
prepare the ground for construction. In response to questions, he said that demolition
could begin as early as the following Monday and that the architectural drawings are
in final form.
Vice President Womack noted that if fundraising efforts in the next few weeks
are sufficient, the Regents will be asked to award the construction contract to the low
bidder at the May meeting and approve financing the following month.


-220 -



April Meeting, 1989


Following further discussion, the vote was taken, and the following Resolution
was unanimously approved:
Resolution
Resolved, that the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer be
authorized and directed to proceed with a program for financing up to
$10,000,000 for construction of the Sports Service Building and that the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer be authorized and directed as follows:
1)  together with John Nuveen & Company, Inc. develop the terms for the
bonds, and to prepare and circulate a preliminary official statement or
circular, describing the Sports Service Building and the University and its
affairs; and
2)  to apply for and obtain from appropriate rating agencies ratings on the
bonds; and
3)  to obtain and negotiate a commitment for a credit/liquidity facility in the
event the bonds are to be issued on a variable rate basis; and
4)  to obtain a finalproposal for the Bonds, including price and interest rates,
which final proposal would be submitted to the Board of Regents for its
approval and acceptance.
Regent Smith then moved the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution to the Dream Team
The Regents of the University wish to commend and congratulate Coach
Steve Fisher, Athletic Director Bo Schembechler, the Michigan basketball
team, the assistant coaches, trainers, and other staff for their spectacular
participation in the recent NCAA Men's Basketball Tournament that
culminated in winning the National Championship in Seattle on April 3, 1989.
The leadership of the University of Michigan in intercollegiate athletics
has been legendary. It has known no prouder moment, however, than what the
nation witnessed when this splendid group of student athletes and their coaches
accomplished what no other men's basketball team had achieved before at this
university a National Championship in the NCAA Basketball Tournament.
As amazing as the victory was, it is equally important to note and
commend the exemplary way in which this team conducted itself throughout
the tournament. They were, to a person, committed and courageous in the
pursuit of a common goal. The Regents salute their accomplishment and
extend their appreciation and gratitude to each and every player and coach.
The resolution was approved by acclamation.
Parking Lease Agreement at UM-Flint with the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation
Chancellor Jones informed the Regents that the UM-Flint is negotiating a lease
agreement for lease of a 130-space parking lot adjacent to the Harrison Street Parking


-221 -



April Meeting, 1989


Structure. The agreement will allow the University to relocate the parking spaces,
should the University ever wish to use the originally leased spaces for other purposes.
The consideration for the lease agreement will be used for the funding of the
construction of a new library at the University of Michigan-Flint, for which the Mott
Foundation has also given a grant of $1.4 million.
Regent Baker commented that the Mott Foundation had given a very generous
gift, and he supported the lease arrangement.
Proposed Research Subcontract between the University of Michigan and a Small
Business Incorporated and Owned by University Employees (Anjoy Marketing
Consultants, Inc.)
Professors Claes G. Fornell and Michael J. Ryan, of the School of Business
Administration, have incorporated a business known as Anjoy Marketing Consultants,
Inc. Professor Fornell serves as president of Anjoy and Professor Ryan serves as
chairman of the board. The University has negotiated a research contract with the
Swedish Post Office; a subcontract to Anjoy has been proposed for the performance of
several project tasks including development of materials for use in Sweden. The
copyrightable materials developed by Anjoy will be owned by the University and will
be provided by the University under license to the Swedish Post Office.
This arrangement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute,
because Professors Fornell and Ryan are University employees and are also parties to
the contract by virtue of their ownership of Anjoy. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1)  Parties to the contract will be The University of Michigan and Anjoy, a
corporation wholly owned by Professors Fornell and Ryan and their
spouses, with each owning a 25% share.
2)  The subcontract to be signed with Anjoy is the University's standard
research subcontract. In the primary contract, the University will be
paid $657,500.00 in direct costs and $119,155.00 in indirect costs by the
Swedish Post Office. The proposed subcontract to Anjoy is in the
amount of $100.000.00. The period of performance of both the prime
and subcontracts will be one year. The use of University facilities will
not be required by Anjoy in the performance of its responsibilities to
the University under the proposed subcontract. Though the University
will not assign University employees to performance of subcontract
tasks, there will be individuals hired by Anjoy as consultants who area
also employees of the University in the capacities of teaching assistants
and research assistants for unrelated projects.
3)  Professor Fornell's and Professor Ryan's pecuniary interest arises from
their ownership of Anjoy, each owning a 25% share.
Regent Roach expressed some concerns and asked to see some documentation
on the proposed arrangement. Regent Power asked that in the future, more
information be provided explaining unconventional contracts of this type. Following
further discussion and a report from Associate Dean Miller of the School of Business
Administration explaining the history of this particular arrangement, the Regents
voted unanimously to approve the University's entering into the research contract with
Anjoy.


-222 -



April Meeting, 1989


Report of the Biological Research Review Committee
Vice President Wilson presented the annual report of the Biological Research
Review Committee, which presents data on recombinant DNA research being
conducted at the University.
The Regents noted that the reporting requirements were initiated when
recombinant DNA research was just getting underway in the mid-1970's, but that
initial fears that this type of research would be extraordinarily hazardous have turned
out to be unfounded. Regent Roach suggested that for this reason, the Board may
decide to modify the Regents' reporting requirements for recombinant DNA research.
Recommendation for Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On the recommendation of the Executive Board of the University of Michigan
Hospitals, the Regents unanimously approved several appointments to medical staff
membership.
Regent Roach then made the following motion:
Motion to Meet in Executive Session
Pursuant to Section 8(h) of the Michigan Open Meetings Act, as
amended by 1984 PA 202, I move that the Board of Regents meet in closed
session at 5:00 P.M. on April 20, 1989 in the Regents' Room, Fleming
Administration Building, for the purpose of considering material exempt
from discussion or disclosure by the Michigan Freedom of Information
Act. Such exempt material consists of a written opinion from the Board's
legal counsel.
Regent Power seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
The meeting was then recessed to allow the participants to move to the
Anderson Room of the Michigan Union for Public Comments.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: John Coleman, student, about MSA; Robert Morgan, citizen, about
supervisory problems involving AFSCME worker; Aaron Williams, president of MSA,
about MSA; Cornelius Delro Harris, Chair of the MSA Minority Affairs Commission,
about alleged discrimination involving Michigauma; and Dona Deman, citizen, about
her medical records.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. Transportation,
accommodation, and miscellaneous expenses for the Regents totalled $1,499.66 for the
month of March, 1989. The next meeting will take place on May 18 and 19, 1989.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secr  y


-223 -



MAY MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, May 18, 1989
The Regents met at 10:00 A.M. in the Fair Lane Mansion on the campus of the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Roach,
Smith, and Varner. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Wilson. Controller Chandler Matthews attended the meeting in place of
Vice President Womack, who was absent. Regent Brown arrived shortly after the start
of the meeting. Regent Waters was absent.
Regional Campuses
University of Michigan-Flint. The meeting began with a videotape presentation
by Chancellor Jones about the history and role of the Flint Campus of the University
of Michigan. Chancellor Jones said that in the coming years the UM-Flint plans to
complete the development of the Riverfront Campus. He noted the regional impact
of the UM-Flint in terms of its effect on the revitalization of Flint's downtown and the
research and technical assistance in economic development it provides.
In the area of program development, the UM-Flint is increasing its emphasis on
science and technology programs and on applied research efforts. There are plans to
ascertain whether there is a need for student housing, but nothing would be
considered that would negatively impact Flint residents. The Flint campus also plans
to seek a modest expansion of graduate program offerings, increase the level of
collaboration with other area colleges and universities, strengthen existing
undergraduate programs, and increase the diversity of the student body, faculty, and
staff.
Chancellor Jones pointed out some of the activities sponsored by UM-Flint that
contribute the cultural and intellectual enrichment of the community. He noted in
particular the efforts being undertaken in cooperation with the public school system to
enrich students' education and thus better prepare them for post-secondary education.
Finally, he noted that the UM-Flint is continuing its efforts to improve the campus's
competitive posture by improving faculty and staff salaries.
Regent Baker complimented Chancellor Jones on his excellent presentation,
and noted that the riverfront campus was serving as a catalyst for growth of the
community in its vicinity. Regent Baker cautioned that any plans to provide student
housing would constitute a major decision, and would need a lot of thought. Regent
Nielsen said that Senator Riegle and private investors have discussed the possibility of
providing a residential facility that would also serve community college campuses. He
believed that the Flint community was behind the idea, and that the Board may have
little say in it.
Regent Roach observed that if the UM-Flint were to become residential, it


-225 -



May Meeting, 1989


such a mtove should have the aff tie a oal of the Board before any  nds were
expended.   egent Roach also questioned the need for an expanded engineering
program, stating that he thought that need was filled by the General Motors Institute
in Flint.
Chancellor Jones responded that GMI did not serve the purpose proposed by
expanding the UM-Flint's engineering program, which would be more oriented toward
physical engineering. He noted that Mott Community College has a two-year
engineering program for which no local institution provides follow-up education. He
also cautioned the Regents not to shut out the option of there being some residential
facilities on the Flint campus, noting that the administration took pride in its status as
a regional campus and had no plans to change to a residential one. Current plans are
to merely explore what the response of students would be if there were some housing
available.
Regent Nielsen reiterated that his sense was that the residential facility will be
built regardless of the Board's desires, and that for that reason, the Board should
participate in its planning and development.
Regent Power noted the recent death of Co Harding Mott, and stated that he
hoped that UM-Flint would find a suitable way to mark his career and involvement
with the UM-Flint community. He also said that the University should attempt to
have an impact on the fate of the Autoworld development.
Universi.t of Michigan-Dearborno Chancellor Wilson described the University
of Michigan-Dearborn as an example of the "Contemporary Regional University". She
noted that in a survey of area corporate and government leaders, the critical issues
they expressed were economic development transferable manufacturing-related
research, postgraduate traiingaining/reaining, expansion of international trade, and
environmental enhancemento She mentioned some of the demographic characteristics
of the greater Detroit area that affect the UM-Dearborn, such as its geographical
location, the presence of a large Arabic community9 increasing minority and female
enrollments, increasing numbers of part-time students and students over age 25.
Chancellor Wilson pointed out several ways in which the UM-Dearborn serves
the needs of the greater Detroit area within the context of its historic role and mission.
These include the Manufacturing Systems Engineering Laboratory and Program,
evening and professional and continuing education programs, and contributing toward
the cleanup of the Rouge River.
Among the ways that the UM-Dearborn is participating in the University's
diversity and pluralism agenda are through the Wade H. McCree, Jr. Incentive
Scholarship Program and the Detroit Compact. Building upon its traditional
strengths, the UM-Dearborn is developing a Strategic Action Plan which it will use to
help determine future direction and growth.
Following Chancellor Wilson's presentation, the Regents focused discussion on
the UM-Dearborn's position in relation to the other universities and industry in the
greater Detroit area, and how it could best help to serve its various constituencies.
Regent Power pointed out that other area universities have carved out specific niches
for themselves, and that the UM-Dearborn could do that, too.


-226 -



May Meeting, 1989


In response to a question from Regent Roach, Chancellor Wilson said that the
UM-Dearborn's affiliation with the University of Michigan is a weakness as well as a
strength because it is difficult for its constituents to believe that UM-Dearborn does
not have all of the financial resources available to UM-Ann Arbor. This poses
problems of marketing and communication.
Regent Smith noted the discouraging Detroit high school graduation statistics
shown in Chancellor Wilson's report, and wondered how else the UM-Dearborn could
help the public schools. Chancellor Wilson responded that there are many programs
underway, and that in order to increase the pool of minority college students, the
University has to participate in efforts to help students complete high school.
Regent Varner noted that Wayne State University has a far greater proportion
of Black students than UM-Dearborn. Chancellor Wilson pointed out that
UM-Dearborn has had to overcome the racist image of the city of Dearborn that had
been perpetuated by its former mayor. Regent Roach observed that another difficulty
in attracting Detroit residents to UM-Dearborn is lack of public transportation.
There was further discussion of the perception that UM-Dearborn is in
competition with Wayne State University and other area universities for students.
Chancellor Wilson stressed that UM-Dearborn is not in competition with other
universities; it is trying to emphasize its strengths and develop collaboration whenever
possible.
Discussion then shifted to the broader role of the branch campuses as part of
the University of Michigan. President Duderstadt pointed out that Dearborn and
Flint are rapidly changing communities, and the branch campuses in these areas can
serve the state in ways that the UM-Ann Arbor cannot. Regent Power noted that on
the Ann Arbor campus, research plays a larger role than it does on the branch
campuses. Thus it might behoove the branch campuses to emphasize service in such a
way that they could enhance retraining and economic development efforts in the face
of a changing economic base.
Chancellor Wilson agreed that the strength of the Dearborn campus is that it
combines teaching, research, and service in a manner that can best fulfill the purpose
described by Regent Power. Regent Baker cautioned that economic development in
southeast Michigan has followed the development of the transportation corridor, and
that the success of universities' efforts is dependent to some extent on their location.
The meeting then recessed for lunch.
The meeting resumed at 2:00 PoM. at the Fair Lane Mansion. Present were
President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith,
Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice
Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as were Chancellors
Jones and Wilson. Controller Chandler Matthews attended the meeting in place of
Vice President Womack, who was absent.
CESF Report, UM-Flint
Professor Raymond Roth presented the report of the Committee on the
Economic Status of the Faculty at UM-Flint. He noted that in average salary
comparisons at class IIA institutions, UM-Flint ranked seventh last year and ninth this


-227 -



May Meeting, 1989


year, and that the downward trend is continuing. He also noted that UM-Flint faculty
is interested in having a flexible benefits program.
In response to a question from Regent Power asking why the peer institutions
used by UM-Flint were different than those used for UM-Dearborn, Professor Roth
said the UM-Flint's peer institutions were chosen when CESF first met in 1985 and at
that time were not coordinated with UM-Dearborn.
CESF Report, UM-Dearborn
Following further discussion, Chancellor Wilson introduced Professor Arefaine
Yohannes, chair of the UM-Dearborn CESF. Professor Yohannes noted that
although the faculty and students at UM-Dearborn are excellent, with student grade
point averages of entering freshmen second-highest in the state, average faculty
salaries are below those at the eight other Michigan Class IIA universities.
The recommendations of the UM-Dearborn Committee on the Economic Status
of the Faculty are, for the short-term, to bring the average salaries of UM-Dearborn
faculty up to those of its peer institutions. This would cost $400,000. For the
long-term, the committee recommends raising salaries to the 80th percentile, the total
cost of which would amount to $600,000 (based on 1987-88 data).
Regent Power observed that an examination of the faculty retention rate would
give a good indication of the extent of the salary problem. He also said that to him,
the median is more revealing than the mean when examining compensation rates.
Regent Roach noted that the UM-Dearborn has not been treated well in the
legislative process in recent years, and that the legislature has not provided any funds
to enhance UM-Dearborn salaries. The University needs to plan to resolve the
inequity of UM-Dearborn faculty salaries, because it won't be able to maintain quality
in a competitive environment unless it does.
Regent Smith requested a list of the Michigan IIA peer institutions used for
UM-Dearborn faculty salary comparisons.
Status of the Budget
Provost Vest reviewed the budget process, stating that the state legislature will
most likely adopt its 1989-90 budget in June, 1989. He said there were four sources of
general fund revenue: state appropriation, tuition and fees, indirect cost recovery, and
investment income, and documented the $51.1 million incremental needs request that
the University had proposed to the legislature for FY 1989-90. He stressed that a 1%
increase in tuition yields $1.7 million in net revenue increase, and that an increase in
expenditure of 1% for salary, staff benefits, and non-salary program costs $2.9 million.
Provost Vest noted that the governor had recommended an increase of 3.9%
($9.4 million) and the House had recommended an increase of 3.8% ($9.3 million);
the Senate was to meet the following week. Vice President Kennedy reported that
there are new revenue estimates from the state fiscal agency that indicate that there
may be additional funds available for higher education. More would be known by the
time of the next meeting.
Provost Vest displayed a chart indicating that the 1988-89 state appropriation


-228 -



May Meeting, 1989


yielded a net decrease when adjusted for inflation, and that this situation is likely to
occur again in the 1989-90 appropriation. Currently, only 50% of General Fund
revenues are provided by state appropriation (down from 80% in the 1960s). Revenue
projections indicate that an increase in the amount of sponsored research will yield a
15% increase in indirect cost reimbursement. That, coupled with the projected 3% to
4% increase in state support, will still be inadequate to meet the Umversity's critical
needs. This situation will impact the key decisions that the University will face in the
coming months: determining tuition levels, faculty/staff salary increments, and
reallocation and/or differential funding mechanisms.
According to figures gathered by the Provost, the increase in per capita income
for state residents from the early 1960s to the present has been greater than the
increased cost to Michigan undergraduates for tuition, room, and board. Regent
Baker pointed out that the University also provides a great deal of service to state
residents, such as that provided by the Medical Center and technology transfer
activities, that is not funded by state tax revenue. In response to a question from
Regent Baker, Provost Vest said that the University spends $40 million from all
sources in service to the state.
The Provost reiterated the University's policy that it will meet the demonstrated
financial need of all Michigan resident undergraduate students; Regent Power said
that a concerted effort ought to be made to communicate this policy to the present
student body, potential students, and their parents.
To restrain expenditures, Provost Vest pointed out that the University could
constrain the salary program well below inflation, forego some critically important
expenditures, and reallocate through differential funding and/or an "off the top tax"
(through which 1% of the base budget is taken "off the top" and reallocated to other
priorities). To balance the budget and provide a 2% increase in salary and nonsalary
expenditures (assuming a 3.9% state appropriation increase), tuition would have to
rise 10%; to provide a 4% increase in salary and nonsalary expenditures, tuition would
have to be raised 13%.
President Duderstadt reminded the Regents that for the past three years, the
UM-Ann Arbor has ranked 15th among the 15 state institutions in the amount of
incremental state appropriation it has received. Discussion followed about the process
by which funds are internally reallocated and how funding priorities are set. President
Duderstadt said that he expected the appropriation process to have been completed in
time for the administration to present its 1989-90 budget and tuition and fee request at
the June meeting.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Varner, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents
unanimously approved the Minutes of the April, 1989 Regents' Meeting.
Reports
The Regents received reports on Investment Transactions, the University
Endowment Fund Quarterly Inventory as of March 31, 1989, Plant Extension,
Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations from Mr. Chandler Matthews, representing
Vice President Womack. University Investment Officer Norman Herbert answered
some questions from the Regents about endowment manager performance.


-229 -



May Meeting, 1989


Vice President Wilson submitted reports on Research Volume Statistics,
Projects Established from April 1 to April 30, 1989, and Summaries of a Selection of
Current Research and Sponsored Projects. In response to a question from Regent
Baker, President Duderstadt said that it has been decided that the new Hospitals
substance abuse facility will not be built on the Radrick Farms site, and that other sites
are now being considered.
Vice President Wilson explained that this year the University expects a 50%
increase in the amount of federal research expenditures; that accounts for the increase
in projected indirect cost reimbursement revenues that were noted in the budget
presentation.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted the Summary Reports, Detail Reports, and
Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for the month of April, 1989. The following gifts
were received with thanks and in accordance with their terms and conditions:
Albert H. Adams Estate
640 shares of various corporate common stocks; for the Ross E. and Myrtle Maria
Adams Fund in the Medical School                                             32,443
Air Products & Chemicals Inc., Allentown, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,550
American Cancer Society, Inc. Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                  95,203
American Heart Association, Inc. Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School                                           83,473
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Nursing                          20,596
Kriss and Carol Arbury, Saginaw
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                   100,000
Georgia Armantrout Estate
for the Everett D. and Georgia R. Armantrout Fund in the Medical School      72,257
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                           10,167
AT&T Foundation, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,300
Roger K. Becker, Naples, Florida
200 shares of Old National Bancorp common stock; for the Revelli Band Rehearsal
Hall Addition                                                                 5,200
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
pledge payment for aerospace facilities in the College of Engineering       100,000
Albert Bradley Estate
for the Albert Bradley Fund in the School of Business Administration          5,000
Viola E. Bray Charitable Trust, Flint
for support of the University of Michigan-Flint, College of Arts and Sciences  10,000
Walter S. Brown Estate
for plastic surgery support in the Medical School                             6,772
Chevron U.SA. Inc., Concord, California
for the Chevron Fellowship in the College of Engineering, and for support of the
School of Natural Resources                                                   5,500
Chicago Community Trust, Chicago Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts              15,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           10,875
Chrysler Corporation, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                   10,000
Citibank, N. A., New York, New York
for support of the School of Business Administration                          5,000
Committee on Problems of Drug Dependence, Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for narcotics research in the Medical School                                 10,750


-230 -



May Meeting, 1989


Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York
for survey research in the Institute for Social Research                     70,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint, Summer Shakespeare Repertory Theatre    5,000
Bruce C. Conybeare, St. Jose ph
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for the Sports Services Building, Department of
Athletics                                                                     5,000
Mary Mallery Davis Flint
for support of WFUM-FM, the University of Michigan-Flint                      5,000
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit
pledge payment for the instructional complex in the College of Engineering   50,000
Dykema Gossett Law Firm, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the Law School, and for Employee Matching Gifts  11,000
Exxon Corporation International, Florham Park, New Jersey
for the Ergonomics Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering          20,000
W. Hawkins Ferry Estate
6 650 shares of various corporate common stocks; for the W. Hawkins Ferry Fund in
the Museum of Art                                                           451,276
FMC Corporation, Princeton, New Jersey
for support of the College of Engineering                                    15,000
Ford Motor Company Fund Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering                                     5,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering                 85,000
Fraternal Order of Eagles 2250, psilanti
for support of the Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center in the Medical
School                                                                        5,000
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for cardiology research in the Medical School                                17,558
Glaxo, Inc., Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for support of the Medical School                                            14,500
Glenell Associates, Tampa Florida
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Sports Services Building, Department of
Athletics                                                                    20,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for the Robotics Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Blanche M. Goodrich Estate
for support of WFUM-TV, the University of Michigan-Flint                     37,500
Virinder S. Grewal, Williamston
pledge payment for the Sikh Studies Endowment in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts                                                                  5,000
Hallmark Cards, Inc., Kansas City Missouri
for support of the School of Business Administration                          5,000
Harlan Foundation, Southfield
for unrestricted support of the Law School, in memory of Emmett E. Egan      10,000
Hemophilia Foundation of Michigan Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Public Health                                   9,000
Nell G. Herriman Estate
for ophthalmological research in the Medical School                           9,781
Mr. and Mrs. Robert L. Hooker Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business Administration  5,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School o? Public Health                                  52,852
Eileen L. Johnston, Wilmette, Illinois
for support of the College of Engineering                                     5,465
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            7,250
Berenice A. Kahmann Estate
5,763 shares of J. C. Penney common stock; for the Colleges of Engineering, and
Architecture and Urban Planning, in memory of Eberhard John Kahmann         310,615
Knight Foundation, Akron, Ohio
pledge payment for the Knight Specialty Fellowships in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies                                                  100,000
Betty Lambertson, Three Rivers
pledge payment for unrestricted support of the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                          5,000
Patrick Leoni, Dearborn
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                    10,000
F. R. LePage Bakery, Inc., Auburn, Maine
pledge payment for support of the School of Business Administration           5,000
-231 -



May Meeting, 1989


Leukemia Society of America, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                           31,373
Lockheed Leadership Fund Calabasas, California
for the Lockheed Fellowship in the College of Engineering                    50,000
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
20,000 shares of Masco Corporation common stock as first payment on a pledge of
$700,000 and other support; for the Armenian Studies Program and the Alex
Manoogian Chair in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts         505,000
Mazda Distributors Great Lakes Grand Rapids
for the Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Fund in the School of Business Administration  10,000
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay Medical Research Fund                    10,996
Medtronic, Bloomington, Minnesota
for thoracic surgery research fellowships and other support in the Medical School  5,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, Minnesota
for the 3MGraduate Materials Science Fellowship in the College of Engineering,
and for support of the Medical School                                        36,000
George R. Minor, Charlottesville, Virginia
for thoracic surgery research fellowships in the Medical School               5,000
Monsanto Company, St. Louis Missouri
for biophysics research m the Institute of Science and Technology            35,000
Monsanto Fund, St. Louis, Missouri
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,340
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the United States Inc., Detroit
for highway safety research in the Institute of Science and Technology      247,637
Thelma Fox Murray Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        5,000
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., New York, New York
for the College of Engineering                                               11,650
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School                                           13,500
National Retinitis Pigmentosa Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Medical School                                           20,856
Ronald V. Pellegrini, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
first payment on a pledge of $25,000 for thoracic surgery research fellowships in the
Medical School                                                                5,000
Millard H. and Mary S. Pryor, Ann Arbor
for the Journalists in Residence Endowment in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                              5,000
William Putich, Brecksville Ohio
first payment on a pledge of $30,000 for the Sports Services Building, Department of
Athletics                                                                    10,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute of Public Policy Studies                       50,000
Eber Harwood Rydholm Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       15,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research                            64,994
Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, New Jersey
for dermatology and newborn services support in the Medical School           52,100
Donald R. Shepherd Pasadena California
for support of the School of Music                                            5,000
Bruce H. Simpson Trust, Dearborn
for the Alice Simpson Memorial Endowment, the University of Michigan-Dearborn  5,000
Peter J. Slazinski Revocable Trust Southfield
for support of the School of Dentistry                                       10,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the School of Business Administration, the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and the Institute for Social Research                157,500
Helmut F. Stern, Ann Arbor
for the Neil Staebler Political Education Fund in the Institute of Public Policy Studies,
and for support of WUOM/WVGR                                                  5,120
Aaron M. Strefling, Palo Alto, California
pledge payments for the swimming and diving facility in the Department of Athletics  10,000
Margaret Dow Towsley, Ann Arbor
for support of the Center for the Continuing Education of Women              50,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Solon, Ohio
for automotive transportation research in the Institute of Science and Technology  5,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  13,517
-232 -



May Meeting, 1989


Robert P. Ufer and Associates, Bloomfield Hills
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Sports Services Building, Department of
Athletics                                                                   20,000
Union Carbide Corporation, South Charleston, West Virginia
for automotive transportation research m the Institute of Science and Technology  5,000
Union Pacific Corporation Bethlehem, Pennsylvania
for Employee Matcing Gifts                                                   6,000
Unisys Corporation, Detroit
for support of the University Musical Society                                5,000
UPS Foundation Inc., Greenwich, Connecticut
for hemodialysis support, the University of Michigan Hospitals               7,500
Warner-Lambert Company, Pharmaceutical Research Division Ann Arbor
for support of the Humanities Institute in the College of Literature Science and the
Arts for biophysics research in the Institute of Science and Technology and for the
the Center for Fitness and Sports Research in the Division of PhysicalEducation  23,040
Gaylord F. Wilkinson Estate
for the Gaylord F. Wilkinson Otolaryngology Fund in the Medical School      55,000
Lockwood and Geraldine Young, Honolulu, Hawaii
for the J. Robert Willson-Professorship in the Medical School               25,000
Zenkel Foundation, New York, New York
pledge payment and other support for the Lois and Bruce Zenkel Fund in the School
of Business Administration; and for the Zenkel Minority Scholarship and the Judaic
Studies Funds in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts           25,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
John Fluke Manufacturing Company, Inc., Everett, Washington
an analog multimeter, test lead set, and battery charger; for the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science
Nell G. HerrimanEstate
a land contract receivable on real estate located in Fort Wayne, Indiana; for the Department of
Ophthalmology
K. Gerald Marsden Ann Arbor
approximately 250 books and journals; for the Department of Psychology
Daniel E. C. Shaeffer, Milford
a four-channel TEAC tape player, and a seven-channel Peavey mixer; for WUOM
Personnel Actions
Promotions to the Ranks of Professor and Associate Professor. Provost Vest
reviewed the procedure by which promotion and tenure decisions are made, and
submitted the annual recommendations for promotion to the ranks of professor and
associate professor for the Ann Arbor campus. Chancellors Jones and Wilson noted
the promotions being recommended for the Flint and Dearborn campuses.
In response to questions from Regent Varner, Provost Vest noted that about
75% of the faculty is tenured, and that 50% of the faculty in the Colleges of LS&A and
Engineering have been hired since 1981. There was discussion about how the
Umversity is planning to address the next wave of retirements as well as the increase
in student population that will occur in 10-12 years following the current downturn of
college-age students. President Duderstadt said that the Association of American
Universities presidents will be meeting in Ann Arbor in the fall and a discussion of this
topic is on their agenda.
Resent Roach asked for more information on the discontinuance of the
Program in Community Health in the School of Public Health, and asked whether the
Regents' Program Discontinuance Guidelines had been followed.
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents
approved the following Personnel Actions:


-233 -



May   eeting 198


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Charles M. Baxter, Ph.D, Professor of English Language and Literature
Ruth Behar Ph.D, Associate Professor ofnthropology
Joel N. Breg s, Ih.Do, Associate Professor o Astronomy
Joseph G. Conon,l Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics
Pramod P. hargonekar, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, July 15, 1989
Melvyn T. Korolkin, M.D., Professor of Radiology
Donald S. Lopez, Jr. Plh.D., Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies
J. Tobias Staflord, Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics
Karla T. Taylor, Ph.D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature
PROMOTIONS TO THE RANKS OF PROFESSOR AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 1989
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Hemalata Dandekar, from Associate Professor to Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure
Mitchell J. Rycu, from Assciate rofessor to Professor of Urban Planning, with tenure
School ofArt
Takeshi Tatahara, from Associate Professor to Professor of Art with tenure
School of Business Administration
Roger. Kormendi, from Associate Professor to Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy,
with tenure
Vladimir Pucik, from Assistant Professor to  ssocate Professor of International Business, without
tenure
Joel B. Slemrod, from Associate Professor to Professor of Business Economics and Public Policy, with
tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, with tenure, in the College of
Literature Science, and the Arts
F. Brian Talbot, from Associate Professor to Professor of Operations Management, with tenure
School of Dentistrv
Katheime Dryand-Vig, Associate Professor of Orthodontics and Pediatric Dentistry, awarded tenure
School of Education
Anne   u   es Gere, from Associate Professor to Professor of Education, with tenure, and from
Associate Professor to Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Collezge of Engineering
Ronald M. Gigenach, from Associate Professor to Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure
Pierre T. Kabamba, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with
tenure
Pisti B. Katehi, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, with tenure
W. Monroe Keyserling, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations
Enin eering, with tenure
Edward W. Larsen, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, awarded tenure
Dimitris Pavlidis, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, awarded tenure
Richard E. Robertson, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, awarded tenure
Duncan G. Steel, from Associate Professor to Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
with tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, without tenure, in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Demosthenis Teneketzis, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, awarded
tenure
John L. Volakis, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure
Henry Y    ang, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
School of Information and Library Studies
Francis X. Blouin Jr., from Associate Professor to Professor of Information and Library Studies, with
tenure, and from Associate Professor to Professor of History, without tenure, in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Carolyn 0. Frost, from Associate Professor to Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure




b1'  Meeting9 989


Law School
lR  ecca S. Eisenberg, from Associate Professor to Professor of Law, wth tenure
Colle e o Litertare Science, and the Arts
Water. en, rom Associate P  essor to Professor of Sociology and Afroamerican and African
Studies, with tenure
Gregory D. Bothun from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Astronomy, with tenure
Wesley M. Browsn from Associate Professor to Professor of Biology, with tenure
Robert L. Danly, from Associate Professor to Professor of Japanese Language and Literature, with
tenure
Martha So Feldman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science and Public
Policy with tenure
Susan A. Gelman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Deborah E. Goldberg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
Henry Co Grifmf,  from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Alexander N. Halliday, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, awarded tenure
Anne C. Herrmann, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English Language and Literature
and Women's Studies, with tenure
Donald J. Herzog, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Richard. Hume, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
P. Jeganathan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure
Neil. Kalter, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Louis E, Loeb, from Associate Professor to Professor of Philosophy, with tenure
John Wo Lott from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of  athematics, with tenure
James H. Mcintosh, from Associate Professor to Professor of English Language and Literature, with
tenure
Roberto D. F. Merlin, from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, with tenure
Jeffrey A. Miron, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics with tenure
William R. Paulson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of French, Romance Languages and
Literatures, ith tenure
Vincent L. Pecoraro from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure
Terry E. RobinsonL from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Tobmn A. Siebers, from Associate Professor to Professor of English Language and Literature and
Comparative Literature with tenure
Gary Ro Solon, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with
tenure
Kathryn W. Tosney, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure
James G. Turner, from Associate Professor to Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure
Ctirad Uher from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, with tenure
J. David Vefleman, from William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of Philosophy to Associate Professor of
Philosophy, with tenure
Richard WO Wrangham, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and from
Associate Rrofessor to Professor of Biology, without tenure
Medical School
Norman E Alssi, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure
Eric R. Bates, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Robert H. Beekman III from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, with tenure
C. Richard Boland, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, awarded tenure
Andrew J. Buda, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
David S. Carlson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Anthropology, without tenure
William F. Chandler, from Associate Professor to Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Michael A. DiPietro, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
Thomas E. Elkins, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and GynecologY, awarded tenure
James H. Ellis, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiology, with tenure
David R. Engelke, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure
Andrew P. Feinberg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
David Jo Fink, Associate Professor of Neurology, awarded tenure
Janet R. Gilsdorf, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure
David Ginsburg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and
from Associate Professor to Professor of Human Genetics, without tenure
Thomas WO Glover, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, without tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Human
Genetics, without tenure
Milton D. Gross, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure


-235 -



May Meeting, 1989


Samir M. Hanash, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
with tenure
David J. Knesper, Associate Professor of Psychiatry, awarded tenure
Marina Mata, Associate Professor of Neurology, awarded tenure
Jonathan Maybaum, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure
William J. McCune, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine with tenure
Richard R. Neubig, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure
Keith T. Oldham, rom Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Surgery, with tenure
Thomas D. Palella from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
W. Leslie Rogers, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure
Jonathan M. Rubin, from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiology with tenure
Dennis R. Schaberg, from Associate Professor to Professor of Interna Medicine, with tenure
Paul A. Sieving, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure
Faye S. Silverstein~ from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable
Diseases, with tenure, and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Neurology, without
tenure
Richard H. Simon, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine with tenure
A. Rebecca Snider, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
with tenure
H. Kaz Soong, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, with tenure
Neil A. Swanson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dermatology, with tenure, and from Associate
Professor to Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure
Randall K. Ten Haken, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Radiation Therapy, with
tenure
Craig B. Thompson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure,
and from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, without
tenure
Tetsufuma Ueda, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pharmacology, with tenure, in the
Department of Psychiatry, and from Associate Professor to Professor of Pharmacology, with
tenure, in the Department of Pharmacology
Abraham Van Der Spek, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure
Gerhard E. Wagner, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, and
from Associate Professor to Professor of Physics, without tenure
R. Clinton Webb, from Associate Professor to Professor of Physiology, with tenure
Alan B. Weder, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Gregory T. Wolf, from Associate Professor to Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure
School of Music
Robert L. Culver, from Associate Professor to Professor of Music, with tenure
James Dapogny, from Associate Professor to Professor of Music, with tenure
Alfred W. Lerdahl, from Associate Professor to Professor of Music, with tenure
William N. Rothstein, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, with tenure
Harry W. Sargous, from Associate Professor to Professor of Music with tenure
Martha J. Sheil from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, with tenure
Joanne A. Smith, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, with tenure
School of Nursing
Deborah J. Oakley from Associate Professor to Professor of Nursing, with tenure
Ninfa S. Springer, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing, without tenure
Gordon M. Crippen, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, with tenure
Jennifer B. Dressman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmaceutics, with tenure
Division of Physical Education
Timothy P. White, from Associate Professor to Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure
School of Public Health
_icae. oe ne, From Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Biostatistics, with tenure
Richard P. Garrison, Associate Professor of Industrial Health, awarded tenure
Jill G. Joseph, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure
Jersey Liang, from Associate Professor to Professor of Health Services Management and Policy, with
tenure
UM-Dearbom College of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
M. Michael Akiyama Associate Professor of Psychology, awarded tenure
Bruce S. Elenbogen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with
tenure
Frank Garland, Associate Professor of Chemistry, awarded tenure
Michael A. Lachance, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
-236 -



May Meeting, 1989


Jeffrey J. Prentis, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure
Melita C. Schaum, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English, with tenure
UM-Dearbom School of Engineerin
Sehm S. Awad, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
with tenure
UM-Dearbom School of Management
K. H. Padmanabhan, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Business Administration, with
tenure
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Paul M. Bronstein, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Harry J. D'Souza, from Assistant Professor to Assocate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Kristma D. Hansen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Richard Hill-Rowley, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Resource and Community
Science, with tenure
Margaret F. Kahn, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Garry W. Owens, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music, with tenure
UM-Flint School of Management
Dale A. Davis, Associate Professor of Accounting and Management, awarded tenure
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1989
William J. Paul, Ph.D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Film and Video
Studies
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Marvin Eisenberg, Professor Emeritus of History of Art, reappointed to active status, June 1, 1989
Robert H. Gray, Chair of the Department of Environmental and Industrial Health, Professor of
Environmental and Industrial Health, with tenure, and Director of the Institute of Environmental
and Industrial Health, reappointed as Chair of the Department of Environmental and Industrial
Health, for a three-year term
Eugene A. Imhoff Jr., Ernst & Whinney Professor of Accounting and Professor of Accounting,
reappointed as Ernst & Whinney Professor of Accounting, for a five-year term
E. Han Kim, Fred M. Taylor Professor of Business Administration and Professor of Finance,
reappointed as Fred M. Taylor Professor of Business Administration, for a five-year term
Dietrich H. Vincent, Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering, reappointed to active status, June 11,
1989
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Carolyn 0. Frost, Associate Professor of Information and Library Studies, with tenure, appointed Interim
Associate Dean of the School of Information and Library Studies, July 1, 1989
Tom Hickey from Professor of Health Gerontology, with tenure, to Professor of Health Behavior and
Health Education, with tenure
David E. Kieras, Associate Professor of Technical Communication, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Electrical Engineering, Computer and Communication Science, without tenure, College of
Engineering, appointed Associate Professor of Psychology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Neal M. Krause, from Associate Professor of Health Gerontology, without tenure, to Associate Professor
of Health Behavior and Health Education, without tenure
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Janice B. Lindberg, from Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Assistant Dean for Student
Affairs to ssociate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, and Associate Dean for Student Affairs,
July 1, 1989
Elisabeth A. Pennington, from Assistant Professor of Nursing and Assistant Dean for Undergraduate
Studies to Assistant Professor of Nursing and Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies,
August 1, 1989
-237 -



May Meeting, 1989


The following committee appointments were approved:
Board in Control of Intercolleeiate Athletics
Steven W Roeder, student member, for a one-year term, June 1, 1989 through May 31, 1990, vice Estee
R. Mermelstein, graduated
School of Education Executive Committee
Janet H. Lawrence for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Malcolm A. Lowther,
term exired
Martin L. Maehr, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Burton E. Voss, term
expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Harold W. Neighbors, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1992, vice J. William
Thomas, term expired
Yuzuru J. Takeshita, fo a tee-year term, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1992, vice Stephen A.
Eklund, term expired
School of Social Work Executive Committee
William C Birdsall, for a threeyear term, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1992, vice Howard V.
Brabson, term expired
Sherrie A Kossoudji, for a three-year   t term, Septeber 1, 1989 through August 31, 1992, vice Mary P.
Van Hook, term expired
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee
Mary E. Cox, for three-year term, July 1,1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Kathleen H. Lavoie, term
exlred
Bruce A.Richardson, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Lois M. Rosen, term
expired
Catherine B. Heller Distinguished Professor of Art. The Regents approved the
appointment of John H. Stephenson as the Catherine B. Heller Distinguished
Professor of Art, effective January 1, 1989.
Assistant Dean for Continuing Education, College of Engineering. The Regents
approved the establishment of the position of Assistant Dean for Continuing
Engineering Education in the College of Engineering, effective July 1, 1989.
Preston R. Tisch Professorship of Judaic Studies. The Regents approved the
establishment of the Preston R. Tisch Professorship of Judaic Studies as a named
professorship, effective June 1, 1989.
Leave of Absence Extension. The Regents approved the extension of a leave of
absence for Donald J. Proctor, Professor of History and of Social Sciences at the
UM-Dearborn, from September 1, 1989 to April 30, 1990.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hilarie Faberman, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History of Art, September 1, 1988
Medical School
Ronald 0. Bude, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Xinxin Ding, Ph.D., Lecturer in Biological Chemistry, February 1, 1989
Marianne Whowell, M.D., Lecturer in Anesthesiology, April 17, 1989
-238 -



May Meeting, 1989


School of Nursine
Barbara A. Petersen, Ed.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Nair Rodriguez-Hornedo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics, April 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
George L. Grassmuck, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1,
1989- May 31, 1990
Valery Lunts, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, research leave,
September 1, 1988 - May 31, 1989
Omry Ronen, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, outside teaching
assignment April 1 - May 31 1989
John C. van der Velde, Professor of Physics, with tenure, phased retirement, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1995
Martinus J. Veltman, John D. MacArthur Professor of Physics, duty off campus, April 15 - May 31, 1989
Martinus J. Veltman, John D. MacArthur Professor of Physics, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990
College of Engineerin
CandaceA. Yano, Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Medical School
Sujit K. Pandit. Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, May 1 - October 31, 1989
Michael J. Weish, Associate Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Anesthesiology, without tenure, sabbatical leave, April 1, 1989 - March 31, 1990
School of Nursing
Lois W. Gage, Professor of Nursing, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1991
College of Pharmacy
Nair Rodriguez-Hornedo, Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics, duty off campus, April 1 - July 31, 1989
School of Public Health
Barbara A. Israel, Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, sabbatical
leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Charles E. M. Duilop, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, teaching leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Avraham Balaban, Assistant Professor of Near Eastern Studies
Marvin J. Eisenberg, Professor of History of Art, with tenure
Mary R. Jackman, Professor of Sociology, with tenure
Chung N. Lee Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
Walter R. Meane, Jr., Assistant Professor of Political Science
William E. Porter Professor of Communication, with tenure
Elizabeth M. Soden, Lecturer in English
Charles J. Titus, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure
College of Enineein
ichaelM. R. Williams, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure
Edwin H. Young, Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Metallurgical
Engineering, with tenure
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Christopher Z. Wzacny, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure
School of Nursing
Sandra S. Garr, Assistant Professor of Nursing
Ellen F. Rainier, Lecturer in Nursing


-239 -



May Meeting, 1989


UM-Dearbom Collee of Arts. Sciences, and Letters
Myron Mychajlonka, ssistant Professor of Biology and Microbiology, April 30, 1989
UM-Dearbom School of Management
Herman A. Theeke, AssistantProfessor of Management, April 30, 1989
UM-Flint School of Management
Barnard E. Smith, Professor of Philosophy, with tenure
Retirement Memoirs
Provost Vest submitted 22 retirement memoirs. Regarding the retirement of
Professor Carl D. Johnson, Regent Baker noted his significant contributions as the
developer of the University's Central Campus Master Plan. He said that Professor
Johnson "brought a unity to the University's three major Ann Arbor campuses North
Campus, Central Campus, and the Medical Campus that is both beautiful and
harmonious". Professor Johnson also contributed to the Dearborn and Flint
campuses, and expended considerable effort on the planning for new medical complex.
Regent Baker concluded that "The University benefited greatly from the efforts he put
forth on its behalf' and noted that in addition, "for 35 years Professor Johnson also
taught a class every Saturday in spite of his professional and private duties."
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents voted
unanimously to adopt the following retirement memoirs:
John M. Allen, professor of biology, will retire from active status on May 31,
1989, following 37 years of service.
A native of Springfield, Missouri, Professor Allen received his B.A. degree in
zoology and an honorary Sc.D. degree from Drury College in 1948 and 1970,
respectively. He received his Ph.D. degree in zoology from the University of Chicago
in 1954. Professor Allen joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in
1952. He was appointed assistant professor in 1956. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1960 and professor in 1964.
Professor Allen brought cell biology to Michigan, and ushered in a wave of
change in the faculty that continues to this day. His principle scholarship involved, at
first, application of light microscopy to the localization of enzymes in animal cells. His
cytochemical studies were among the very first to permit an understanding, in specific
chemical terms, of the functions of several intracellular organelles: notably the Golgi
systems (which had long been deemed as an artifact), and the then newly discovered
lysosomes and peroxisomes. He published widely on these subjects and on isozymes --
multiple forms of similar enzymes within the same cell type. In the 1960s, he helped
organize the American Society for Cell Biology and served as president of the
Histochemical Society. He was a frequent contributor to scientific symposia, such as
those of the New York Academy of Sciences. In his department, he served as
principal mentor to predoctoral students and associate mentor for other students. His
generosity extended far beyond his own immediate circle of graduate students to
seemingly all faculty and students who wished to learn the special technology that he
had mastered and developed.
Professor Allen served as chair of the Department of Zoology from 1966-71.
Together with others from the Department of Zoology and the Department of Botany,
he helped set in motion a chain of events that eventually, in the mid-1970s, led to
admimstrative restructuring of the biological sciences within the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts. The strength of the present administration and the strength of
the department owe much to his work in the past.


-240 -



May Meeting, 1989


Every course taught by Professor Allen proved important. His initial venture,
"Introduction to Experimental Cytology", paved the way in the late 1950s for the
establishment -- under his direction -- of Michigan's first modern course in cell
biology. He was the recipient of awards for teaching, research, and other service.
From the 1970s onward, he helped develop several courses in biological sciences that
fill the natural science distribution requirement and develop scientific literacy on the
part of University of Michigan undergraduates who are non-science majors. That
some of these students chose to enter sciences is a tribute to his inspiration.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many
contributions to the University community by naming John M. Allen Professor
Emeritus of Biology.
J. Russell Anderson, Jr., D.D.S., professor of dentistry in the Department of
Prosthodontics, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1989, after a long
association with the University and the School of Dentistry.
A native of Detroit, Dr. Anderson received his B.Sc. degree from the University
of Michigan's College of Pharmacy in 1958, his D.D.S. degree from the School of
Dentistry in 1962, and his M.S. degree in restorative dentistry from the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies in 1964. Dr. Anderson's career as an educator
began in 1962 when he became a clinical instructor in the School of Dentistry's
Department of Crown and Bridge Prosthodontics and the Department of Operative
Dentistry. He was appointed research associate in 1964. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1970 and to professor in 1975. Since 1970, he has also
maintained a half-time private dental practice while on half-time assignment at the
School of Dentistry.
Early in his career, Dr. Anderson's research focused on physical properties of
some zinc oxide-eugenol cements, and a number of articles resulting from this work
appeared in the Journal of Dental Research. Since 1964, he has worked primarily on
the changing occlusal patterns with restorative dentistry. Among other publication
credits are A Manual of Clinical and Laboratory Procedures in Crown and Bridge
Prosthesis, and A Manual of Preclinical Crown and Bridge Prosthodontics, both of which
he co-authored with Dr. George Myers, former chair of the Department of Crown and
Bridge Prosthodontics.
Dr. Anderson has made presentations at meetings of both the International
Association for Dental Research and the Michigan Dental Association Summer
Scientific Session, and has given numerous graduate and postgraduate lectures in
crown and bridge prosthodontics. Within the School of Dentistry, he has served on the
drug committee, the advisory committee to the director of clinics, and on two graduate
thesis committees.
In addition to these activities, Dr. Anderson has been an active member of the
Michigan and the American Dental Associations, the International Association for
Dental Research (IADR), the Dental Materials Group of IADR, the American
Academy of Crown and Bridge Prosthodontics, the Federation of Prosthodontics
Organizations, and the Washtenaw District Dental Society. He served as president
and as secretary of the F. B. Vedder Society of Crown and Bridge Prosthodontics, and
belongs to Phi Kappa Phi professional society. Currently, he is the president of
Omicron Kappa Upsilon honor society.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming J. Russell Anderson, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Chiao-Min Chu, professor of electrical engineering and computer science, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1989.


-241 -



May Meeting, 1989


Professor Chu received his B.E. degree in 1939 from the National Wu-Han
University, China. He earned his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1946 and 1952, respectively. Professor Chu served as an assistant
professor and associate professor at the Detroit Institute of Technology before joining
the University of Michigan faculty in 1955 as an associate research engineer. In 1956,
he received an appointment as an assistant professor; he was promoted to associate
professor in 1958 and professor in 1963.
Professor Chu's early research work was in electromagnetic field theory and
physical electronics. Later on in his career his interest centered on energy conversion
and fields and engineering mathematics. He has been an effective teacher of both
undergraduate and graduate students and he has supervised many doctoral students
during his career. Professor Chu is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers (IEEE), a member of Sigma Xi, Eta Kappa Nu, and Phi Tau
Phi, and is active in publishing papers and attending conferences.
In 1961, Professor Chu assisted Professor William Dow, then chair of the
electrical engineering department, in establishing a program entitled Return-to-Home
Financing of Study Here by Men from Overseas. This later became a successful
University-wide program.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many years of
service to the University community by naming Chiao-Min Chu Professor Emeritus of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
Kendall B. Cox, assistant professor of philosophy in the College of Arts and
Sciences at the University of Michigan-Flint, will retire from active faculty status on
May 31, 1989, after a most productive career as a teacher, advisor, and scholar.
Professor Cox received his B.A. degree from Oberlin College in 1951 and his
A.M. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1953 and 1963,
respectively. He was appointed assistant professor of philosophy in 1966.
Professor Cox has served the college well in teaching, curriculum development,
and service to the University. He specializes in aesthetics, and developed a unique
philosophy of art course which takes an interdisciplinary approach, giving students
experience in art appreciation and art history. He is particularly well known to his
students for his skill as a photographer and his collection of early American motion
picture films.
Professor Cox served as consultant in the development of a course on the Ethics
of Health Care and was a member of the ad hoc committee to develop an art program
on the Flint campus. His service to the University has included the Curriculum
Committee, Academic Standards Committee, and chairing the Admissions and
Scholarships Committee.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Kendall B. Cox Assistant Professor Emeritus of Philosophy.
Leonard K. Eaton, Emil Lorch Professor of Architecture and Urban Planning,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1989.
Professor Eaton received his B.A. degree, cum laude, in 1943 from Williams
College, where he was also Phi Beta Kappa. Following World War II service in the
10th Mountain Division, he pursued graduate work at Harvard University, earning his
M.A. degree in 1948 and his Ph.D. degree in 1951. He joined the faculty at the
University of Michigan in 1950. Since that time, he has built a solid reputation for his
research and publications, which have made important contributions to the
historiography of American architecture. His book, Two Chicago Architects and Their
Clients: Frank Lloyd Wright and Howard Van Doren Shaw, broke important new
ground in the study of patronage in American architecture. Another book, American


-242 -



May Meeting, 1989


Architecture Comes of Age: European Reaction to H. H. Richardson and Louis Sullivan,
documented an important source of American influence on Europe as a key indication
of America's having developed an architecture widely recognized to be the equal of
European models.
Professor Eatons's work led to numerous invitations to lecture at universities in
the United States, Canada and Europe. He has also been the recipient of numerous
grants from the American Council of Learned Societies and the American
Philosophical Society. In 1981, he was named Fulbright Senior Research Fellow to the
Netherlands. In the spring semester of 1985, he held the prestigious Frederick Lindley
Morgan Chair in Architectural History at the University of Louisville.
During his long tenure at the College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
Professor Eaton taught survey courses on the history of architecture and advanced
courses and seminars in architectural history and historic preservation. He also
chaired or served on numerous dissertation committees in doctoral programs in
architecture, history of art, and American culture. In addition, he served on the
College Executive Committee, the University Senate Committee on Research Policy
and the executive board of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.
Professor Eaton has also been a member on the board of directors of the Society of
Architectural Historians and was president of the Michigan (Saarinen) Chapter of the
Society of Architectural Historians.
A noted authority on the life and work of Frank Lloyd Wright, Professor Eaton
served as a consultant to Thomas S. Monaghan, founder and president of Domino's
Pizza, Inc., for developing the nationally acclaimed Domino's Pizza Collection of
Decorative Arts and establishing a symposium on Wright, which has been held
annually since the spring of 1986 in cooperation with the College of Architecture and
Urban Planning.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Leonard
K. Eaton Emil Lorch Professor Emeritus of Architecture and Urban Planning.
Marvin J. Eisenberg, professor of history of art, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1989, after 40 years of service.
A native of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Professor Eisenberg received his B.A.
degree from the University of Pennsylvania in 1943. His studies were interrupted by
service during World War II as a cryptographer in the Army Signal Corps. Professor
Eisenberg received his M.F.A. degree, summa cum laude, from Princeton University in
1949, and his Ph.D. degree, also from Princeton University, in 1954. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1949. He was appointed to assistant
professor in 1953. He was promoted to associate professor in 1957 and professor in
1962.
Professor Eisenberg served as chair of the Department of the History of Art
from 1960-69, director of graduate studies from 1982-85, departmental bibliographer
from 1975-80, departmental language examiner, editor of the Bulletin of the Museums
of Art and Archaeology, and member of the executive committees for the Program in
Comparative Literature from 1977-81 and the Medieval and Renaissance Collegium
from 1975-80. In recognition of his extraordinary performance as a teacher, he
received the Class of 1923 Award for Excellence in Teaching at the University of
Michigan in 1957, and the prestigious Distinguished Teaching of History of Art Award
from the College Art Association of America in 1987.
Among Professor Eisenberg's publications are numerous articles and a
monograph on Lorenzo Monaco. He has been awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship,
the Italian Government Decoration for Service to Italian Culture (Star of Solidarity),
and a term at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton University. His distinction
as a faculty member was acknowledged by his appointment to a collegiate
-243 -



May Meeting, 1989


professorship in 1975-76. A prominent national figure in the field of history of art,
Professor Eisenberg served as president of the College Art Association in 1968 and
1969, was on the advisory board at the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts
at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., and served on the visiting
committees at the Freer Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., and the Department of
Fine Arts and the Fogg Art Museum, Harvard University. In 1988, he was an advisor
for the Program for Art on Film of the Metropolitan Museum of Art/J. Paul Getty
Trust.
To every activity, Professor Eisenberg brought a rare humane wisdom,
sensitivity, and wit which were prized by all with whom he came in contact. His
publications, teaching, lectures, and distinguished service to the University and to the
field of history of art form a legacy which will enrich the environment in which he
served for many decades to come.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar and teacher for his devotion
to learning and dedicated service by naming Marvin J. Eisenberg Professor Emeritus
of History of Art.
Stephen J. Galetti, associate professor of sports management and
communication in the Division of Physical Education, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1989, after a most productive career as a teacher, coach, and
administrator.
Professor Galetti received his B.S. degree in 1953 from Bowling Green State
University and his M.A. degree in 1956 from the University of Michigan. Following
positions as a teacher, coach, and vice-principal in Manhasset, New York, he returned
to the University of Michigan as coordinator of student teaching and director of the
Summer Youth Fitness Program. When the men's and women's physical education
programs merged, he was named coordinator of undergraduate professional
preparation for men and women, and in 1984, became the first chair of the
Department of Sports Management and Communication.
Besides his teaching and administrative duties, Professor Galetti was involved in
many departmental activities, including alumni relations, newsletter editing, student
advising, and curriculum development. He frequently served as departmental liaison
with other University committees and academic units.
Professor Galetti has served as president of the Michigan Association of Health,
Physical Education, Recreation, and Dance and is a recipient of the MAHPERD
Distinguished Service Award. From 1976-85, he chaired the Michigan Council of
Physical Fitness and Health.
In addition to playing college basketball and professional baseball, Professor
Galetti won six National Master's Doubles Paddleball Championships.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physical educator for his dedicated
service by naming Stephen J. Galetti Associate Professor Emeritus of Sports
Management and Communication.
Carl D. Johnson, professor of landscape architecture in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, will retire from active faculty status on May 31,
1989.
After earning his B.S. degree at Michigan State University in 1951, Professor
Johnson began his career as a landscape architect in Dallas, Texas. In 1961, he was a
founding partner of Johnson, Johnson, and Roy of Ann Arbor, a landscape
architecture and urban design firm that soon became known as one of the nation's
premier firms in land use planning, urban design and resource conservation and
management. As design principal in the firm, Professor Johnson has received more


-244 -



May Meeting, 1989


than 100 prestigious awards for his professional work. In 1979, he was named Fellow
of the American Society of Landscape Architects.
Professor Johnson began teaching at the University of Michigan in 1960 as a
visiting lecturer. He was promoted to professor of landscape architecture in 1964. For
29 years, Professor Johnson taught the introductory site planning course required of all
architecture students. Since 1960, every architecture student has benefited from his
remarkable skill as a teacher and his rare sensitivity to people and the physical
environment. Known to students everywhere, he has presented guest lectures at many
architecture and landscape architecture schools throughout this continent.
Since 1960, the University of Michigan has directly benefited from the planning
and design skills of Professor Johnson. Following extensive studies of the North
Campus and the Medical Center, he developed the Central Campus Study of 1963.
This plan summarized many of the basic campus development principles essential to
the orderly, long-range, physical growth of a complex academic community, and it
continues to serve as the basis for physical development of the University.
Professor Johnson is internationally known as a talented landscape architect.
His teaching skills and extensive professional experience have been invaluable to the
University.
The Regents happily salute this exemplary member of the University community
by naming Carl D. Johnson Professor Emeritus of Landscape Architecture.
William Kerr, professor of nuclear engineering and director of the Michigan
Memorial Phoenix Project in the College of Engineering, and director of the Office of
Energy Research, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1989.
Professor Kerr received his B.S. degree in 1942 and his M.S. degree in 1947,
both from the University of Tennessee. After earning the M.S. degree, he served as a
member of the faculty at the University of Tennessee, where he held appointments as
instructor and assistant professor. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
instructor in 1948. He received his Ph.D. degree in 1953 from the University of
Michigan, and was appointed assistant professor of electrical engineering. In 1956,
Professor Kerr was promoted to associate professor of electrical engineering; he was
named associate professor of nuclear engineering in 1957. He was promoted to
professor in the newly formed Department of Nuclear Engineering in 1958, and served
a key role in establishing its initial reputation as one of the strongest such departments
in the country.
In 1961, Professor Kerr was appointed chair of the Department of Nuclear
Engineering, a position he held until 1974. These thirteen years were some of the
most critical years of the department's early development. During the period from
1961 to his retirement, Professor Kerr also served as director of the Michigan
Memorial Phoenix Project, supervising the operation of the Ford Nuclear Reactor and
associated radiation laboratory. He developed a strong national reputation as an
expert in nuclear reactor safety and organized and taught a popular course in the
department on the topic. Since 1972, Professor Kerr has served on the Advisory
Committee on Reactor Safeguards for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. He also
completed two separate terms as chair of this influential group of safety consultants.
Professor Kerr has received a number of national awards, including the Arthur
Holly Compton Award of the American Nuclear Society and the Meritorious Service
Award of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. He is a fellow of both the American
Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Nuclear Society.
Professor Kerr's service at the University of Michigan has included terms as a member
of the Senate Assembly, chair of SACUA, and director of the Office of Energy
Research.


-245 -



May Meeting, 1989


The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many years of
outstanding service to the University community by naming William Kerr Professor
Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Director Emeritus of the Michigan Memorial
Phoenix Project.
Chung Nim Lee, associate professor of mathematics, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1989.
Professor Lee was born in Siniju, Pyungbook-Do, Korea. He received his B.A.
degree from Seoul National University in 1954. He came to the United States in 1956
and studied at the University of Virginia, where he received his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees in 1957 and 1959, respectively.
Professor Lee came to the University of Michigan in 1959 as a research
associate with a postdoctoral fellowship from the Office of Naval Research. He was
an instructor during 1960-61 and held a visiting assistant professorship at the
University of Western Ontario from 1961-64. He returned to the University of
Michigan in 1964 as an assistant professor. He was promoted to associate professor in
1968.
Professor Lee's research ranged over a wide area of topology and fields related
to topology. Both his lectures and his important papers were noted for their prescient
qualities. Several of his papers, notably "Equivariant Homology Theories" and "On the
Groups JO(G)," constituted the beginnings of what later became highly developed
theories. More recently, his research interests have turned to automata and computer
vision. In a series of papers, he has helped to clarify the role of topology in computer
vision.
In Ann Arbor, Professor Lee was very active in the local Korean community.
He has now returned to his native Korea, where he has been named chair of the
mathematics department of Pohang Institute of Technology, a new university in Korea
modeled after the California Institute of Technology.
The Regents now salute this mathematician and educator for his dedicated
service by naming Chung Nim Lee Associate Professor Emeritus of Mathematics.
Alan B. Macnee, professor of electrical engineering and computer science, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1989.
Professor Macnee attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he
received his S.B. and S.M. degrees in 1943 and his Sc.D. degree in 1948. From
1943-49, Professor Macnee served as a staff member in the receiver group at the MIT
Radiation Laboratory, where he performed research on high-speed electronic
computation. From 1949-50, he worked on the development of an electronic
differential analyzer at the Chalmers Institute of Technology in Gothenburg, Sweden.
Professor Macnee joined the University of Michigan as an assistant professor in 1950.
He was promoted to associate professor in 1951 and professor in 1956.
Professor Macnee arrived at the University of Michigan at a time when the
Department of Electrical Engineering recognized the necessity of updating its
program in network synthesis, and he was a key figure in the department's curriculum
planning, financial aid, and graduate affairs programs. He has always entered fully
and enthusiastically into activities in the department and the college and has served as
a member of SACUA, the Academic Affairs Advisory Committee, the Research
Policies Committee, and the College Executive Committee.
Professor Macnee has received many honors during his academic career. In
1946 he was awarded the George Eastman Fellowship in Electrical Engineering, the
Browder J. Thompson Memorial Prize in 1951, and the A.S.E.E. Western Electric
Award in 1968 for excellence in teaching. He was also elected a fellow of the Institute
of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).


-246 -



May Meeting, 1989


Professor Macnee is an effective teacher and excellent researcher, who is highly
regarded by his students and colleagues. His competence, experience, patience, and
wise counsel have contributed to his reputation as an outstanding professor. He has
had a distinguished career in teaching and research, and his contributions to the
department and to the college will be greatly missed.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his outstanding service
to the University community by naming Alan B. Macnee Professor Emeritus of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science.
William E. Porter, professor of communication, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1989, after 26 years of service.
A native of Kansas, Professor Porter earned his B.A. degree in English at the
University of Kansas in 1939, his M.A. degree in dramatic arts/speech at the
University of Alabama in 1940, and did doctoral work at the State University of Iowa,
1940-42. Professor Porter's teaching career began in 1944 when he joined the faculty
of the State University of Iowa as a lecturer, rising to the rank of professor of
journalism. In 1962 he joined the University of Michigan, also with the rank of
professor of journalism.
At the University of Michigan, Professor Porter established a national
reputation as a research scholar whose work focused on the Italian press and on the
perceived assault on the media during the Nixon administration and Watergate. In
1963-64, he served as national president of the Association for Education in
Journalism, now the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass
Communication (AEJMC). Professor Porter served as chair of both the Department
of Journalism and the Department of Communication. He was also a member of the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee. In 1952-53 he was
a Fulbright lecturer at the University of Rome.
Professor Porter taught very popular courses at the University in mass media
writing, the foreign press, and in media and politics. His teaching, scholarship and
administrative leadership inspired both his students and his colleagues.
Between 1943 and 1950 Porter published more than 50 articles and short stories
as a free-lance writer for magazines, such as The Saturday Evening Post, Colliers,
Cosmopolitan, and Argosy, among others. A novel, The Lawbringers, was published by
Appleton-Century in 1955.
The Regents now salute this distinguished journalism educator and writer for his
dedicated service by naming William E. Porter Professor Emeritus of Communication.
Barnard E. Smith, professor of management at the University of MichiganFlint, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1989.
Professor Smith received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in mechanical engineering
from the University of Minnesota in 1949 and 1950, respectively. He received his
Ph.D. degree in industrial engineering (operations research) from Stanford University
in 1961. Between 1950 and 1980, he served as a faculty member at the Illinois
Institute of Technology, Dartmouth College, the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, Stanford University, Oregon State College, and the University of North
Dakota, and as a Visiting Professor at the University of Illinois Champaign-Urbana
and the Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta. Under the sponsorship of O.E.D.,
he assisted the University of Patras (Greece) in its establishment of a business
program in 1974. Professor Smith joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan-Flint in 1980 as professor of management and director of the then new
M.B.A. Program.
Professor Smith has published more than 30 papers, some of which have been
frequently cited in the literature. His "Cross Cultural Attitudes Among Managers: A


-247 -



May Meeting, 1989


Case Study" is used as one of the foundations for other cross cultural studies. His
"Multi-Item Productions Planning: An Extension of HMMS Rules" makes two major
contributions which are often cited in operations planning and control textbooks and
studies.
An exceptional teacher, Professor Smith is considered easy to work with, and
students seek and listen to his advice and counsel. He has made an outstanding
contribution to area industry through development and delivery of technical materials
on statistical process control and design of experiments.
In addition to his scholarly research and teaching activities, Professor Smith has
gained considerable visibility in the Flint business community through participation in
professional organizations and as a business consultant. He has played a leadership
role in faculty governance on the University of Michigan-Flint campus. He is listed in
American Men of Science and in Who's Who in America. For his numerous
contributions to teaching, research, and service activities, Professor Smith was
appointed the David M. French Distinguished Professor for 1982-84.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his more than 35
years in higher education and nine years of dedicated service to the University of
Michigan-Flint campus by naming Barnard E. Smith Professor Emeritus of
Management.
Louis J. Stout, professor of music, will retire from active faculty status on May
31, 1989.
Professor Stout was born in Hallsport, New York. He received his B.Mus.
degree from Ithaca College in 1951. He had interrupted his studies at Ithaca to
perform professionally as solo hornist in the New Orleans Philharmonic (1947-49) and
in New York City as solo hornist in the Sigmund Romberg Orchestra and the Radio
City Music Hall Orchestra (1949-50). After receiving his degree at Ithaca, Professor
Stout went to Missouri as solo hornist in the Kansas City Philharmonic (1951-55)
where he also taught at the Kansas City Conservatory (1951-54). He later joined the
great Chicago Symphony Orchestra, then conducted by Fritz Reiner (1955-60), and
taught at the Chicago School of Music (1957-60). Professor Stout began his career at
the University of Michigan in 1960 as a lecturer. He was promoted to associate
professor in 1962 and professor in 1967. During his years at the University, he
remained active as a horn performer with campus groups, including the faculty
Woodwind Quintet, and with regional orchestras, including those of Ann Arbor, Flint,
Jackson, Plymouth, and Toledo.
Professor Stout has long been an utterly dedicated teacher whose former
students in college teaching posts and in symphony orchestras from coast to coast
attest to his gifts and inspiration as a pedagogue and to his devotion to the best in
music performance. During his years on the faculty, it was far from unheard of that
Professor Stout, having been contacted by a high school student interested in applying
to be a horn major in the School of Music, might spend fifteen hours with a potential
applicant during a week end, coaching the student's playing, discussing music, and
getting acquainted. The man simply lives and breathes horn playing.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Louis J.
Stout Professor Emeritus of Music.
Charles J. Titus, professor of mathematics, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1989.
Professor Titus was born in Mount Clemens, Michigan. He received his B.S.
degree from the University of Detroit in 1944, his Sc.M. degree from Brown University
in 1945, and his Ph.D. degree in mathematics from Syracuse University in 1948. On
completion of his degree in 1948 he taught at Syracuse for one year. He joined the


-248 -



May Meeting, 1989


faculty of the University of Michigan as an instructor in 1949. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1954, associate professor in 1960, and professor in 1964.
In the early decades of Professor Titus' career, his work centered on topological
versions of the Riemann Mapping Theorem. In the late sixties he proved a famous
conjecture on Caratheodary: that every closed, convex analytic sphere-like surface has
at least two umbilics (i.e., singularities of the curvature). Later he worked successfully
on problems in the singularity theory of sense-preserving and area-preserving maps, in
perturbation theory of degenerate critical points and in mathematical economics. His
work has always been characterized by insightful geometric intention into analytic
problems. His work was especially well received in Europe, and he made extended
visits to universities in Copenhagen, Bonn, Aarhus, Helsinki, Strasbourg, and the
Institut des Hautes Etudes Scientifiques. He also spent the academic years 1958-59 at
the University of California, Berkeley, and 1959-60 at the Institute for Advanced
Study.
Professor Titus has always been an avid sailor and traveller. In the mid-1950s
he began a collaboration with Craig Schensted that led to the invention of a number of
challenging and popular games, including Mudcrack Y and Kaliko. Kaliko was named
one of the 100 best games by Games Magazine and one of the ten best board games by
Omni Magazine.
The Regents now salute this mathematician and teacher for his dedicated
service by naming Charles J. Titus Professor Emeritus of Mathematics.
Dietrich H. Vincent, professor of nuclear engineering, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 1989.
Professor Vincent received his formal education in the Federal Republic of
Germany, earning a doctoral degree in physics from the University of Goettingen in
1956. He held a position as scientific assistant in the Isotope Laboratory for Medical
Research, at the Max-Planck Institute in Goettingen from 1951-58. In 1958, he
emigrated to the United States to become resident research associate at the Argonne
National Laboratory. In 1960, he joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as
associate professor of nuclear engineering; he was promoted to professor in 1964.
Professor Vincent quickly established a reputation as an extremely effective
teacher, both at the undergraduate and graduate levels. He was responsible for
organizing a laboratory course in the analytical uses of nuclear radiation that was the
first of its kind on any campus in this country. The research work carried out by
Professor Vincent has centered on the use of radiation in the study of materials
properties. This research work has led to a strong collaboration with the National
Bureau of Standards.
Professor Vincent spent the 1968-69 academic year in Taiwan, Republic of
China, serving as an international atomic energy agency expert and lecturer. He spent
his sabbatical year, 1982-83, at the National Bureau of Standards, Center for
Analytical Chemistry.
In addition to his teaching and research, Professor Vincent has carried a major
responsibility in student counseling, serving as undergraduate program advisor and
pre-enrollment counselor for virtually all incoming engineering students for many
years. His personal concern for the welfare of students has made him an outstanding
member of the college faculty.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his exemplary service by
naming Dietrich H. Vincent Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering.
Martin R. Warshaw, professor of marketing in the School of Business
Administration, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1989.
Professor Warshaw received his A.B. degree from Columbia University in 1947


-249 -



May Meeting, 1989


and his M.B.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1957 and 1960,
respectively. He was first appointed as an instructor in marketing in the School of
Business Administration in 1957, followed by an appointment as assistant professor of
marketing upon completion of his doctoral work. He subsequently received a
promotion to associate professor in 1964 and professor in 1967.
An important contributor to his field, Professor Warshaw pioneered in early
applications of mathematics to marketing. Long before mathematical methods
became standard, he was applying them to the selection of advertising media
schedules, basing his work on linear programming models. Professor Warshaw also
pioneered University interest in the logistics of distribution channels. He taught one
of only a few University courses in logistics management, and even set up a
computer-based market simulation around which he built his course.
Professor Warshaw was also an important contributor to the School of Business
Administration. During his tenure, he served as chairman of the marketing
department for three terms, totaling nine years. In addition, he served as a member of
one of the school's most important committees: the Ad Hoc Committee to Review the
M.B.A. Program. This committee, appointed in the mid-sixties, substantially
redirected the M.B.A. Program, making it competitive for the seventies and beyond.
Professor Warshaw also held appointments on several other key school committees
during his career. In addition, he was primarily responsible for obtaining a long-term
grant from the Leo Burnett Foundation. The grant, which is shared with the
Department of Communications, has financed scores of special studies by
undergraduate and graduate students.
Always viewed as an excellent and caring teacher and colleague, Professor
Warshaw will be greatly missed. His many friends and colleagues wish him well in his
retirement.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Martin R.
Warshaw Professor Emeritus of Marketing.
Joseph J. Wehrer, professor of architecture, will retire from active faculty status
on May 31, 1989.
Professor Wehrer received his B.S.M.E. degree from the Stevens Institute of
Technology in 1945 and his B.Arch. degree from the University of Michigan in 1954.
He joined the faculty of the College of Architecture and Design in 1956. Professor
Wehrer's professional career was influenced by two important national figures in
architecture. After graduation, he first worked for R. Buckminster Fuller, designer,
philosopher, and futurist, and later worked in the office of Eero Saarinen and
Associates. In recent years, his work has emphasized the design of institutional
environments, and he has become well known for his work on hospitals and facilities
that serve the special needs of those with limited physical capabilities. He has won a
number of national and international competitions, including the Toronto City Hall
and Square in 1958 and the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial in 1959.
Professor Wehrer's breadth of interests and superior qualifications have marked
him as one of the most outstanding members of the faculty. His imaginative manner
of presenting material to his students created a response that led to efforts far beyond
their usual performance. He has been truly a brilliant and gifted teacher in the eyes of
both his students and colleagues. In addition, he has served on the College Executive
Committee, the College Deanship Committee, Exhibition Committee and the
Educational Program Committee.
As a research scientist, Professor Wehrer has specialized in building
programming and architectural research relating to health care. In 1975, he and
Professor Colin Clipson were awarded highest honors in a national competition
sponsored by Progressive Architecture Magazine. They won a "first award" in


-250 -



May Meeting, 1989


recognition of their book, Planning for Cardiac Care: A Guide to the Planning and
Design of Cardiac Care Facilities. Professor Wehrer has also received recognition for
research on architecture of the theatre and performing arts.
Professor Wehrer's work was punctuated with experimental and novel ideas.
Through his work both outside and within the University, he strove to bring together
many diverse fields of thought. His teaching skills and extensive professional
experience have been invaluable to the University.
The Regents happily salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Joseph
J. Wehrer Professor Emeritus of Architecture.
Edgar F. Westrum, Jr., professor of chemistry, will retire from active faculty
status on May 31, 1989, after a career of 43 years of teaching and research at the
University of Michigan.
Born in Albert Lea, Minnesota, Professor Westrum received his B.Chem.
degree from the University of Minnesota in 1940 and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of California at Berkeley in 1944. He was a postdoctoral fellow at Berkeley
and at the University of Chicago before joining the University of Michigan as an
assistant professor in 1946. He was promoted to associate professor in 1950 and
professor in 1958.
Professor Westrum is first and foremost a superb scientist. In the field of
experimental chemical thermodynamics, largely low temperature calorimetry, he has
few peers. His more than 400 published papers provide a record of an exceedingly
fine experimentalist who has directed his efforts towards answering important
scientific questions. He has taken a leading role in international scientific
organizations IUPAC (International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry) and
particularly in ICSU's (International Council of Scientific Unions) CODATA
(Committee on Data for Science and Technology); he has served continuously on
CODATA since its inception in 1971 and was its secretary-general for nine years. This
committee seeks to improve the management and accessibility of reliable scientific
data, one of the most pressing scientific issues of our day. One measure of the
intensity of his involvement is the more than 100 trips to Europe he made in the 1970s
to promote the work of CODATA.
A dedicated editor of journals and monographs, in 1960 Professor Westrum
co-founded the Bulletin of Chemical Thermodynamics. He has been involved in
co-editorial roles since its inception and he assumed the editorship for the 1966-77
decade, building its annual issues from a few pages to more than 600 pages. In 1969,
Professor Westrum and Professor Max McGlashan launched the prestigious Journal of
Chemical Thermodynamics published by Academic Press. He shared the editorship
with Professor McGlashan during its eight formative years, by the end of which it had
grown to its present page size and 12 issues per year.
Although Professor Westrum's career has had immense impact on the
international scientific community, he has also participated fully in the teaching
program of the chemistry department and carried his share of other departmental
responsibilities. His teaching duties have included beginning courses in general
chemistry, intermediate level courses in physical chemistry, beginning graduate
courses, and specialty research courses in thermodynamics.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar for his achievements and
dedicated service by naming Edgar F. Westrum, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Chemistry.
Louis W. Wolf, associate professor of mechanical engineering at the University
of Michigan-Dearborn, will retire from active faculty status on June 30, 1989, after
many years of faithful and dedicated service.
Professor Wolf received his B.S. degree in mechanical engineering and


-251 -



May Meeting, 1989


mathematics in 1952 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in instrumentation engineering
and engineering mechanics in 1955 and 1963, respectively, from the University of
Michigan. Prior to joining the faculty at UM-Dearborn, he worked as a senior
engineer for Bendix Corporation, Systems Division from 1961-62 and as an instructor
in the College of Engineering at the Ann Arbor campus from 1955-60.
In 1962, Professor Wolf joined the faculty at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn campus as a lecturer in mechanical engineering. He was
appointed assistant professor in 1963. He was promoted to associate professor of
mechanical engineering in 1965.
Professor Wolf was instrumental in introducing computer-integrated education
in mechanical engineering long before microcomputer-based education became a
trend in engineering education. He has served on several computer committees, both
within the College of Engineering and at the campus level.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Louis W.
Wolf Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering.
Christopher Z. Wzacny, associate professor of architecture in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, will retire from active faculty status on May 31,
1989.
Born in Warsaw, Poland, Professor Wzacny and his family escaped from Poland
through Germany following World War II. He came to the United States to study,
received his B. Arch. Eng. degree from the University of Detroit in 1961, and his
Master of Urban Planning degree from Wayne State University in 1963. In 1968, he
established his practice in architecture and urban planning in Birmingham, Michigan.
His professional work has been recognized with several major design awards.
Professor Wzacny joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1968 as a
lecturer. He was appointed assistant professor in 1969 and promoted to associate
professor in 1974. Professor Wzacny bridged the gap between professional practice
and teaching, thereby providing a vital input to the professional programs in
architecture and urban planning. He was a principal instructor in urban design studio
courses in architecture. Always careful in his choice of student design problems that
they represent the "real world," Professor Wzacny has been innovative in his methods
of instruction, with the intention of providing the student an experience as realistic and
professional as possible.
The Regents salute this faculty member by naming Christopher Z. Wzacny
Associate Professor Emeritus of Architecture.
Edwin H. Young, professor of chemical engineering and professor of
metallurgical engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1989.
Born in Detroit, Professor Young received his B.S. degree in chemical
engineering from the University of Detroit in 1942. After serving in the United States
Navy, he entered the University of Michigan, where he received his M.S. degree in
chemical engineering in 1949 and his M.S. degree in metallurgical engineering in 1952.
Professor Young joined the University of Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1947.
He was appointed assistant professor in 1952, associate professor in 1956, and
professor in 1959.
With his broad expertise in both metallurgy and chemical engineering, Professor
Young's services were often sought as an expert witness in cases of metal failure,
explosions, and pipeline eruptions. A book that he co-authored on standards,
metallurgy and design methods became a respected textbook on this subject.
The success of a Michigan corporation, Wolverine Tube, is directly related to
Professor Young's research in process heat transfer. For this research, Professor
Young was awarded the Donald Q. Kern Award by the American Institute of


-252 -



May Meeting, 1989


Chemical Engineers. He has also received the National Society of Professional
Engineers Award, the AlChE Career Achievement Award, and other significant
honors for the significant achievements that have exemplified his career.
Professor Young dedicated many years to the advancement of engineering as an
honored and respected profession. He served as president of the Michigan Society of
Professional Engineers, president of the National Society of Professional Engineers,
and for 12 years as chair of the Michigan Board of Registration for Architects and
Engineers.
The personal and professional successes of his students represent the most
lasting and significant tribute to Professor Young. With wisdom and understanding,
he provided guidance and encouragement to many young men and women. The
impact he made on these young engineers and on the development of ethics and
strength of character will continue to reflect his talents as a teacher, counselor,
researcher, and role model.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many years of
service to the University community by naming Edwin H. Young Professor Emeritus
of Chemical Engineering and Professor Emeritus of Metallurgical Engineering.
Memorials
The Regents unanimously adopted the following memorial:
The Regents of the University acknowledge with profound sadness the death on
May 2, 1989, of Earl J. Dinger, D.D.S., associate professor of dentistry.
Born on December 25, 1921, in Worcester, Massachusetts, Dr. Dinger earned
his B.A. degree from Albion College in 1945, his D.D.S. degree from the University of
Michigan School of Dentistry in 1948, and his M.S. degree in prosthetic dentistry from
the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies in 1951. Dr. Dinger was a
member of Delta Sigma Phi at Albion College and belonged to Xi Psi Phi dental
fraternity while in dental school. He began his teaching career in 1949 as an instructor
in the Department of Partial Denture at the University of Michigan's School of
Dentistry, and was promoted to assistant professor in 1955, and associate professor in
1968.
In addition to his own field of partial denture prosthetics, he had a strong
background in operative dentistry, crown and bridge prosthesis, and complete denture
prosthesis, and regularly served as a consultant in these departments in the School of
Dentistry. He also maintained a part-time private practice.
Dr. Dinger was the co-author of articles published in professional journals,
primarily regarding dental amalgams and gold partial denture castings. Additionally,
he co-authored the manual Laboratory Procedure Guide for Partial Denture Prosthesis.
A life member of both the American and Michigan Dental Associations, Dr.
Dinger also belonged to the American Prosthodontic Society, the Washtenaw District
Dental Society (for which he served a one-year term as president), and Omicron
Kappa Upsilon (dentistry honor society).
Dr. Dinger was a dedicated teacher and an excellent clinician. During his
teaching career, he played a significant role in the education of many Michigan
dentists. As we mourn his loss, our condolences go to his wife, Laura; to his daughters,
Candace Hall and Merri Kokinakes; and to his son, Mark.
Degrees
On the recommendation of the proper authorities in each case, the Regents
approved changes to previously approved degree lists. A recommendation to rescind


-253 -



May Meeting, 1989


Wilson Walter Crook III from the April 30, 1977 degree list was withdrawn, as the
Regents had previously approved rescinding Mr. Crook's M.S. degree.
Six-Month Report on University Audits
Carl Smith, Director of University Audits, presented the Six-Month Report on
University Audits. In response to a question from Regent Roach, Mr. Smith stated
that he had had sufficient time and staff to provide adequate audit coverage of the
University. He also emphasized the importance of the Audit Department's
involvement in the development of automated information systems, and that this is a
critical part of the audit function.
Regent Power asked that the Regents be given some additional information
about unbilled accounts receivable at University Hospitals.
Special Maintenance Projects for 1988-89, UM-Flint
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents gave
unanimous approval to proceed with special maintenance projects funded by state
appropriation in the amount of $521,000 on the University of Michigan-Flint campus.
UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project
Regent Varner moved that the Regents approve the final project budget and
authorize award of the construction contract to the low bidder, A. Z. Shmina & Sons,
for the UM-Dearborn General Campus Renovation Project. The motion was
seconded by Regent Brown and approved unanimously.
Intercollegiate Athletics Sports Service Building
Because bids could not be received in time for the May meeting, Vice President
Womack requested authority to award the contract to the low bidder, provided the
bids are within the construction component of the $12 million budget previously
approved. Speaking on behalf of Vice President Womack, University Controller
Chandler Matthews stated that he was satisfied that the Athletic Department would
receive sufficient new pledges, gifts and donated services, which combined with other
available athletics resources would provide adequate funding for the project. If the
required funds are not available, the Athletic Department is prepared to change the
scope of the project by deleting certain components which would reduce the $12
million budget by $1.5 million.
To date, $9 million has been raised through fundraising efforts; $6.5 million of
that is in pledges. The gap between the cash on hand and the amount needed would
be handled by borrowing; details of that program will be brought to the Board at the
June meeting. The Athletic Department is prepared to handle the debt service that
will be required; the most that would have to be borrowed would be $9 million over a
relatively short period of time.
Regent Nielsen moved that the Regents authorize awarding the construction
contract to the low bidder as described in the action request; Regent Varner seconded
the motion.
Regent Brown noted the amount of the proposed budget set aside for the


-254 -



May Meeting, 1989


kitchen, and repeated his understanding that there would be no training table in the
new facility. Associate Athletic Director Jack Weidenbach said that this
understanding is correct.
Regent Power said that he intended to move to table the motion for one day,
pending receipt of further details, including the chronology of events surrounding the
project. Regent Baker pointed out that the chronology had been discussed, and that
the action taken last month set the stage for the current motion. Following further
discussion, it was decided to recess the meeting for Public Comments and to take up
the current motion when the meeting reconvened the following morning.
Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Jeff Fowler, student at UM-Dearborn, about lack of student housing on
UM-Dearborn campus; John Coleman, Aaron Williams, and Rose Karadsheh,
students and members of MSA, about Michigan Student Assembly financial problems.
Michigan Student Assembly Finances. As result of the comments regarding the
Michigan Student Assembly financial situation, the Regents asked to have the 1988
audit of MSA presented at the next month's meeting.
Friday, May 19, 1989
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Nielsen, Power, Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters.
Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary Kennedy and Vice Presidents Cosovich,
Johnson, and Wilson were also present, as was Chancellors Jones. Regent Brown and
Chancellor Wilson were absent. Controller Chandler Matthews attended the meeting
in place of Vice President Womack, who was also absent.
Michigan Student Assembly Finances
President Duderstadt announced that the Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer and the Office of University Audits, in cooperation with the office of the Vice
President for Student Services, would prepare a report for the June meeting about the
allegations made regarding the MSA's financial status.
Intercollegiate Athletics Sports Service Building
President Duderstadt noted that a motion regarding this request had been made
and seconded the previous day. Regent Power stated that he had read the chronology
of events surrounding this project, that the history and nature of it are complex, and
that it would be difficult for the Regents to say very much about it at this point. He
continued that there had been criticism of the aesthetics and design of the building,
and that he understood there were plans underway to rectify this. Finally, Regent
Power stated that he understood that the development of the architectural plan took
place in a "most unusual" procedural environment. He was hopeful that in the future
"the Regents and the management of the institution would not be confronted with a
fait accompli and that the Athletic Department... would work closely and in uniform
managerial equipoise with the institution as a whole."


-255 -



May Meeting, 1989


President Duderstadt responded that steps have been taken so that this unusual
sequence of events does not occur again.
The vote was taken and the motion to authorize awarding the construction
contract to the low bidder passed unanimously.
University Council/ Regents' Bylaw 7.02
President Duderstadt invited Professor Jens Zorn and student Cory Dolgon to
the table to discuss the work of the University Council up to this point. Professor
Zorn reviewed what the University Council had accomplished from its first meeting in
February of 1989 until the present. He pointed out the proposed changes in Bylaw
7.02 and said that if the Regents approved extending the deadline for completion of
the Council's work, the final proposal would be ready for the Regents' consideration in
November of 1989.
SACUA and Senate Assembly Resolution on the University Council. President
Duderstadt noted that the current Bylaw 7.02 would expire at the end of May, 1989,
unless the Regents amended their previous action. He introduced Professor Gayl
Ness, chair of SACUA, who pointed out the SACUA and Senate Assembly resolution
in the additional agenda "support[ing] and encourag[ing] the current efforts of the
University Council," and urging the Regents to extend Bylaw 7.02 "at least until their
current work has been completed." Professor Ness praised the efforts of Professor
Zorn and Professor Beth Reed for their success in helping the Council get to its
current point.
In response to a question from Regent Baker about the proposed revisions to
Bylaw 7.02 and the 1988 Civil Liberties Board recommendations on freedom of speech
and artistic expression, President Duderstadt said that these are part of a broader
package of rights and responsibilities of members of the University community.
Regent Baker responded that he feels that Bylaw 7.02 abrogates the Regents' powers
to take actions in a number of areas.
Regent Roach noted that he was pleased at the progress that had been made,
and moved to extend the sunset date for Bylaw 7.02 to December 31, 1989. Regent
Smith seconded the motion.
Regent Roach went on to point out certain specific proposed revisions of Bylaw
7.02 in the preliminary draft that are unacceptable. For example, requiring as part of
a quorum at least one representative from each constituency group and requiring
approval of actions by a supermajority of each constituency group, are undemocratic.
Regent Nielsen noted that there seemed to be a perception among the students
that the Regents would not be able to act on matters unless there was a
recommendation that they so act from the University Council. This was contrary to his
understanding of how things work at the University, and he cautioned that "if this
document comes back that way, it's not going to go anywhere".
Regent Roach responded that the Regents always have the option of repealing
the bylaw in the event that it didn't work as hoped. He pointed out that indeed, the
thrust of the bylaw is that for the purpose of adopting rules and regulations governing
conduct, the Regents are going to let the Council be the originating body.


-256 -



May Meeting, 1989


Regent Roach pointed out other specific problems with certain of the proposed
Bylaw revisions, with the purpose of informing the Council members the reactions
they could anticipate on the part of the Regents at the end of the proposed sunset
date. Regent Power observed that the proposition that rules that affect people ought
to be made by them does not necessarily entail "constituency-based veto power", and
that this notion ought not to be a part of the final proposal.
Regent Baker observed that he feels that the University ought to be an "open,
freewheeling, hard-hitting place where people discuss anything and everything and all
of its ramifications." He noted the goal should be to have a society where people
respect one another and in which arguments stand and fall on their merits, and not on
who feels injured by what someone has said. He repeated his question as to why the
bylaw was ever passed in the first place.
Regent Varner said that she shared the concerns that have been expressed, but
that she was especially troubled by the deletion in section #7 of the Regents' authority
to "exercise their constitutional responsibility" in the event that the Council does not
agree on a proposed regulation.
President Duderstadt summarized the discussion by saying that the Council has
made a good faith effort and has demonstrated a lot of progress, so therefore he felt it
appropriate to extend the sunset date. However, the Board has made clear its feelings
that Bylaw 7.02 is badly flawed, and as it stands, is unworkable and unwise. The
committee should thus return to the Board with a new process, not simply a
modification of the old process.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, President Duderstadt said that
the discrimination and discriminatory harassment policies are already in force. The
current motion would extend Bylaw 7.02 in its present form with a December 31
sunset; it would then expire unless the University Council could return to the Board
with a process acceptable to the Board to replace it. At the same time, the
recommendations from the Council on the implementation of the 1988 Civil Liberties
Board statement on freedom of speech and artistic expression will move through the
various constituency groups and come before the Board for separate consideration.
Regent Baker said his understanding was that passage of this policy would
assure relief for speakers who come to campus and are aggrieved. President
Duderstadt said that that issue has been addressed, but that the sanctions against
members of the University community who violate the policy are now under
development by the University Council.
Virginia Nordby explained that the discriminatory harassment policy had been
adopted, with sanctions, by administrative action of the president under the authority
of Bylaw 2.01. The freedom of speech guidelines were presented as a revision of
previous statement on freedom of speech that had been adopted by the Regents, and
that the sanctions were to be developed as President Duderstadt described.
President Duderstadt observed that President Fleming's idea was to use the
Civil Liberties Board statement as a test case for the University Council to develop the
sanction components. If the University Council is not successful in this, the sanctions
would be proposed by the administration. The idea was to develop a process by which
the University Council could work.


-257 -



May Meeting, 1989


Following further discussion, President Duderstadt said that by November the
Regents should have some sense of whether or not the Council's work is proceeding as
hoped. If it isn't, the administration would then proceed to develop alternative
recommendations.
Regent Power pointed out that perhaps the Regents should look at the more
general policy issues of whether there should be separate policies, procedures, and
sanctions for each different type of offense rather than focusing on the broad area of
rules of conduct that define the basis of behavior and that have attached to them
certain sanctions.
Regent Smith observed that members of the University Council have worked in
good faith up to this point, and have made progress. Therefore, she strongly
supported Regent Roach's motion to extend the sunset deadline.
Regent Power then raised the point that disturbances have occurred on other
state university campuses recently, and asked for there to be a discussion at the next
meeting of what policies, rules, and sanctions are available in case similar incidents
were to occur at the University of Michigan. President Duderstadt said that the
administration would provide a comparison of the University's situation with that on
other campuses as background information.
Following further discussion, the vote was taken on the motion to extend the
sunset on Bylaw 7.02 to December 31, 1989. The motion carried by a vote of six to
one. Regent Baker stated that he was opposed to the motion for the reasons he had
previously stated.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 1990
On a motion by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Smith, the Regents
unanimously approved the following schedule of meetings for the 1990 calendar year:
January 18-19                    July 19-20
February 15-16                   August no meeting
March 22*-23                     September 20-21
April 19-20                      October 18**-19
May 17-18                        November 15-16
June 21-22                       December 20-21
*  Held at UM-Dearborn
*  Held at UM-Flint
Spring Commencement exercises in 1990 will be held on Saturday, May 5.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will be held on June 22 and 23. Regents' transportation, accommodation, telephone,
and miscellaneous expenses for the month of April, 1989 totalled $988.25.
Richard L. enney Secret


-258 -



JUNE MEETING, 1989


The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
Thursday, June 22, 1989
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson and Womack were also
present, as was Chancellor Wilson. Chancellor Jones was absent; Provost Wong
attended the meeting in his place.
Endowment Management
President Duderstadt called on Vice President Womack to begin the discussion
of endowment management. Vice President Womack called to the table Messrs.
David Thurston, representing Cambridge Associates; Ned Joachimi and Tom Astley,
of the Wellesley Group; Norman Herbert, University Investment Officer; and
Chandler Matthews, University Controller.
Vice President Womack briefly reviewed the current status of the University's
endowment. As of April 30, 1989, 69.8% of the assets were allocated to equity
investments (20.7% to basic value style managers, 18.5% to growth and income style
managers, 21.4% to growth style managers, and 9.2% to other equity investments).
The remaining 30.2% of the endowment is in fixed income investments, divided
between four outside managers. In-house investments total 4.8% of the endowment.
This distribution is in keeping with the Regents' policy guidelines of 70/30
equity/fixed income investments.
Vice President Womack also reviewed a handout he had prepared that showed
various investment allocation scenarios with volatility and annual real rates of return
for various asset classes. The handout also contained charts from a 1988 study of the
endowments of 380 institutions that showed the average annual compound returns of
these endowments compared with those of the University of Michigan. The study also
compared the investment pool asset allocations of the 380 institutions with the
University's allocations. The study demonstrated that the University's performance
was behind that of the average of the other institutional endowments and that its
endowment fund was allocated differently. Mr. Herbert pointed out that the
endowment fund returns for the fiscal year ended June of 1988 indicated the benefits
that had accrued from the first full year of the implementation of the Regents' 1987
asset allocation policies.
Following further discussion of the University Endowment Fund, Mr. Joachimi,
of the Wellesley Group, presented the results of a diversification study to illustrate the
effect that introducing the proposed diversification instruments (real estate, venture
capital, oil and gas investments, and reorganization investments) could have on the
University's endowment. The study demonstrated that the proposed investments
could increase the mean return and reduce the volatility.


-259 -



June Meeting, 1989


Discussion followed about how performance is measured, the University's
performance in relation to other endowment funds, the positive effect that the
University's current investment guidelines have had on performance, and how further
diversification within asset classes has the potential of further enhancing performance
without increasing volatility.
In response to a question from Regent Varner about the University's past
investment in a venture capital fund, Mr. Herbert stated that in 1983 the Regents had
invested in the Michigan Investment Fund, which initially emphasized investments in
Michigan. The rate of return on this investment is expected to approximate 15% per
annum. Further discussion followed about the pros and cons of investing in funds that
provide venture capital for start-up businesses.
Next, Mr. Thurston, of Cambridge Associates, introduced the topic of
diversification of assets via reorganization, oil and gas, and venture capital investing.
With the aid of a handbook that had been prepared by Cambridge Associates, he
explained the various aspects of these types of investments and answered questions
from the Regents. There was a good deal of discussion about reorganization investing.
Several Regents expressed concern about the short period of time they would
have to absorb and make a decision about the extensive amount of information they
had received. Regent Roach requested an opinion from counsel about whether the
types of investments that had been discussed would meet the prudent man standard of
trust investment. Vice President Womack noted that the Regents' opportunity to
make the particular reorganization investment described in the action request would
expire after this meeting. It was decided to continue the investment discussion the
next day, pending receipt of the opinion of counsel.
UM Hospitals Proposed FY 1989-90 Operating Budget
President Duderstadt introduced John Forsyth, Executive Director of University
of Michigan Hospitals, to present the proposed UM Hospitals proposed 1989-90
operating budget.
Mr. Forsyth began his presentation with an "environmental assessment" of the
hospitals. This included a description of the patient population and the human
resources necessary to operate the hospital and how this is affected by current skilled
labor shortages and workforce demographics. Mr. Forsyth described the economic
side of the environmental assessment in terms of the reimbursement environment,
which has placed major limitations on the Hospitals' ability to recoup its operating
costs.
Mr. Forsyth gave detailed descriptions of the Hospitals' past, current, and
projected operating margins. This year, a $200,000 gain (about break-even) is
projected; next year the Hospitals project a $6 million loss. Mr. Forsyth described how
the Hospitals has balanced its budgets over the last five years through growth in
admissions, increased acuity (which yields additional reimbursement), expense
reductions, and non-operating (interest) income.
Expense increases are caused by increases in commodity prices, the salary
program, volume and intensity of cases, and depreciation and interest expense. The
7.4% rate increase requested for 1989-90, which consists of the average of the
increased costs for salaries and commodities, would yield about $7.5 million. This rate


-260 -



June Meeting, 1989


increase will apply only to private pay and commercial payers, not to Medicare,
Medicaid, or Blue Cross. Mr. Forsyth noted that the Consumer Price Index medical
component will rise 8.1%. The $13 million shortfall between cost and payment will be
made up by adjustments in acuity/case mix, volume, and contingency/Blue
Cross/expense reductions.
Regent Nielsen moved approval of the proposed 1989-90 UM Hospitals
operating budget, which includes a daily service rate increase averaging 7.4%. Regent
Brown seconded the motion. Following a short additional discussion, the vote was
taken, and the motion passed unanimously.
Departure of Vice President Linda Wilson
President Duderstadt announced that Vice President Wilson would be leaving
the University to become president of Radcliffe College. He remarked on Vice
President Wilson's extraordinary impact on the University during her tenure here, and
noted the excitement with her arrival at Radcliffe is anticipated. He then called on
Regent Nielsen, who read the following resolution:
Resolution in Honor of Vice President Linda S. Wilson
The Regents of the University of Michigan wish to commend and thank
Vice President Linda S. Wilson as she leaves the university to assume her new
position as president of Radcliffe College.
When she arrived at the University of Michigan in 1985, Linda Wilson
undertook the dual challenge of being the University's first woman executive
officer and the first vice president for research who had not previously been a
University of Michigan faculty member. Undaunted, she demonstrated her
administrative acumen in short order as she presided over a growth in research
support from $159.3 million to the current historic high of $234.6 million.
The Regents are grateful for Linda Wilson's insightful, persuasive
leadership that was instrumental in the University's achieving this milestone
and enhancing its national prominence as one of the nation's premier
research centers.
As she prepares to undertake yet another mission in the pursuit of
excellence in higher education, the Regents express their deepest respect and
appreciation to Linda S. Wilson for her exemplary service as Vice President for
Research at the University of Michigan.
The resolution was adopted by acclamation, and was followed by a standing
ovation.
Vice President Wilson thanked those present for providing her with "a four-year
graduate professional education in working with a major research institution." Regent
Baker expressed his personal thanks to both Vice President Wilson and her husband,
Paul, for their contributions to the University.
The meeting was then recessed to allow time for the participants to move to the
Anderson Room for Public Comments.


-261 -



June Meeting, 1989


Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following individuals on the topics
indicated: Heidi Hayes, student and MSA representative, about Michigan Student
Assembly; Kevin Ramon, Vice Chair of the MSA Minority Affairs Commission, about
Michigan Student Assembly; and Dona Deman, citizen, about her medical records.
Friday, June 23, 1989
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M. in the Regents' Room.
Present were President Duderstadt and Regents Baker, Brown, Nielsen, Power,
Roach, Smith, Varner, and Waters. Provost Vest, Vice President and Secretary
Kennedy and Vice Presidents Cosovich, Johnson, Wilson and Womack were also
present, as was Chancellor Wilson. Chancellor Jones was absent; Provost Wong
attended the meeting in his place.
Michigan Student Assembly
Vice President Johnson presented a report on financial issues involving the
Michigan Student Assembly that had been raised at the last month's meeting. The
information presented in the Regents' agenda materials includes a summary of the
series of events that precipitated the discussion, copies of Plante and Moran auditor's
reports and management letters as of August 31, 1988 and 1987, a financial outlook
for the current fiscal year, and a proposal by MSA to resolve its financial difficulties.
Vice President Johnson emphasized that no effort was made to place blame on
any parties for any wrongdoing that had occurred; mistakes had been made that need
to be corrected. Secondly, he stressed that a financial system needs to be put into
place that can monitor the MSA fiscal process.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Vice President Johnson said that
MSA's current financial status has been audited by Mr. Rodger Wolfe, a Certified
Public Accountant on his staff. Mr. Wolfe said that on August 31, a cash deficit of
about $60,000 is projected. He said that he believes the mistakes occurred because
there was no good financial reporting system in place, and that one of his
recommendations was to institute such a system. He continued, in response to another
question from Regent Baker, that the fact that nobody noticed the underfunding of
Student Legal Services did not mean that the student fees were too high; the amount
of revenue being collected is what is necessary to run the operation as it is currently
constituted.
Regent Baker noted that the new MSA administration acted properly and came
forward in a straightforward manner in presenting the problems to the Regents, and
they should be complimented for that.
President Duderstadt said that it appeared that MSA should be subject to the
same fiscal controls and accounting practices as are other parts of the institution. Mr.
Wolfe responded that MSA accounts are different from other university accounts in
that they are agency-funded accounts, not university departments. To institute the
controls suggested by the President would constitute a major change in University


-262 -



June Meeting, 1989


policy. President Duderstadt said that the funds involved are, nevertheless, University
resources, and thus, more general oversight would be in order.
Vice President Johnson noted that MSA could be subjected to a closer internal
oversight in addition to having a regular external audit. Discussion continued as to the
nature of the errors that had occurred. Regents Roach pointed out that there had
been a gross overexpenditure of funds because the students in MSA did not
understand accrual accounting and did not know how to read a balance sheet. Regent
Power suggested that MSA's accounts be put on a cash basis, rather than accrual basis.
Carl Smith, Director of University Audits, pointed out that the management
letter from Plante & Moran had pointed out MSA's lack of a good financial reporting
system; it was thus a matter of record that MSA had been advised of this serious
deficiency. Were a good system to be put in place, it would educate the students in
accrual accounting and go a long way to improving MSA's operation.
Regent Baker asked whether MSA had been in possession of the management
letter when it presented its financial report to the Regents, and if so, whether its
failure to include the letter inhe te its report had been deliberate. Vice President Johnson
said that MSA had received the management letter prior to making its financial report
to the Regents, and had ignored the advice contained therein. Mr. Smith suggested
that in the future, the management letter and MSA's responses be presented to the
Regents. He observed that an internal audit may not provide as good a perspective as
the external audit, but that his office would be willing, at the Regents' request, to
provide periodic reviews or to assist MSA in its responses to management letters.
Regent Nielsen asserted that as trustees of its funds, MSA officers had acted
improperly and are responsible for misuse of the funds. In order to reinsert fiscal
responsibility back into MSA, he requested that Mr. Smith work with Vice President
Johnson's office to recommend a Regents' resolution that the Regents could adopt in
order to impose on MSA the requirement that it conduct its business in a fiscally
responsible manner.
Regent Roach agreed, and asked who had actually received the management
letter. Mr. Williams responded that he believed it may have been Michael Phillips,
former MSA president.
In response to a question from Regent Smith, Mr. Wolfe said that MSA's
monthly telephone expense amounts to approximately $900.
Further discussion followed about under what circumstances the University
Audit department routinely conducts audits. Mr. Smith pointed out that traditionally,
it only audits agency funds, such as MSA's, on a request basis.
Regents Nielsen and Roach noted that they would like to have the previously
requested resolution imposing fiscal accountability on MSA prior to voting on any
funding allocations for the coming year. This would require that it be provided prior
to the July meeting.
Status of the 1989-90 General Fund Operating Budget
Provost Vest reported that there had been no further action on the University's
state budget request over the past month. It appears that the state appropriation will


-263 -



June Meeting, 1989


be below the level of inflation, which at about 6.2%, Provost Vest noted, is far in
excess of the 4.1% that was predicted at the time of the Governor's original budget
recommendation.
The University administration has decided to implement a 1% "tax" on the
General Fund for reallocation into areas of top University priority. Provost Vest
warned that even a modest salary program, at below the rate of inflation, would
necessitate a double-digit increase in tuition.
Vice President Kennedy gave an update on activities in the state legislature
related to budget issues, noting the possibility that the University's appropriation may
not be determined until fall. He suggested that the Regents send a letter to the
governor and key legislators urging them to support the position of the Presidents
Council to base universities' appropriation on the inflationary increase plus the funds
necessary to operate new facilities.
Discussion followed about the increasing inadequacy of state funding for higher
education in Michigan. President Duderstadt pointed out that the fact that this
pattern is continuing, even in times of favorable economic conditions, indicates that
the legislature is shifting its priorities away from education and into such areas as
corrections. Chancellor Wilson pointed out that the equity issue is particularly
important to the Dearborn campus; its increases in enrollment have not been matched
by per-student appropriation increases. In addition, a significant portion of the
Dearborn campus' operating budget that could otherwise be put toward salaries must
be used to handle debt. Vice Chancellor Wong said that these issues are also of great
concern to the Flint campus.
Minutes
On a motion by Regent Power, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
unanimously approved the Minutes of the meeting of May 18 and 19, 1989.
Reports
Vice President Womack submitted monthly reports on Investment Transactions,
Plant Extension, Litigation, and Personnel-Labor Relations; Vice President Wilson
submitted reports on Projects Established for Research and Other Academic
Activities, May 1 - May 31, 1989, and Summaries of a Selection of Current Research.
Regarding the Plant Extension Report, Regent Roach inquired about the
architect/engineer design errors and omissions described in the Maternal and Child
Health Center project. It was explained that there had been controversies over the
contract, but that the resultant delays would not be significant.
In response to a question from Regent Smith about the Litigation Report, Vice
President Womack said that the new cases would be handled by outside legal counsel.
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Varner, the Regents voted
to receive the Reports.
Gifts and Grants
Vice President Cosovich submitted Summary Reports, Detail Reports, and


-264 -



June Meeting, 1989


Listing of Gifts of $5,000 and Above for May, 1989. The following gifts were received
with thanks and in accordance with their terms and conditions:
Abbott Laboratories Fund, North Chicago, Illinois
pledge payment for research in the College of Pharmacy                       10,000
Advanced Cardiovascular Systems, Inc., Mountain View, California
for research in the Medical School                                           20,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School, the College of Pharmacy, and the Institute of
Gerontology                                                                  83,537
American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts             29,500
American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, Washington, D.C.
for research in the College of Literature Science and the Arts                5,500
American Diabetes Association, Michigan Affiliate, Southfield
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health                    30,250
American Heart Association of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           92,638
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School                                            5,000
Ameritech Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Ameritech Fellowship Program in the Institute of Public Policy Studies, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                 100,300
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   6,050
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School                                           32,833
Bay Area Community Foundation, Bay City
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                    21,008
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust, Flint
for support of the University of Michigan-Flint, College of Arts and Sciences  15,000
Booth Newspapers, Inc., Grand Rapids
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts               5,000
Browne Foundation, Grand Rapids
pledge payment for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics    100,000
Leo Burns rust
for support of the Alumni Association                                         5,387
Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for research in the Medical School                                           12,500
Alexander E. Carson Estate
for support of the College of Engineering                                    10,000
Chevron OilField Research Company, La Habra, California
for the Porus Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School                                           10,875
Chrysler Corporation Fund Detroit
for support of the School of Business Administration, and the University of MichiganDearborn, Schools of Engineering and Management                              32,500
Citicorp, New York, New York
for the Faculty Research and Development Fund in the School of Business
Administration, and for Employee Matching Gifts                              13,242
Cochlear Implant Fund, Grand Rapids
for the Children's Fund For Cochlear Implants in the Medical School          10,000
Cray Research Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts               5,000
Cytogen, Princeton, New Jersey
for nuclear medicine research in the Medical School                          10,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School                                            6,250
Dow Chemical U.SA., Midland
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  13,512
Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York
for the Eastman Kodak Fund in the College of Engineering, and for research in the
University of Michigan-Dearborn School of Engineering                        30,000
Exxon Education Foundation, Florham Park, New Jersey
for the Exxon Corporation Fellowship in the School of Business Administration, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   7,100


-265 -



June Meeting, 1989


W. Hawkins Ferry Estate
for the W. Hawkins Ferry Fund in the Museum of Art                          250,000
First Bank System, Inc. Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program                  5,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program, and for the University
of Michigan-Dearborn Internship Programs                                      8,500
Ford Motor Company Dearborn
for support of the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature, Science, and the Arts  45,000
Ford Motor Land Development, Dearborn
for support of the College of Engineering, and the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane  10,160
Friends of the Rouge, Livonia
for support of the School of Natural Resources                                5,000
GA Technologies Inc. San Diego, California
for the Chihio kiku  Scholarship in the College of Engineering                5,000
William A. Garrison Estate
for the William A. Garrison Memorial Scholarship                              7,281
General Electric Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  23,770
General Electric Company, Pittsfield, Massachusetts
for the Global Leadership Development Program in the School of Business
Administration                                                               10,000
General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program                  6,000
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
1,000 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock and cash gift of $4,125; pledge
payment for the Rollin M. Gerstacker Fund in the College of Engineering     100,188
Alvin Glick Jackson
2,000 shares of Quanex Corporation common stock; for the Sports Services Building,
Department of Athletics                                                      32,750
Blanche M. Goodrich Estate
for support of the University of Michigan-Flint, WFUM-TV                     14,412
George GundToundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research in the School of Natural Resources                               7,500
Halliburton Services, Duncan, Oklahoma
for the Porus Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering  15,000
Lillian G. Hannig Alma
for the R.Eaye McCain Memorial Scholarship in the Alumni Association, and for the
Hazel M. Avery Maternity Award in the School of Nursing                       5,000
Health Education Foundation, East Lansing
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship in the Medical School                       9,061
Hereditary Disease Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School                                           15,000
Herrick Foundation, Detroit
for unrestricted support of the Law School                                  100,000
Howard C. Hewitt, San Diego, California
80 shares of Phillip Morris common stock; pledge payment for thoracic surgery
research fellowships in the Medical School                                    9,995
Robert J. Hiller Trust
for the Robert J. Hiller Professorship in the College of Engineering        525,000
Illinois Bell Telephone Company, Chicago, Illinois
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                   5,475
J. W. and Ida MI. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support of the School of Business Administration                         25,000
Joseph R. Jarabak Charitable Lead Trust, Valparaiso, Indiana
for the Joseph and Louise Ada Jarabak Funds in the School of Dentistry        8,500
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School                                           17,616
Donald L. Katz Trust, Ann Arbor
for the Donald L. Katz Chemical Engineering Lectureship, in the College of
Engineering                                                                  18,914
KMS Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support of the University Musical Society                                 5,000
Ronald J. Kramer, Fenton
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                     5,000
Richard S. and Barbara M. Lane, New York, New York
for the Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies                                                             10,000
Leslie Fund, Inc., Northfield, Illinois
for the Leslie Professorship in the Medical School                           50,000
-266 -



June Meeting, 1989


Marathon Oil Company, Findlay, Ohio
for the Porus Media Industrial Affiliates Program in the College of Engineering, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  23,520
Agnes C. McKay Estate
for the Frank D. and Ages C. McKay Medical Research Fund                     11,171
Medi+ Physics, Emeryville, California
for brain perfusion research in the Medical School                           25,000
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  16,399
Frank W. Milner, Fort Worth, Texas
100 shares of Tenneco common stock, a donor pooled income contribution for the
ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering                                5,275
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota
for thoracic surgery research fellowships in the Medical School, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                                8,235
Robert E. Nederlander, New York, New York
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                        7,500
Needmor Fund, Boulder, Colorado
pledge payment for the Professor L. Hart Wright Memorial Fund in the Law School  100,000
Robert D. Paul, New York, New York
for the Livin Writers Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts  5,000
Pediatric Research Foundation, Houston Texas
for research in the Medical Schoof                                            5,000
Perstorp Pharma, Perstorp Sweden
for diabetes research in the Medical School                                  35,000
Pfizer, Inc., Groton, Connecticut
for the Pfizer Fellowship and other support in the College of Pharmacy       49,000
Duncan Olser Poth, San Antonio Texas
for the Dr. Duncan 0. and Ella M. Poth Endowed Fellowship for Clinical Research
in Dermatology, in the Medical School                                       110,000
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor
pledge payment for the Rackham Renaissance Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies, and gift for the University of Michigan-Flint, WFUM-TV  15,500
Price Waterhouse, New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                  38,250
Leonard Rand, Cagrin Falls, Ohio
pledge payment for endowment support in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts                                                                          5,000
Real Property Law Section of the State Bar of Michigan, Troy
pledge payment for the Institute of Continuing Legal Education in the Law School  5,000
Douglas P.Rearick, Stuart, Florida
for support of the School of Education                                       10,000
Gail Richardson, San Diego, California
for the Stearns Collection of Musical Instruments in the School of Music      5,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for research fellowships in the School of Social Work                        15,000
Rosemary K. Ryan, Flint
for support of the University of Michigan-Flint, Library Project             10,000
Tom Ryan Distributing Company, Inc., Flint
for the University of Michigan-Flint: College of Arts and Sciences, Library Project,
and WFUM-TV                                                                   7,600
Ira L. Schluter Estate
for the Ada Cogswell Schluter and Ira L. Schluter Fund in the School of Education  11,778
Schneider, A Pfizer Company, Minneapolis Minnesota
for thrombolysis research in the Medical School                               5,000
Scimed Life Systems, Inc., Maple Grove, Minnesota
for thrombolysis research in the Medical School                               7,500
Fred E. Shaw Trust
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                       10,838
Simmons Foundation Ann Arbor
for the Sports Services Building, Department of Athletics                     5,000
Lawrence R. Singer, East Detroit
for unrestricted support of the School of Music                               5,000
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne Indiana
for the Samuel D., Martha B., and Mabel I. Sledd Loan Fund in the Medical School  13,650
Jane Morris Soop Estate
for the Jane M. Soop Water Quality Improvement Fund in the Institute of Science
and Technology                                                               16,461


-267 -



June Meeting, 1989


Squibb-Novo, Inc., Princeton New Jersey
for support of the Michigan Diabetes Research and Training Center in the Medical
School                                                                         11,000
George and Florence Symes Foundation, Owosso
for the Symes Scholarship in Chemical and Electrical Engineering, College of
Engineermin                                                                    48,253
Tanabe Seiyaku Company, Osaka, Japan
for support of the Medical School                                              10,000
Textron Charitable Trust, Providence, Rhode Island
for automotive transportation research in the Institute of Science and Technology, and
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                     5,300
Time, Inc. New York, New York
for Employee Matching Gifts                                                     6,975
Florence Tennant Towner Estate
for unrestricted support of the University of Michigan                          5,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for the School of business Administration Associates Program, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                                  5,875
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo
for the School of Business Administration Associates Program, and for Employee
Matching Gifts                                                                  5,460
Robert E. Wagenfeld, New York, New York
first payment on a pledge of $100,000 for the Roy F. and Jean Humphrey Proffitt
Research Professorship in the Law School                                       34,000
John E. Warriner Trust
for the John E. Warriner Scholarships in the School of Education, and in the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts                                            64,580
West Michigan Industrial Sales Company, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics                                 5,000
Marian E. Wright, Flint
for support of the University of Michigan-Flint, College of Arts and Sciences   5,000
The following non-monetary, gifts-in-kind were received:
Adaptive Wheel Chairs, Inc. Detroit, and Jay Medical, Ltd., Boulder, Colorado
assorted cushions and other comfort items; for the Department of Physical Therapy
Jane Bryant Estate
real property in Branford, Connecticut (with a life estate); for the Jane Bryant Scholarship Fund
Charles W. Cares, Jr., Ann Arbor
19th century pamphlets and maps; for the Clements Library
Nancy Elder, Ann Arbor
art supplies; for the School of Art
Grace Kachaturoff, West Bloomfield
a Xerox 550 copying machine; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, School of Education
Micro Business Applications, Southfield
an Apple It computer with related equipment; for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Roho International, Inc., Belleville Illinois
wheel chair cushions and related items; for the Department of Physical Therapy
Ruth Scodel, Ann Arbor
seven volumes of Scholia Graeca in Homeri Iliadem; for the Department of Classical Studies
Professor and Mrs. Chester G. Starr, Ann Arbor
an Early Corinthian alabastron; for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology
Personnel Actions
President Duderstadt pointed out the request for approval of William C. Kelly
as Interim Vice President for Research. Provost Vest, Chancellor Wilson, and Vice
Chancellor Wong mentioned several other noteworthy personnel actions. Regent
Baker commented that he heartily approved of the appointments of emeritus
professors to return to campus to teach freshman seminars. On a motion by Regent
Nielsen, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents approved the following personnel
actions:


-268 -



June Meeting, 1989


NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
John C. Bilello, Ph.D., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering
E. Valentine Daniel, Ph.D., Professor of Anthropology, September 1, 1990
Mark Gersovitz, Ph.D., Professor of Economics
Will Hansen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Civil Engineering
Jean P. Krisch, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Physics
Earl Lewis, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and Afroamerican and African Studies
Sabine MacCormack, D.Phil., Alice Freeman Palmer Professor of History
Stephen S. Mick, Ph.D  Associate Professor of Health Services Management and Policy
Patricia L. Simons, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History of Art and Women's Studies
Ann Laura Stoler, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Anthropology
Alejandro Uribe, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics
William G. Weissert, Ph.D., Professor of Health Services Management and Policy
Bernard Yack, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Political Science
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE
AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 1989
Jane E. Dutton, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Organizational Behavior and Human Resource
Management, School of Business Administration, and Associate Professor of Psychology, College
of Literature Science, and the Arts
I. Douglas Moon, Ph.D. Professor of Operations Management, UM-Flint
William T. Robinson, Pi.D., Associate Professor of Marketing
Stephen B. Shipps, M.Mus., Associate Professor of Music
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Herbert C. Barrows, Jr., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to teach
freshman seminars, Winter term, 1990
Lawrence S. Berlin, Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Education, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Education, for a one-year term, August 1, 1989
William L. Cash, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Education, reappointed to teach freshman seminars, Fall
term, 1989
Joseph J. Firebaugh, Professor Emeritus of English, reappointed to teach freshman seminars, University
year, 1989-90
James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus of Anthropology and Curator Emeritus of Archaeology,
reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Graham 1."Hovey, Professor Emeritus of Communication, reappointed to teach freshman seminars,
Winter term, 1990
Kenneth Jones Professor Emeritus of Botany, reappointed to teach freshman seminars, Fall term, 1989
Frederick W. kahler, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, reappointed to active status, January 1, 1990
Larry King, Associate Professor of Mathematics and Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences,
UM-Flint, reappointed Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, for a three-year
term
Thomas C. Kinnear, Professor of Marketing, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of Business
Administration, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, for a three-year
term
William E. Kotowicz, Professor of Dentistry, and Interim Dean, School of Dentistry, reappointed
Interim Dean, School of Dentistry, For a one-year term or until a permanent Dean is appointed
Bert N. LaDu, Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period
Paul R. Lehman, Associate Dean for Graduate Studies, School of Music, Professor of Music, with
tenure, School of Music, and Lecturer in Education, School of Education appointed Senior
Associate Dean School of Music, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989
Donald M. Levin, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Behavioral Sciences,
UM-Dearborn, reappointed Chair, Department of Behavioral Sciences, UM-Dearborn, for a
three-year term, September 1, 1989
Edwin L. Miller, Professor of Business Administration, with tenure, and Associate Dean, School of
Business Administration, reappointed Associate Dean, School of Business Administration, for a
three-year term
Raleigh Morgan, Jr. Professor Emeritus of Romance Linguistics, reappointed to teach freshman
seminars, Fall term, 1989
Warren G. Palmer Associate Professor Emeritus of Education and Associate Professor Emeritus of
Library Studies, reappointed to teach freshman seminars, Fall term, 1989


-269 -



June Meeting, 1989


William C. Parkinson, Professor Emeritus of Physics, reappointed to active status, Fall term, 1989
Ernst Pulgram, Hayward Keniston Professor Emeritus of Romance and Classical Linguistics,
reappointed to teach freshman seminars Fall term, 1989
Maxwell 0. Reade, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, reappointed to active status, University year,
1989-90
J. Radcliffe Squires Professor Emeritus of English, reappointed to teach freshman seminars, University
year, 1989-9d
William R. Steinhoff, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, reappointed to teach
freshman seminars, Winter term, 1990
Robert C. Taylor Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, reappointed to active status, for a one-year period,
May 1, 1989
William B. Taylor, Professor Emeritus of Dermatology, reappointed to active status, for a one-year
period
Lawrence H. Van Vlack, Professor Emeritus of Materials Engineering, reappointed to active status,
Spring/Summer term, 1989
Joseph E. Vaughn, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Physical Education, reappointed to teach
freshman seminars, Fall term, 1989
Myron E. Wegan, Dean Emeritus and John G. Searle Professor Emeritus of Public Health, School of
Public Health, reappointed to active status, May 1, 1989
Paul W. Zitzewitz, Professor of Physics, with tenure, and Associate Dean, College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, UM-Dearborn, reappointed Associate Dean, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
UM-Dearborn, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
Anita K. Barry, Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed Chair Department of English,
College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, for a three-year term, June 1, 1989
Nicholas B. Dirks, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, appointed Associate Professor of
Anthropology, without tenure September 1, 1989
Thomas M. Donahue, Edward H. White II Distinguished University Professor of Planetary Science, with
tenure, College of Engineering, appointed Professor of Physics, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Raymond Y. Fadous, Associate Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed Chair,
Department of Computer Science, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, for a three-year term
Harry Frank, Chair and Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Resource and
Community Science with tenure, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, reappointed Chair,
Department of Psychology, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, for a one-year term
William C. Kelly, C. Scott Turner Professor of Geological Sciences and Associate Vice President for
Research, appointed Interim Vice President for Research
John W. Kingdon, Professor of Political Science and James Orlin Murfin Professor of Political Science,
appointed Acting Chair, Department of Political Science, University year, 1989-90
Ronald P. Morash, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn, appointed Chair, Department
of Mathematics and Statistics, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, UM-Dearborn, for a threeyear term, September 1, 1989
Bruce Oakley, Professor of Biology, with tenure, appointed Acting Chair, Department of Biology, Winter
term, 990
Garry W. Owens, Assistant cum Associate Professor of Music, with tenure (effective September 1, 1989),
UM-Flint, appointed Chair, Department of Music and Art, College of Arts and Sciences,
UM-Flint, for a three-year term
Paul K. Peterson, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure UM-Flint appointed Chair,
Department of Philosophy, College of Arts and Sciences, PM-Flint,?or a three-year term
Albert C. rice, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint, appointed Chair,
Department of Political Science, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, for a three-year term
Glenda Radine, Director of the Department of Conferences and Institutes, University Extension Service,
appointed Interim Director of University Extension Service, for a one-year period
Paul K. Trojan, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn,
appointed Interim Dean, School of Engineering, UM-Dearborn, for a two-month period
Noel M. Valis, Professor of Spanish with tenure, appointed Acting Chair, Department of Romance
Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, for a one-year period,
January 1 1990
Mayer N. Zald, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, appointed Professor of Business
Administration, without tenure, School of Business Administration, September 1, 1989


-270 -



June Meeting, 1989


The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Gerald E. Crane, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1991, vice James A. Chaffers, term
expired
Henry S.k owalewski, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1991, vice Kurt Brandle, term
expired
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Roger C. Kormendi, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1991, vice Richard P. Bagozzi,
term expired
Coimbatore K. Prahalad, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1991, vice Thomas J.
Schriber, term expired
Karl E. Weick, for a two-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1991, vice James S. Reece, term expired
Institute of Gerontology Executive Board
William N. Kelley, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Joseph E. Johnson III,
term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Roy Clarke, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1992, vice Frederick W.
Gehring, term expired
Sheldon H. Danziger, to serve the Fall term, 1989 (September through December), vice Marvin W.
Peterson
Frederick C. Neidhardt, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1992, vice Sarah
Winans Newman, term expired
Arlene W. Saxonhouse, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1992, vice Rhoads
Murphey, term expired
Sharon E. Sutton, for a three-year term, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1992, vice Enoch Brater,
term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Percy Bates, to succeed himself for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992
John L. Denniston, to succeed himself as an alumni member for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through
June 30, 1992
James S. Diana, SACUA liaison for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Beth G.
Reed term expired
Joyce I. Lindeman, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Robert A. Green, term
expired
School of Music Executive Committee
Harry W. Sargous, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Charles R. Fisher, term
expired
George I. Shirley, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Leslie W. Guinn, term
expired
School of Natural Resources Executive Committee
Terry J. Brown, to succeed himself for a two-year term, September 1 1989 through August 31, 1991
Harrison L. Morton, to succeed himself for a two-year term, September 1, 1989 through August 31, 1991
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Nancy E. Reame, for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992, vice Lois W. Gage, term
expired
Carolyn M. Sampselle, to succeed herself for a three-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1992
Advisory Committee on Recreational SDorts
Dale E. Briggs, for a two-year term, August 1, 1989 through July 31, 1991, vice Donald H. Gray, term
expired
Peggy J. Fpss, for a two-year term, August 1, 1989 through July 31, 1991, vice Phyllis A. Valentine, term
expired
University Council
Harry K. McLaughlin, to extend his term through December 31, 1989
UM-Dearbom Citizens Advisory Committee
Stephen T. Economy, for a four-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1993, vice Stuart Bundy, term
expired
Russell J. Gibb, for a four-year term, July 1, 1989 through June 30, 1993, vice Virginia McCandless, term
expired
-271 -



June Meeting, 1989


Leave of Absence Extensions. The Regents approved extensions of leaves of
absence for Jacquelynne S. Eccles, Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies;
Pankaj K. Mallick, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering at UM-Dearborn;
Laurence T. Maloney, Assistant Professor of Psychology; and David Rauma, Assistant
Professor of Sociology.
Extended Leave of Absence. The Regents approved a two-year leave of
absence for Ali al'Amin Mazrui, Professor of Political Science, effective July 1, 1989.
Assistant Dean for Admissions and Student Services. The Regents approved
the establishment of a new academic administrative position, Assistant Dean for
Admissions and Student Services, in the School of Business Administration, effective
July 1, 1989.
Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies. The Regents
approved the appointment of Shlomo Deshen as the Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting
Professor of Judaic Studies for the Winter term, 1990.
Preston R. Tisch Professor of Judaic Studies. Zvi Y. Gitelman was appointed
the Preston R. Tisch Professor of Judaic Studies, effective July 1, 1989.
James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science. The Regents approved a
two-year extension of the appointment of John W. Kingdon as James Orin Murfin
Professor of Political Science, through June 30, 1992.
Mary Ann and Charles R. Walgreen Jr. Visiting Professor for the Study of
Human Understanding. The Regents approved the appointment of A. K. Ramanujan
as the Mary Ann and Charles R. Walgreen Jr. Visiting Professor for the Study of
Human Understanding from July 1, 1989 through May 31, 1990.
Chair, Department of Political Science. The Regents approved an extension in
Professor Jack L. Walker's term as chair of the Department of Political Science
through June 30, 1992.
George Willis Pack Professor of Forestry. The Regents approved the
appointment of Gary W. Fowler as the George Willis Pack Professor of Forestry,
effective September 1, 1989.
William E. Stirton Professorship of Humanities. The Regents approved the
appointments of Ted-Larry Pebworth and Claude E. Summers to the William E.
Stirton Professorship in Humanities for five-year terms, effective July 1, 1989.
J. Robert Willson Professorship in Obstetrics. The Regents approved the
establishment of the J. Robert Willson Professorship in Obstetrics as a collegiate
professorship, effective July 1, 1989.
Personnel Reports
The Regents received the following Personnel Reports:


-272 -



June Meeting, 1989


ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective July 1, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
School of Business Administration
Laura E. Kodres, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Finance, September 1, 1989
Peter J. Lenk, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics, September 1, 1989
Patricia C. O'Brien, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Accounting, September 1, 1989
School of Dentistry
James S. Allen, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, May 15, 1989
Clayton D. McKenzie, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, May 8, 1989
Medical School
Kirk G. Banerian, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Carol M. Bosanko, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Kathran M. Chan, M.D., Instructor in Radiology
Jordan K. Cohen, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
Ralph P. Crew, D.O., Lecturer in Ophthalmofogy, July 7, 1989
Rebecca L. Hulett, M.D., Lecturer m Radiology
Perry G. Pernicano, M.D., Instructor in Radiology
Susan Sheldon, Ph.D., Lecturer in Pathology, May 15, 1989
Lawrence P. Wood, M.D., Lecturer in Radiology
School of Music
Kenneth P. Cazan B.FA., Lecturer in Music, September 1, 1989
Karen S. Lykes, Mus.M., Assistant Professor of Music, September 1, 1989
College of Pharmacv
Mathew T. Whittico, B.Sc., Assistant Professor of Pharmaceutics, May 1, 1989
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Karen A. Peper, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English, September 1, 1989
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS,
OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 1, 1989
Medical School
James R. Chenoweth, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice
Lynn L. Swan, from Lecturer to Clinical Instructor II in Family Practice
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
School of Business Administration
obert Libby, Peat Marick Main & Co. Professor of Professional Accounting and Professor of
Accounting, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Kathryn E. Stecke, Associate Professor of Operations Management, with tenure, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Roger L. Wright, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
School of Dentistr
W. PaulLan, Associate Professor of Dentistry with tenure, and Assistant Professor of Community
Health Programs School of Public Hea th, scholarly activity leave, July 1, 1989 - June 30, 1990
Sandra A. L. LaTurno, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, child care leave, May 19 - October 19, 1989
School of Education
Cho-Yee To, Professor of Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Law School
Whitmore Gray, Professor of Law, with tenure, leave without salary, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
College of Literature, Science. and the Arts
Walter R. Allen Associate Professor of Sociology and AfroAmerican and African Studies, with tenure,
research leave, September 1 1989 - May 1, 1990
Ruth Behar, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1,
1989 - May 31, 1990


-273 -



June Meeting, 1989


David M. Buss, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, scholarly activity leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
John C. Campbell, Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1,
1989 -May 31, 1990
J. Wehrley Chapman, Professor of Physics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
Lois W. Hoffman, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
George H. Jones, Professor of Biology with tenure personal leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Alfrea G. Meyer Professor of Political Science, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 -
May 31, 1990
Jeffrey D. Palmer, Associate Professor of Molecular Genetics, with tenure, leave without salary,
September 1 - December 31, 1989
Robert M. Stern, Professor of Economics and Public Policy, with tenure, research leave, January 1 -
May 31, 1990
Rudolph P. Thun, Professor of Physics with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31, 1990
Daniel J. Weintraub, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 - May 31,
1990
Medical School
Sylvan Kornblum, Professor of Psychology and Lecturer in Psychology, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, May 1 - June 20, 1989
Robert B. Powell, Instructor in Anesthesiology, extended sick leave, May 1 - 31, 1989
Joyce A. Wahr, Instructor in Anesthesiology, personal leave, June 1 - September 30, 1989
School of Music
David E. Crawford, Associate Dean and Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Ellwood S. Derr, Jr., Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave January 1 - May 31, 1990
Peter Ferran, Associate Professor of Theatre, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31,
1989
Lorna M. Haywood, Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 - December 31, 1989
Gustav Meier, Professor of Music, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31, 1990
School of Nursing
Betty J. Davis Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, extended sick leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1988
UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
John J. Brownfain, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough, September 1, 1989 -
April 30, 1990
M. Kazem Mostafapour, Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1,
1989 - April 30, 1990
Richard S. Norman, Associate Professor of Biology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
April 30, 1990
Marilynn M. Rosenthal, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
April 30, 1990
Thomas E. Snabb Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, personal leave, September 1, 1989 -
April 30, 190
Dan J. Swift, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, research leave, September 1, 1989 -
April 30, 1990
UM-Dearbom School of Education
Richard H. Moyer, Professor of Science Education, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - April 30,
1989
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Fredrica K. Bartz, Chair and Professor of English, with tenure, extended sick leave, January 24 - May 31,
1989
Birgitta J. Vance Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1, 1989 -
Ma 31, 190
Kenneth E. Schilling, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 -
December 31 1990
Paul K. Garlick, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, sabbatical leave, September 1 -
December 31, 1989
Richard A. Gull, Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January 1 - May 31,
1990
Alfred C. Raphelson, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, retirement furlough, January 1, 1990 -
May 31, 1991


-274 -



June Meeting, 1989


UM-Flint School of Management
Kristen D. Skivington, Assistant Professor of Management, extended sick leave, November 22 -
December 19, 1988
TERMINATIONS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 31, 1989, unless otherwise indicated
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Keith A. Brown, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure
School of Art
Irene B. Tejada, Assistant Professor of Art and Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education
School of Business Administration
Harry A. Newman, Assistant Professor of Accounting
School of Dentistry
Major M. Ash Jr, Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, June 30, 1989
Richard E. Charlick, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Earl J. Dinger, Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, May 2, 1989
Raymond J Fonseca, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Oral Surgery,
without tenure, Medical School, June 30, 1989
Roxanne Jeffries, Lecturer in Dentistry, June 2, 1989
Daniel A. Kruse, Lecturer in Dentistry, May 19, 1989
College of Enineerin
Robert M. Caddell, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, December 31, 1988
John S. King, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, with tenure, December 31, 1988
Law School
Samuel D. Estep, Professor of Law, with tenure
William J. Pierce, Professor of Law, with tenure
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
William J. Ard, Assistant Professor of Linguistics
David A. Aschauer, Assistant Professor of Economics
Philip E. Converse, Robert Cooley Angell Distinguished University Professor of Sociology and Professor
of Political Science, with tenure, May 11,1989
Martine Danan, Lecturer in Romance Languages and Literatures
Louis L. Orlin, Professor of Ancient Near Eastern History and Literature
Polly E. Szatrowski, Assistant Professor of Japanese and Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Maria R. Vitti-Alexander, Lecturer in Romance Languages and Literatures
David M. Ward Lecturer in Italian
Richard Wrangham, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Biology, without tenure
Draga Zec, Assistant Professor of Linguistics
Medical School
Joseph R. Gasparovic, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology
Jay R. Harness, Clinical Associate Professor II of Surgery
Thomas J. Hegarty, Instructor in Radiation Oncology, May 3, 1989
Eileen M. Murphy, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, June 23, 1989
Loraine A. Oman-Ganes, Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, May 11, 1989
Patricia A. Prue, Clinical Instructor II in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, June 16 1989
Peter E. Smouse, Professor of Human Genetics, with tenure, and Professor of Biological Sciences,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 1989
Suzanne C. Swanson, Clinical Instructor II in Obstetrics and Gynecology, May 26, 1989
School of Music
Kathleen C. Gable, Lecturer in Music
Roger E. Jacobi, Professor of Music, without tenure
School of Public Health
Kenneth W. Cochran, Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Pharmacology,
without tenure, Medical School, June 30, 1989
Avedis Donabedian, Nathan Sinai Distinguished Professor of Public Health, with tenure, June 30, 1989


-275 -



June Meeting, 1989


UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Fredrica K. Bartz, Chair and Professor of English, with tenure
G. Grant Stitt, Assistant Professor of Sociology/Anthropology, June 30, 1989
Priscilla Z. Tauss, Assistant Professor of Theatre
Joseph W. Trigg, Jr., Assistant Professor of Computer Science
Aysenur Unal, Assistant Professor of Mathematics
Retirement Memoirs
Provost Vest noted the memoirs for James Brinkerhoff, former Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer, and Philip Converse, former head of the Institute for
Social Research. He called on Vice President Wilson to comment on the group of
retirement memoirs for primary research staff. Vice President Wilson noted that
these memoirs reflect a desire to recognize the importance of research scientists, who
as non-teaching faculty members, have not been accorded this honor and recognition
until now.
Regent Baker moved to adopt the retirement memoirs; Regent Varner
seconded the motion. Regent Power commented that the University ought to find a
means for communicating to the University community, particularly students, the
"nature, character, and distinction" of its faculty.
Regarding Vice President Brinkerhoff, Regent Baker noted the contributions he
had made, particularly during the 1980's, both during the financial retrenchment of the
time and in organizing and supervising the construction and financing of the new
University Hospital complex.
The vote was then taken, and the motion to adopt the retirement memoirs
carried unanimously.
Major M. Ash, Jr., D.D.S., Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry and research
scientist in the Dental Research Institute, will retire from active faculty status on June
30, 1989, after an outstanding career in teaching, research, and administration at the
School of Dentistry.
Born in Bellaire, Michigan, Professor Ash received his B.S. degree in chemistry
at Michigan State University in 1947, his D.D.S. degree at Emory University in 1951,
and his M.S. degree in periodontics from the University of Michigan in 1954. From
1952-53, he served on the staffs of Emory University and Grady Memorial Hospital,
and was a consultant to the Veterans Administration Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia.
Professor Ash's tenure on the faculty of the University of Michigan School of
Dentistry began in 1953, when he took the position of instructor in periodontics and in
oral pathology. He was promoted to assistant professor in 1956, associate professor in
1959, and professor in 1962. From 1969-87, he served as chair of the Department of
Occlusion and as director of both the TMJ/Oral Facial Pain Clinic and the
Stomatognathic Physiology Laboratory. In 1984, he was named the Marcus L. Ward
Professor of Dentistry.
Professor Ash has published extensively in the area of occlusion, and his book,
Occlusion (co-authored with S. P. Ramfjord), is used as a text and reference
throughout the world. He is author or co-author of three other major texts and well
over one hundred scientific articles. He has an international reputation in dentistry
and holds an honorary degree from the University of Bern in Switzerland, where he
was a visiting professor in 1975 and again in 1982.


-276 -



June Meeting, 1989


Additionally, Professor Ash has been a leader in many scientific organizations,
including the American Academy of Oral Pathology, American Academy of
Periodontology, American Association for the Advancement of Science, New York
Academy of Sciences, International Association for Dental Research, Federation
Dentaire Internationale, Bioelectrical Repair and Growth Society, the Washtenaw
District Dental Society (for which he has served as president), and the American and
Michigan Dental Societies. He is also a member of honor societies Phi Kappa Phi,
Sigma Xi, Omicron Kappa Upsilon, Kappa Kappa Psi, and a fellow of both the
American and the International Colleges of Dentists.
In addition to his teaching and administrative duties, Professor Ash served on
many School of Dentistry committees and has been a consultant to a number of
professional journals and organizations. At one point in his career, he also found time
to be editor-in-chief of School of Dentistry publications.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Major M. Ash, Jr., Marcus L. Ward Professor Emeritus of Dentistry
and Research Scientist Emeritus.
Max Bender, associate research physicist, retired from active faculty status on
April 30, 1982, after a productive career as a researcher at the Transportation
Research Institute.
In 1949, Max Bender received his B.S. degree in physics and biology at St. Louis
University. He subsequently earned his M.S. degree in physics and mathematics from
St. Louis University in 1952. He joined McDonnell Aircraft Corporation in 1953 as a
development engineer, and in 1956, he became a research scientist at Westinghouse
Electric Corporation's Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory. In 1959, he joined the
research staff of Princeton University's Plasma Physics Laboratory, where he
developed instrumentation to study radiation losses and superconducting solenoid
magnetic fields.
In 1963, Mr. Bender joined Bendix Aerospace Corporation in Ann Arbor as a
staff engineer, designing experiments for re-entry vehicles and for radiographic studies
of high energy sources. He became an associate research physicist at the University of
Michigan's Willow Run Laboratory in 1967, where he developed a reflective
measurement facility to aid night vision. He returned to Bendix Aerospace as a senior
staff engineer in 1969, where he developed x-ray imaging systems.
Mr. Bender joined the research faculty of the Highway Safety Research Institute
(later to become the Transportation Research Institute) in 1972 as an associate
research scientist. His primary responsibility was to develop a high speed cine x-ray
system for use in conjunction with the impact biomechanics research that was
underway at the institute.
Max Bender was successful in attracting sponsor support for the conception,
design, and development of this high speed x-ray imaging system. He was successful in
enhancing and adapting the system to various biomechanical research programs, and
in sharing the results of his breakthroughs with the international biomechanics
community. His research and development at the University enabled other
researchers to broaden their choices of experimental geometry, kilovoltage, and
current in the search for answers about the injury mechanisms that occur when vehicle
occupants are involved in crashes.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Max
Bender Associate Research Physicist Emeritus.
Harry H. Blecker, professor of chemistry at the University of Michigan-Flint,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1989, after a most productive career as a
teacher, advisor, and scholar.


-277 -



June Meeting, 1989


Professor Blecker received his B.S. degree from Bucknell University in 1951 and
his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Rutgers University in 1953 and 1955, respectively.
He came to the Flint campus in 1957 as assistant professor of chemistry; he was
promoted to associate professor in 1961 and professor in 1967.
Founder of the Department of Chemistry at University of Michigan-Flint,
Professor Blecker was the department chair from 1965-74 and 1981-82, and was
instrumental in its growth from one faculty member to eight. He has set high
expectations for his students while working closely with them as a mentor.
A key participant in University governance, Professor Blecker has served ably
on virtually every college and University committee. His incisive, analytical wisdom
has benefited the Flint campus in countless ways.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher, scholar, and leader for his
dedicated service by naming Harry H. Blecker Professor Emeritus of Chemistry.
David G. Bowers, research scientist at the Institute for Social Research and
associate professor emeritus of psychology, retired from active faculty status on August
31, 1984, after a very productive career as a researcher and teacher.
Born in Ohio, Professor Bowers studied at Kent State University, where he
received his B.S. degree in business administration in 1957 and his M.S. degree in
psychology in 1958. His doctoral work at the University of Michigan led to his Ph.D.
degree in organizational psychology in 1961.
From 1962-66, as a study director in the Survey Research Center at the Institute
for Social Research, Professor Bowers became associated with Rensis Likert, director
of the institute, and Professor Stanley Seashore in a series of pioneering studies on
participative management and organizational change. Professor Bowers then moved
to the institute's Center for Research on the Utilization of Scientific Knowledge, while
maintaining his close association with Likert. From 1966-70, he directed what is still
one of the largest studies of organizational interventions, the Michigan Inter-Company
Longitudinal Study. His book, Survey of Organizations, developed as a comparative
survey instrument for this study, has become one of the most widely used
organizational surveys in the world.
In the early 1970s, Professor Bowers directed research on the all-volunteer
Navy and helped to develop the Navy's human resource management system. These
projects, along with his other organizational studies, led to the formulation of the
survey-guided development paradigm of organizational development and change.
During those years, Professor Bowers also continued to offer a popular graduate
course on theories of organizational change, which he taught until his retirement.
Beginning in the mid-1970s, Professor Bowers' work as a research scientist
focused on problems of human resource accounting, and led to his book, Systems of
Organization. By 1978, he had also become president and vice chair of Rensis Likert
Associates, Inc. In 1982, in the wake of the air traffic controllers' strike, Professor
Bowers was appointed by the secretary of transportation to a three-person committee
which studied the causes and the consequences of this major strike.
The Regents now salute this distinguished psychologist for his dedicated service
by naming David G. Bowers Research Scientist Emeritus.
James F. Brinkerhoff, professor of business administration and former vice
president and chief financial officer, will retire on June 30, 1989, after a career of
extraordinary service to the University of Michigan.
Born in Chicago, Mr. Brinkerhoff attended public schools in Hamburg, New
York, and attended Alma College from 1941-43. His education was interrupted by
service with the United States Army in the Pacific Theatre during World War II, for
which he was awarded the Silver Star in 1944. After the war, he earned his B.B.A.


-278 -



June Meeting, 1989


degree at the University of Toledo in 1947 and his M.B.A. degree at the University of
Michigan in 1948.
Mr. Brinkerhoff began his professional career in 1948 as the personnel manager
of Square D Company in Detroit. In 1951, he took a position with Argus Cameras in
Ann Arbor, where, over the next ten years, he worked his way up from executive
assistant to the president to vice president for operations. Mr. Brinkerhoff first came
to the University of Michigan in 1962 as director of plant extension. In 1967, he was
promoted to director of business operations, and in 1970, associate vice president. In
1971, Mr. Brinkerhoff moved to the University of Minnesota, where he served as vice
president for finance, planning, and operations (later expanded to vice president for
finance and development) and professor of management. He returned to the
University of Michigan in 1977 to assume the role of vice president and chief financial
officer, and in 1984, he was named professor of business administration. He
relinquished his role as vice president and chief financial officer in June of 1988.
In addition to his professional roles, Mr. Brinkerhoff has been an active
participant in civic and community affairs. He served on the Ann Arbor City Council
from 1958-60, and has served in leadership roles in the Ann Arbor Public Schools,
Chamber of Commerce, Rotary Club, United Fund, First Presbyterian Church, and
other charitable and civic organizations in Ann Arbor and Minneapolis. Mr.
Brinkerhoffs expertise has benefited a wide variety of business, educational, and
professional organizations; among the boards he has served on are Chemotronics
International (chairman of the board from 1963-79); the American Management
Association; the Eastern, Central and National Associations of College and University
Business Officers; the Association of Universities for Research in Astronomy; Alma
College; College Retirement Equities Fund (CREF); Research Libraries Group
(RLG); and General Automotive Corporation.
In all of his endeavors, Jim Brinkerhoff has exhibited outstanding qualities of
leadership, integrity, and strength that have been of inestimable value to his
colleagues, the Regents, and the University. As he enters this new phase of his life,
the Regents trust that the University can continue to benefit from his sage counsel.
For his exemplary service, the Regents now name James F. Brinkerhoff Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Business
Administration.
Donald A. Brown, assistant professor of education in the School of Education
and director of counseling in the Office of Student Affairs at the University of
Michigan- Dearborn, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1988,
following a successful career as a counselor and teacher.
Professor Brown received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from the University
of Michigan in 1954, 1959, and 1971, respectively. He was the director of University of
Michigan-Dearborn's Counseling and Student Affairs Office from 1972 until his
retirement. His professional accomplishments included being a licensed psychologist
for the State of Michigan and a certified sex therapist with the American Association
of Sex Educators, Counselors, and Therapists.
Since 1979, Professor Brown has been an assistant professor for the School of
Education. In this capacity, he has taught the school's course in "Human Sexuality,"
and served as a member of the school's governing faculty.
Specializing in psychotherapy, student affairs, and human sexuality, Professor
Brown has served as a consultant for many corporations and educational associations,
including Massey-Ferguson, the Michigan Education Association, and the Northville
Education Association. In addition to publishing articles on human sexuality, he also
co-edited a book entitled Sexuality in America: Contemporary Perspectives on Sexual
Identity, Dysfunction and Treatment. Professor Brown maintains membership in a


-279 -



June Meeting, 1989


number of professional organizations, including the American Psychological
Association and the Michigan Society of Licensed Psychologists.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Donald A.
Brown Assistant Professor Emeritus of Education.
Keith A. Brown, associate professor of architecture in the College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1989.
While earning his B.S. degree in architecture from the University of Michigan in
1964, Professor Brown worked as a project designer and director for the well-known
architectural firm of Gunnar Birkerts and Associates in Birmingham, Michigan. He is
a founding partner of Brown/Dickson Partnership, a very successful architecture and
urban planning practice located in Toledo, Ohio. Professor Brown has been the
recipient of such awards as the George Booth Traveling Fellowship and the Michigan
Society of Architects Honor Award.
In 1969, Professor Brown joined the faculty of the University of Michigan as an
assistant professor of architecture. He was promoted to the rank of associate
professor in 1974. As a member of the professional studio faculty, Professor Brown
taught architectural design to generations of students. His dedication to his students
and the architecture program was well-known throughout the University. Professor
Brown sought new ways to raise the level of discourse in the studio and helped to
bridge the gap between professional practice and teaching.
Former students, now in professional practice, remember his patience and
solicitude as a design teacher. The studio faculty members consider Professor Brown
a valued colleague, who has been innovative in his methods of instruction and has
provided immeasurable input to the professional programs in architecture.
The Regents salute this faculty member by naming Keith A. Brown Associate
Professor Emeritus of Architecture.
Charles F. Cannell, research scientist in the Institute for Social Research and
professor emeritus of communication, retired from active faculty status on April 30,
1984.
A native of New Hampshire, Professor Cannell received his A.B. degree from
the University of New Hampshire in 1936 and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in
psychology from Ohio State University in 1948 and 1952, respectively.
Professor Cannell's voluminous publications and professional engagement
significantly shaped the development of interviewing methodology. He has acquired
international renown for his research in survey methodology, particularly for his
illumination of the interview process. He began his professional career in 1944 as
head of the field section in the Division of Program Surveys of the United States
Department of Agriculture. In 1946, he became one of the founders of the University
of Michigan's Survey Research Center, where he organized and directed field
operations for several years. He and co-author Robert L. Kahn are particularly known
for The Dynamics of Interviewing, in which they innovatively applied psychological
theory to the question-and-answer process. For many years, Professor Cannell headed
a program of research on problems of measurement errors in surveys and on methods
for reducing response bias.
Professor Cannell has long emphasized the importance of improving the quality
of public health questionnaires and interviewing techniques. His internationally
recognized expertise in this area prompted involvement with several American and
foreign health agencies, including the Federal Institute of Health of Yugoslavia and
Poland. He also served as a consultant for the World Health Organization's
seven-country International Study of Medical Care Utilization.
In 1952, Professor Cannell became a lecturer in the Department of Journalism.


-280 -



June Meeting, 1989


He was appointed assistant professor in 1954, associate professor in 1957, and
professor in 1962. He frequently taught courses in research methods and social
science writing. He helped establish and develop the interdepartmental Ph.D. degree
program in communication research, and directed it for several years.
Professor Cannell's honors include the Fulbright Senior Scholar Award in 1981.
He is also a fellow in both the American Psychological Association and the American
Statistical Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist and teacher for his dedicated
service to the University community by naming Charles F. Cannell Research Scientist
Emeritus.
Nathan S. Caplan, research scientist in the Survey Research Center of the
Institute for Social Research and professor emeritus of psychology, retired from active
faculty status on November 15, 1986.
Professor Caplan received his B.S. degree from the University of Richmond in
1951, his M.S. degree from the University of North Carolina in 1953, and his Ph.D.
degree from Case Western Reserve University in 1961, with a brief interval of service
(1955-57) in the United States Navy.
Professor Caplan's work at the University of Michigan was most closely
associated with the Institute for Social Research. He joined the University in 1961 as
a study director in the Research Center for Group Dynamics. He joined the Center
for Research on the Utilization of Scientific Knowledge shortly after its creation, and
upon its close, he became a member of the Survey Research Center.
Early in his career, Professor Caplan began a series of significant contributions
to the understanding of juvenile delinquency and of economically disadvantaged
youth. Throughout much of his career, he had major interests in addressing
methodological problems of large-scale social research procedures in natural settings.
He was successfully involved in applying such procedures to a variety of social
phenomena ranging from ghetto riots to resettlement of Indochinese "Boat People."
He is particularly renowned for his analyses of social science research utilization in
government policy formulation.
Widespread recognition of Professor Caplan's contributions and expertise led to
his serving in advisory capacities to a broad array of national agencies and
organizations, among them the National Science Foundation, the National Institute of
Mental Health, the National Academy of Science, the Argonne National Laboratory,
the Congressional Office of Technology Assessment, and the Kerner Commission. He
has also been called on to serve in formal advisory roles by the governments of
Finland and the People's Republic of China.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist for his dedicated service by
naming Nathan S. Caplan Research Scientist Emeritus.
Eugenia S. Carpenter, assistant research scientist in the School of Public Health,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1984.
Ms. Carpenter received her B.A. degree in political science from the University
of Illinois in 1949 and her M.P.P. degree from the University of Michigan in 1973. She
joined the School of Public Health in 1966, following a decade and a half of
increasingly responsible roles with the federal government. Starting as a field
representative in the Social Security Administration, she rose to the position of
principal staff officer in the Office of the Secretary of the Department of Health,
Education, and Welfare. Among her special roles were service as the departmental
liaison to the President's Committee on Consumer Interests and to the
interdepartmental committee and Citizens' Advisory Council on the Status of Women.
Eugenia Carpenter's career at the University of Michigan was also marked by


-281 -



June Meeting, 1989


contributions to a variety of health policy areas. She was the principal investigator for
studies in health professions education, physician distribution, hospital locational
decisions, hospital capacity reduction, licensing of health professionals, and the role of
women in the health professions. In addition to her active research role, she was a
valuable participant in the teaching of health politics and in working with students
individually and as an academic mentor. Her service to the University, state and
national governments, and professional associations has also been extensive. Of major
significance was service as co-chair of the Academic Women's Caucus, chair of the
State Relations Committee, chair of the Health Manpower Work Group of the
Michigan Public Health Statute Revision Project, vice-chair of the Michigan Health
Occupations Council, member of the steering committee of the National
Clearinghouse on Licensure Enforcement and Regulation, and founder of the
Women's Health Administrators Network of the American Public Health Association.
As a researcher, teacher, mentor, and activist, Ms. Carpenter has exhibited an
uncompromising commitment to excellence, a deep and abiding concern for equity be
it in the University or outside the University's walls and a unique gift for motivating
students to achieve their best, all of which reflect the best of the University of
Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Eugenia S.
Carpenter Assistant Research Scientist Emeritus.
Dorwin P. Cartwright, research coordinator in the Research Center for Group
Dynamics and professor emeritus of psychology, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 1978, after a distinguished career as researcher, administrator, and teacher.
Born in Iowa, the son of a preacher, Professor Cartwright moved often
throughout the country in his early years. He received his A.B. degree from
Swarthmore College in 1937 and his M.A. degree from Harvard University in 1938. In
1940, he received his Ph.D. degree in psychology, also from Harvard University, and
spent a postdoctoral period working with Dr. Kurt Lewin at the State University of
Iowa.
During World War II, Professor Cartwright joined the Division of Programs and
Surveys in the United States Department of Agriculture (later the Survey Research
Center at the University of Michigan). His studies of motives for the purchase of war
bonds and the effect of bombing on civilian morale in Germany were among the first
social surveys using psychological concepts. In 1945, Professor Cartwright helped Dr.
Lewin found the Research Center for Group Dynamics at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology. Following Dr. Lewin's untimely death in 1946, Professor Cartwright
became the Center's director and brought it to the University of Michigan, where it
joined the Survey Research Center to create the Institute for Social Research.
Over his 31 years with the Research Center for Group Dynamics, Professor
Cartwright was its intellectual leader and a major member of the Institute for Social
Research. He, more than any other person, developed and nurtured group dynamics
as a field of study. His research and writings on the mathematical foundations of
group dynamics, the sources of social power, the nature of group structure, the causes
of risk taking in groups, and many other topics, have won him world-wide recognition.
He has been a tireless citizen, serving on countless advisory and review committees for
agencies in the federal government and professional societies.
The Regents now salute this worthy scientist for his dedicated service by naming
Dorwin P. Cartwright Research Coordinator Emeritus.
Lucian W. Chaney, research engineer in the Department of Aerospace
Engineering, retired from active faculty status on September 30, 1980, after 25 years as
a researcher in the College of Engineering.
-282 -



June Meeting, 1989


Mr. Chaney received his B.A. degree in physics from Carleton College in 1941.
He first joined the University of Michigan staff in 1947 as a research engineer in the
Department of Electrical Engineering and as a member of the Willow Run Research
Laboratory. He transferred to the Department of Aerospace Engineering in 1950 and
joined the High Altitude Engineering Laboratory where he served from 1950-53 and
1961-80. He was promoted to research scientist in 1974.
Mr. Chaney was a valued and highly respected member of the research team
studying high altitude phenomena. He was a member of the laboratory building
committee which developed plans for the Research Activities Building. He also
participated in the development of lectures on infrared techniques which were
presented several times in the College of Engineering summer series. In addition, he
lectured in the Environmental Science Symposium given at the University of
Rochester.
One of Mr. Chaney's early research interests was the development of a
technique to measure the density of the upper atmosphere. This was done by
dropping plastic spheres from Aerobee sounding rockets at the height of the rocket's
trajectory and measuring the acceleration of the spheres as they fell to earth. The
experiments leading to this development were conducted at White Sands Proving
Ground in New Mexico. A later and long-time project was the development of
Fourier transform spectroscopy. Instruments of his design were flown on several
Nimbus satellites and a Mariner Mars mission. The technique continues to be used to
measure atmospheric temperature profiles. The spectroscopic technique, augmented
by laser measurements, was later applied to the open air measurement of pollutant
gases and is now an accepted procedure for the measurement of toxic waste.
The Regents now salute this distinguished staff member by naming Lucian W.
Chaney Research Engineer Emeritus.
Richard E. Charlick, D.D.S., associate professor of dentistry in the Department
of Prosthodontics, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 1989, after a long
association with the University and the School of Dentistry.
Born in Highland Park, Michigan, Dr. Charlick graduated from Detroit's Cooley
High School in 1953 and pursued pre-dental studies at Michigan State University. He
then went on to the University of Michigan, where he received his D.D.S. degree in
1959 and his M.S. degree in restorative dentistry in 1967. During 1959 and 1960, he
held a rotating dental internship in the United States Navy. In 1962, he joined the
staff of the University of Michigan as a clinical instructor in the School of Dentistry.
He was promoted to assistant professor in 1967 and associate professor in 1971.
Dr. Charlick's research interests and activities have focused primarily on
evaluating and developing motor skills in the preclinical setting. He has also
conducted research on the crushing strength of dental amalgam containing pins, and
developed a course in dental anatomy that he described in subsequent videotapes and
presentations. In addition to his teaching and research responsibilities, he has
maintained a part-time private practice since 1986.
Dr. Charlick is a member of the Michigan and the American Dental
Associations, Washtenaw District Dental Society, F.B. Vedder Society of Crown and
Bridge Prosthodontics, Duddels Study Club, Livingston County Dental Association,
and Omicron Kappa Upsilon (dentistry honor society). He also served as chair of the
School of Dentistry's Scholarship and Promotions Committee, and was a counselor for
first-year dental students for many years. In 1985, the first-year dental class honored
him with their outstanding instructor-of-the-year award.
Dr. Charlick and his sons (who are also University of Michigan School of
Dentistry alumni) have spent summers with a Christian dental mission in remote


-283 -



June Meeting, 1989


jungles of Colombia, South America, administering dental care to natives of those
areas.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Richard E. Charlick Associate Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
Kenneth W. Cochran, professor of epidemiology in the School of Public Health
and associate professor of pharmacology in the Medical School, will retire from active
faculty status on June 30, 1989, after 37 years of continued service.
Professor Cochran received his S.B. degree in physiology in 1947 and his Ph.D.
degree in pharmacology in 1950, both from the University of Chicago. While there, he
served as a research associate in the Department of Pharmacology's Chemical
Warfare Research Center for a period of two years, where he studied the biochemical
effects of radiation and the toxicology and pharmacology of various rodenticides.
In 1952, Professor Cochran joined the faculty of the University of Michigan's
School of Public Health as a research associate in the Department of Epidemiology.
He was promoted to assistant professor in 1955, associate professor in 1961, and
professor in 1968. He received a joint appointment as associate professor in the
Department of Pharmacology in 1977. Professor Cochran developed the course,
"Concepts of Parasitism," which he taught in the Department of Epidemiology. He
also participated actively in teaching the course on food toxicology in the Department
of Environmental and Industrial Health.
Professor Cochran's primary research interests were concerned with the
investigation of natural products derived from mushrooms as potential pharmaceutical
agents with antiviral activity. His interests then broadened to the investigation of
various synthetic agents in the treatment or chemoprophylaxis of poliomyelitis and
influenza. He was certified by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene (Toxicology)
in 1962 and by the American Board of Medical Microbiology (Virology) in 1964. He
served with distinction as the executive secretary for the North American Mycological
Association and directed a national mushroom-poisoning case registry.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Kenneth W. Cochran Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology and
Associate Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology.
Philip E. Converse, Robert Cooley Angell Distinguished University Professor of
Sociology and Political Science in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
research scientist in the Center for Political Studies at the Institute for Social
Research, retired from the University of Michigan on May 11, 1989. He had resigned
as director of the Institute for Social Research January 31, 1989, to prepare for his new
role as director of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at
Stanford University.
Professor Converse received his B.A. degree from Denison University in 1949,
his M.A. degree from the University of Iowa in 1950, and his Certificat des Etudes
Franqaises from the University of Paris in 1956. He went on to earn his M.A. degree
in 1956 and his Ph.D. degree in 1958, both from the University of Michigan. His
career at the University of Michigan began in 1958 with his appointment as study
director of the Survey Research Center at the Institute for Social Research (ISR). He
was named program director of the Survey Research Center in 1962, director of the
Center for Political Studies in 1982, and Director of ISR in 1986. Simultaneously, he
served on the faculties of the Sociology and Political Science Departments, achieving
the rank of professor of sociology and political science in 1965. He was named the
Robert C. Angell Professor of Sociology and Political Science in 1975 and the Robert
Cooley Angell Distinguished University Professor of Sociology and Political Science in
1982.
An internationally renowned scholar of public opinion and electoral behavior,


-284 -



June Meeting, 1989


Professor Converse is a widely quoted author whose publications occupy a prominent
place in such areas as political ideology, the determinants of voting behavior, attitude
measurement, time use, quality of life, mass-elite linkages, and survey methodology.
Professor Converse is the author of three classic works: "The Nature of Belief Systems
in Mass Publics," The American Voter (co-author), and Elections and the Political Order
(co-author), and is co-author of the book, Political Representation in France, which was
co-winner of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Award of the American Political
Science Association in 1987.
Professor Converse's stature in the social science community is evidenced by his
having served in leadership positions in a number of professional organizations,
foundations, and councils. He has been the recipient of Fulbright and Guggenheim
Fellowships and a fellowship at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral
Sciences. Professor Converse is an elected member of the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences (1968), the National Academy of Sciences (1973), the Finnish Academy
of Science and Letters (1985), and the American Philosophical Society (1988). He
received an honorary degree from his alma mater in 1974 and a Doctorate in Humane
Letters from the University of Chicago in 1979. He was given the award four
Exceptionally Distinguished Achievement of the American Association for Public
Opinion Research in 1986. At the University of Michigan, Professor Converse
received the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1973 and he was named the
Henry Russel Lecturer in 1987.
The Regents now salute this distinguished social scientist and teacher for his
dedicated service by naming Philip E. Converse Research Scientist Emeritus and
Robert Cooley Angell Distinguished University Professor Emeritus of Sociology and
Political Science.
Lolagene C. Coombs, assistant research scientist and associate director of the
Population Studies Center, retired from active faculty status on December 31, 1981.
Ms. Coombs received her A.B. and M.A. degrees in sociology from the
University of Chicago in 1937 and 1939, respectively. From 1939-41, she did
additional graduate work at Chicago, passing all requirements for the doctorate other
than the dissertation.
During the period before World War II, Ms. Coombs worked as a research
assistant at the University of Chicago and as a research associate at Science Research
Associates. After the war, she moved to Ann Arbor with her husband, the late
Professor Emeritus Clyde Coombs, and spent a number of years rearing her children.
She returned to her professional career as a research assistant and research associate
with the Bureau of Public Health Economics of the School of Public Health from
1957-62. In 1962 she joined the Population Studies Center as a research associate; in
1974 her title was changed to assistant research scientist, and in 1979 she gained the
additional title of associate director of the Populations Studies Center.
Ms. Coombs' research on the sociology of human fertility won her international
recognition. Her collaborative work with her husband, Clyde Coombs, in developing
scales for measuring preferences for number and sex of children is widely cited, and
the resulting scales have been used in studies in many countries. In 1962, she helped
initiate the important Detroit Area longitudinal studies of the relation of reproductive
patterns to family welfare. This study is still ongoing 27 years later, with studies of
what has happened not only to the original panel of mothers but also to the infants
they bore in 1962, who are now themselves marrying and having children. Beginning
in the 1970s, Ms. Coombs worked with the Michigan team that was studying the
transformation of Taiwan from a poor, high-fertility country to a flourishing,
well-educated and low-fertility country. Her more than 40 publications on this


-285 -



June Meeting, 1989


important transition have helped make Taiwan a model for studying potential and
actual fertility declines in the third world.
In honor of Lolagene C. Coombs, the Population Studies Center established the
Lolagene C. Coombs Dissertation Award. This award was intended to reflect her high
standards and her concern for the intellectual and material well-being of center
students. Her contribution to the development of the center's training program and
her interest in the continuing improvement of center research facilities were greatly
appreciated by the staff and students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished staff member by naming Lolagene C.
Coombs Assistant Research Scientist Emeritus.
Jack J. Distler, associate research scientist in the Department of Internal
Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, retired from active faculty status on June 30,
1987. Dr. Distler had been a member of the Rackham Arthritis Research Unit since
1964.
Dr. Distler earned his B.S. degree from Michigan State University in 1952, and
his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1954 and 1964,
respectively. He joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1964 as a research
associate in the Rackham Arthritis Research Unit in the Department of Internal
Medicine. From 1966-71 he also served as an instructor in the Department of
Biological Chemistry. In 1974, he was named assistant research scientist; he was
promoted to associate research scientist in 1977.
Dr. Distler is nationally and internationally recognized for his important
contributions to our understanding of the metabolism of protein-polysaccharide
complexes associated with connective tissue. He is recognized particularly for his
collaborative contributions that resulted in the now classical means for the chemical
synthesis of sugar nucleotides, and for his research that further defined the
mechanisms for the uptake and intracellular trafficking of lysosomal enzymes in
eucaryotic cells. Additionally, Dr. Distler has been instrumental in the development
of several analytical methods widely used for the specific and sensitive analysis of
carbohydrate components of connective tissue protein-polysaccharide complexes.
As a model of a conscientious and painstaking researcher, Jack Distler was
respected by graduate students and clinical trainees alike, both as a teacher and for his
insight and depth of knowledge. His opinions were actively sought out by his peers at
this and other institutions, and he has made significant contributions to the recognized
excellence of the scientific studies on connective tissue metabolism conducted by the
Rackham Arthritis Research Unit. The scientific community at the University of
Michigan has benefited greatly from his efforts.
The Regents now salute this productive investigator and teacher by naming Jack
J. Distler Associate Research Scientist Emeritus.
Avedis Donabedian, M.D., Nathan Sinai Distinguished Professor of Public
Health, will retire from active faculty status on June 30, 1989, after a distinguished
career as a scholar and teacher of medical care organization.
Dr. Donabedian received his B.A. and M.D. degrees from the American
University of Beirut in 1940 and 1944, respectively. In 1955, he received his M.P.H.
degree, magna cum laude, from Harvard University.
From 1945-54, Dr. Donabedian practiced medicine in Beirut as university
physician and director of the health service at the American University of Beirut.
After receiving his M.P.H. degree, he served as medical associate with United
Community Services of Metropolitan Boston and visiting lecturer at Harvard
University. He was appointed assistant professor of preventive medicine at New York
Medical College in 1957 and was promoted to associate professor in 1960. Dr.


-286 -



June Meeting, 1989


Donabedian came to the University of Michigan in 1961 as an associate professor of
medical care organization in the School of Public Health. He was promoted to
professor in 1964. In 1979, he was appointed Nathan Sinai Distinguished Professor of
Public Health in recognition of his many contributions to the school, the University,
and the field of medical care organization.
An outstanding scholar and teacher, Dr. Donabedian's former students serve as
directors or professors in more than fifteen university programs in health services
administration, and many others are on the faculties of departments of preventive and
family medicine. His major and pioneering contributions to the development of
systematic frameworks for understanding health service phenomena have established
him as one of the preeminent creative scholars in the field. His publications bring
clarity to broad, complex issues by drawing together the disparate contributions of
many disciplines and developing from them unifying concepts and models. Dr.
Donabedian was the originator and has been one of the two principal developers of
the Medical Care Chartbook. Currently in its eighth edition, this work has served as a
basic teaching tool in a large number of programs in health services administration.
Dr. Donabedian is an internationally recognized intellectual leader in the field
of health services organization. Several of his books and papers have been translated
into Spanish, and in the last few years, he has been the main speaker at several major
conferences on health care throughout Europe. Among his many honors and awards
are the Gold Medal Award from the Medical Alumni Association, American
University of Beirut and the Baxter American Foundation Health Services Research
Prize.
The Regents now recognize this distinguished scholar by naming Avedis
Donabedian Nathan Sinai Distinguished Professor Emeritus of Public Health.
Samuel D. Estep, professor of law, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
1989, after a dedicated career of teaching and research.
Born in Topeka, Kansas, Professor Estep received his A.B. degree from Kansas
State Teachers College in 1940. He then enrolled in the University of Michigan Law
School, where his studies were interrupted by service in the United States Navy. He
returned to the University of Michigan in 1945, and earned his J.D. degree in 1946.
For two years following graduation, he practiced law with a Detroit law firm.
Professor Estep joined the faculty of the University of Michigan Law School in 1948 as
an assistant professor; he was promoted to associate professor in 1951 and professor in
1954.
Professor Estep devoted his career to teaching in such diverse fields as
constitutional law, commercial law, and science and the law. His work as a scholar has
been devoted primarily to topics drawn from his interest in science and the law.
Together with Dean E. Blythe Stason and Professor William J. Pierce, he co-authored
the path-breaking book, Atoms and the Law. Earlier, the same team had published
State Regulation of Atomic Energy, and Professor Estep published many law review
articles on the legal problems that would emerge from the peacetime use of atomic
energy. Professor Estep also was one of the pioneers in the legal literature dealing
with space communications, and he has remained active in the broad field of science
and the law.
Over the years, Professor Estep also contributed to his profession, the
University, and outside constituencies by his active participation in committee work
and community projects. In 1973, he received the Distinguished Alumni Award from
Kansas State Teachers College. Professor Estep has been highly regarded by his
students as a fine, interesting, and gentle teacher; he has continually earned strong
marks in student course evaluations. In 1988, his final year as a full-time teacher, the


-287 -



June Meeting, 1989


Law School Student Senate recognized his contributions by awarding him the Francis
Allen Award.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator for his
dedicated service to the University by naming Samuel D. Estep Professor Emeritus of
Law.
John R. P. French, Jr., research scientist at the Research Center for Group
Dynamics and professor emeritus of psychology, retired from active faculty status on
June 30, 1982, after a very productive career as a teacher and a researcher.
A native of Boston, Professor French did his undergraduate work at Antioch
College between the years 1932-35, and at Black Mountain College in Black
Mountain, North Carolina, where he received his undergraduate degree in 1937. He
then proceeded to Harvard University, where he received his M.A. degree in 1939 and
his Ph.D. degree in 1940.
After graduating from Harvard, Professor French served for two years as an
instructor at Black Mountain College. He then moved on to carry out research under
Kurt Lewin at the Iowa Child Welfare Research Station at the State University of
Iowa. From 1943-48, he was the vice president in charge of training for the Nejelski
Company. He returned to academic and research work in 1947, joining Kurt Lewin,
the founder of the Research Center for Group Dynamics, which was then located at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. When the Research Center moved to the
University of Michigan in 1948, he, too, moved, and he has been associated with this
world-renowned institution ever since.
Professor French's dissertation is a classic in the field and has been cited very
widely; in it he observed the cohesion of groups under distress and in danger. Since
then, Professor French has continued to have a productive research career. For his
contributions to the field, in 1964 the National Institute for Mental Health awarded
him the coveted Research Center Award; he held this award continuously from 1964
until his retirement.
Professor French's other classic work, published in 1948, concerned the
influence of group decision. In this research, he was able to demonstrate how
resistance to change emergent in group situations may be overcome by various
decision processes. His work at that early stage laid the groundwork for the modern
movement of the participatory approach to management. He also made important
contributions in the field of power, leadership, and health behavior.
Professor French holds many honors, among them the presidency of the Society
of the Psychological Study of Social Issues.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar and educator for his
dedicated service by naming John R. P. French, Jr., Research Scientist Emeritus.
Lawrence T. Harbeck, associate research scientist, retired from active faculty
status on September 30, 1986, after a productive career as a researcher and provider
of service to the University of Michigan, state and federal governments, and industry.
A native of Illinois, Mr. Harbeck enrolled at the University of Michigan in 1942,
where he received his B.S. degree in chemical engineering in 1948 after serving as a
decorated combat infantryman with the United States Army in Europe in World War
II. He completed his M.B.A. degree through the University of Michigan Extension
Service in Detroit in 1954. From 1950-66, he was employed by Ford Motor Company
in the Detroit area, where he served as a manager of departments responsible for
product planning, marketing, business management, and company investments. After
serving as an independent consultant from 1966-74, he joined the University of
Michigan as an associate research scientist, first at the Industrial Development
Division (IDD) of the Institute of Science and Technology, and then at the Office for


-288 -



June Meeting, 1989


the Study of Automotive Transportation (OSAT) in the University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute. He continues as a part-time consultant to OSAT
and to the University Center Program (United States Economic Development
Administration). He is also assisting Professor David Lewis, of the School of Business
Administration, in researching and writing the history of the Ford Motor Company
since it became a public company in 1956.
While at OSAT, Mr. Harbeck directed, researched, and developed a biennial
Delphi research program that has become accepted as a basic planning tool by most of
the major manufacturers in the automotive industry. He was a research scholar on the
joint United States/Japanese automotive study, "The American and Japanese Auto
Industries in Transition" under the direction of Professors Paul McCracken, of the
University of Michigan, and Keichi Oshima, of the University of Tokyo. Mr. Harbeck
coordinated the University's multi-college interdisciplinary plan for the federal
government's Cooperative Automotive Research Program, and an intra-industry joint
automotive research project. He also developed a consortium guide for the College of
Engineering; researched, wrote, and published studies for scholarly journals, media
articles, and TV programs; and testified at congressional hearings. At IDD, he
represented the University at the Michigan Energy and Resource Association
(MERRA); authored the MERRA white paper on oil energy; researched and
published a definitive analysis of U.S. automotive aluminum consumption; and
researched and presented a hydrocarbon status report to Michigan's governor and
other state officials.
Mr. Harbeck's presentation to executive officers of Cargill Corporation and its
subsidiary, North Star Steel Company, of his research and report on the "Analysis of
Michigan as the Site for a Small Electric Mill to Recycle Scrap into Steel," resulted
directly in over $160 million in new industrial investment in Michigan and the creation
of over 1,000 new jobs.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Lawrence
T. Harbeck Associate Research Scientist Emeritus.
Roger E. Jacobi, professor of music, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
1989.
Professor Jacobi was born in Saginaw, and has offered his services to music and
to education in Michigan during his entire professional life. He received his B.Mus.
degree in 1948 and his M.Mus. degree in 1951, both from the University of Michigan.
He was associated with the Ann Arbor Public Schools as a teacher of music from
1948-56, and as music coordinator from 1959-68. During the summers of 1953-55, he
served as program director at the National Music Camp in Interlochen, Michigan, and
from 1956-59, was personnel director of the camp. He joined the faculty of the
University of Michigan in 1957 as a lecturer in the School of Music. He was promoted
to assistant professor in 1959, associate professor in 1963, and professor in 1966.
Between 1959 and 1968 he held dual positions with the University and the Ann Arbor
Public Schools; he served additionally as a lecturer in the School of Education from
1959-71. Professor Jacobi was appointed assistant dean and director of the University
Division of the National Music Camp in 1968. He was promoted to associate dean of
the School of Music in 1971, held the position briefly, and took up duties as president
of the Interlochen Center for the Arts in September, 1971, the position from which he
is now concurrently retiring.
While at the University of Michigan, Professor Jacobi served as chair of the
Midwestern Conference on School Vocal and Instrumental Music from 1957-70 and as
music consultant to the Bureau of School Services from 1959-71. He also played an
important role in determining equipment and usage of the new music building in the
early to mid 1960s, as the School of Music assembled in a fine new facility from 13


-289 -



June Meeting, 1989


former locations on central campus. He was active in the Michigan School Band and
Orchestra Association, Music Educators National Conference, and as a member
(1972-present) of the Michigan Alliance for Arts Education.
As president of the Interlochen Center for the Arts, Professor Jacobi has served
in a highly influential post important to the development of artistic talent of this
nation's youth.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Roger E.
Jacobi Professor Emeritus of Music.
Judy M. Judd, professor of nursing, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
1989, following a long and dedicated career in nursing education.
Professor Judd received her B.S.N. degree in nursing from the College of
Nursing at Marquette University in 1955 and her M.A. degree in maternity nursing
curriculum and teaching from Columbia University in 1958. Upon completion of the
baccalaureate degree, Professor Judd worked as a staff nurse member of the cardiac
bypass team in the operating room of St. Luke's Hospital in Milwaukee, and upon
completion of the master's degree, worked in maternity nursing at Cornell Medical
Center in New York.
In 1959, Professor Judd joined the faculty of the University of Michigan School
of Nursing. She was an instructor in maternity nursing from 1959-62. She was
promoted to assistant professor in 1962, associate professor with tenure in 1965, and
professor in 1971. During this time, Professor Judd assumed major responsibilities for
clinical and classroom instruction of undergraduate students in maternity nursing. In
1982, she became the coordinator of maternity nursing in the undergraduate program
and in this capacity was responsible for the conduct, both classroom and clinical, of the
course, "Nursing Care of the Childbearing Family."
Professor Judd has worked diligently to provide high quality education for
students in nursing, and has worked vigorously to see that the undergraduate
curriculum in maternity nursing provided the kind of instruction that would ensure the
delivery of excellent quality health services to maternity patients and their families.
She has been successful in both efforts. In addition, she has served most ably on
numerous committees in the School of Nursing and the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Judy M.
Judd Professor Emeritus of Nursing.
Robert L. Kahn, research scientist in the Institute for Social Research, professor
emeritus of psychology, and professor emeritus of health services management and
policy, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1988.
Professor Kahn received his B.A. degree in 1939, his M.A. degree in 1940, and
his Ph.D. degree in 1952, all from the University of Michigan. He was elected to Phi
Beta Kappa and to Sigma Xi, and received an honorary Ph.D. degree in social science
from the University of Amsterdam. His contributions to the University of Michigan
were recognized with the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award in 1985.
After joining the Institute for Social Research as a study director in 1948,
Professor Kahn remained at the University of Michigan for 40 years. He was
promoted to assistant program director in 1951, program director in 1952, and
research coordinator in 1961. He served as acting director of the Survey Research
Center in 1968-69, and as its director from 1970-76. In 1948, he was appointed
lecturer in the Department of Psychology; he was promoted to associate professor in
1954 and professor in 1960. He was appointed professor in the Department of
Medical Care Organization, now the Department of Health Services Management and
Policy, in 1980.
Professor Kahn is internationally renowned for his research on organizations


-290 -



June Meeting, 1989


and as a survey research methodologist. His Social Psychology of Organizations
(co-authored with Dan Katz), first published in 1966, redefined the field of
organizational psychology and inspired much research by other investigators. His own
empirical research on organizations is reported in several other books, including
Organizational Stress, Bureaucratic Encounters, The Study of Organizations, and Work
and Health. Professor Kahn is co-author (with Charles Cannell) of The Dynamics of
Interviewing, a volume recognized as a classic in the field of survey research
interviewing. He is also co-author (with Robert Groves) of Surveys by Telephone, the
first major book on telephone interviewing.
Professor Kahn's wisdom and broad expertise in the social sciences led to his
repeatedly being asked to serve in leadership roles. He was elected president of the
Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues and to the Council of
Representatives of the American Psychological Association. He has also served the
National Academy of Sciences, the President's Commission on Mental Health, the
Social Science Research Council, and the MacArthur Foundation, and has been on the
editorial board of a number of journals.
The Regents now salute this distinguished social scientist and teacher for his
dedicated service by naming Robert L. Kahn Research Scientist Emeritus.
Leslie Kish, research scientist at the Institute for Social Research and professor
emeritus of sociology, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1981, after a very
productive career as a scholar and teacher.
Born in Poprad, Hungary, in 1910, Professor Kish moved to the United States in
1926. He graduated from the City College of New York in 1939 with a B.S. degree in
mathematics. He received his M.A. degree in mathematics in 1948 and his Ph.D.
degree in sociology in 1952, both from the University of Michigan.
Professor Kish began his professional career with an appointment at the Bureau
of the Census in 1940. He served as a meteorologist in the Army Air Corps during
World War II and came to the University of Michigan in 1947 with the founding of the
Institute for Social Research. He was appointed associate professor of sociology in
1956 and was promoted to professor in 1960.
Professor Kish is extremely well-known for his popularizing the use of sampling
in the social sciences. Today, businesses and governments throughout the world make
decisions on the basis of information they gather from samples of the population. This
is a relatively recent phenomenon. Fifty years ago, sampling was used in agriculture
and, to a limited degree, in quality control, but the sampling of individuals for
purposes of obtaining information was extremely rare. The change in these decades is
attributable, in no small part, to Professor Kish's writings and teaching. He regularly
offered courses in survey sampling to numerous students and through the summer
program of the Institute for Social Research. Within the central statistical offices of
almost all nations, there are sampling experts who were trained at the University of
Michigan by Professor Kish. He is the author of the definitive work in this field,
Survey Sampling.
In 1975, Professor Kish was the recipient of the University of Michigan's
Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award. In 1977, he served as president of the
American Statistical Association. In 1978, he was elected a fellow of both the
American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences. In 1980, he became a fellow of the Royal Statistical Society, and in
1981, he delivered the Henry Russel Lecture at the University of Michigan.
The department, college, and students considered themselves very fortunate to
have had Professor Kish as a colleague and teacher for over 40 years.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar and teacher by naming Leslie
Kish Research Scientist Emeritus.


-291 -



June Meeting, 1989


Bert N. La Du, Jr., professor of pharmacology in the Medical School, will retire
from active faculty status on June 30, 1989, after an outstanding career as a teacher
and researcher.
A native of Michigan, Professor La Du received his B.S. degree in chemistry
from Michigan State University in 1943. He came to the University of Michigan as a
medical student, receiving his M.D. degree in 1945. He received his Ph.D. degree in
biochemistry from the University of California at Berkeley in 1952.
In 1950, as a young investigator at the Goldwater Memorial Laboratories, New
York University, and at the National Heart Institute, Professor La Du was an early
contributor to the modern era of drug metabolism. His pioneering work with Bernard
Brodie and Julius Axelrod, which advanced our understanding of the mechanisms of
the hepatic mixed function oxidase drug metabolizing systems by establishing their
co-factor requirement for NADPH, served to stimulate much metabolic investigation
in other laboratories.
From 1954-57, Professor La Du held the position of surgeon at the National
Heart Institute. In 1957, he went to the National Institute of Arthritis and Metabolic
Diseases, where he was promoted to medical director in 1961. In 1964, he became
professor and chair of the Department of Pharmacology at New York University
Medical School, where he remained until 1974. He then returned to the University of
Michigan to accept the position of professor and chair in the Department of
Pharmacology. In 1981, Professor La Du stepped down as chair in order to devote
more time to research.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated service by
naming Bert N. La Du, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology.
James C. Lingoes, associate research scientist at the Computing Center and
professor emeritus of psychology, retired from active faculty status on December 31,
1985.
Born in Boston, Massachusetts, Professor Lingoes received his A.B. degree in
1949 from the University of California at Berkeley following overseas service during
World War II. During a post-baccalaureate year of clinical training at the College of
the Pacific and for an ensuing six years, he held a variety of clinical and research
positions at medical and psychological facilities in the San Francisco Bay area. In
1957, he entered Michigan State University, where he completed his Ph.D. degree in
clinical psychology and quantitative methods in 1960.
Professor Lingoes joined the University of Michigan faculty that same year as
assistant professor of psychology and as research associate in the Computing Center.
This combination of affiliations continued until his retirement, with promotions to
associate professor and professor coming in 1964 and 1974, respectively, and to
associate research scientist in 1973. His rare combination of skills and expertise in
clinical diagnostic methods and in multivariate quantitative analysis was thus reflected
both in his university appointments and in his professional and scholarly activities
throughout his academic career.
Professor Lingoes provided invaluable assistance and consultation to literally
hundreds of students and colleagues, often personally writing needed subroutines or
adapting entire programs for their benefit. His own work in the area of non-metric
scaling of multivariate data and in the development of increasingly powerful versions
of his smallest-space analysis methods earned him world-wide recognition as a leading
authority in this burgeoning area of research methodology. Well over 100 articles,
invited presentations and book-length treatments served to inform social and
behavioral scientists around the globe of the most recent developments to emerge
from his work at the University of Michigan, as well as with collaborators elsewhere in
the states and abroad.


-292 -



June Meeting, 1989


The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming James C.
Lingoes Associate Research Scientist Emeritus.
Richard L. McKelvey, associate research editor of the Middle English Dictionary,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1983.
Mr. McKelvey received his B.A. degree from Colgate University in 1934 and his
M.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1938. He joined the University of
Michigan staff in 1944. During his 38 years of service, he rose from sub-editor of the
Middle English Dictionary to assistant editor to associate research editor and head of
production. His contributions were so numerous that it is impossible to do more than
summarize them and indicate briefly their importance to the Middle English Dictionary
and to the scholars in all parts of the world whom it endeavors to serve.
In 1946, there was no usable, up-to-date bibliography of the Middle English
texts which must form the basis of the dictionary. There was no reliable guide to the
dates of composition or the dates of the manuscripts in which the texts were preserved.
Older editing plans, developed when the Middle English Dictionary was envisaged as a
brief addendum to the Oxford English Dictionary, had to be discarded when it became
clear that the needs of serious scholars could be met only by a complete and
independent lexicon of Middle English. After many years of stagnation, the study of
Middle English underwent an astonishing revival in the years following World War II.
There was an explosion of new publications as neglected manuscripts were brought to
light and published, but no provision had been made for including the vocabulary of
these new sources of Middle English in the dictionary. In some instances, especially in
the case of scientific writings, the dictionary had to use photostats of the manuscripts,
which were difficult to read in the medieval scripts.
Mr. McKelvey played a significant role in the solution of each of these
problems. He was a member of the committee which, between 1946-52, prepared the
new bibliography, published in 1956. He was instrumental in developing the
dictionary's card file, in which all available information on dates, provenience, and
authorship of manuscripts was recorded and provision was made for the addition of
newer information as it became available. During most of his tenure on the dictionary
staff, he supervised the reading of new publications in Middle English, the selection of
quotations for use in the dictionary, and the filing of the new materials. He made
himself an expert in the reading of medieval hands, especially those of the 14th and
15th centuries. Last, but by no means least, he was responsible for the proofreading
and styling of the dictionary -- more than 8,000 pages, with 2 columns to the page and
72 lines to the column. Without these essential services, the Middle English Dictionary
could not have been published, and no one could have been more expert in providing
them than Richard L. McKelvey.
For 38 years, Mr. McKelvey served both the art and science of lexicography with
an unswerving devotion that few scholars in any field can match. In so doing, he
brought honor to the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished staff member by naming Richard L.
McKelvey Associate Research Editor Emeritus.
Helen L. Metzner, associate research scientist in the Department of
Epidemiology of the School of Public Health, retired from active status on June 30,
1986.
Ms. Metzner received her B.A. degree from Queens College in 1945 and her
M.A. degree from the University of Michigan in 1949. She joined the University of
Michigan staff in 1959 as a research assistant in the Department of Epidemiology. She
was promoted to research associate in 1961, assistant research scientist in 1973, and
associate research scientist in 1978.


-293 -



June Meeting, 1989


Ms. Metzner's affiliation with the Tecumseh Community Health Study produced
publications that reflect a deep and continuing interest in all the common risk factors
of the cardio-respiratory diseases. As a faculty member with responsibilities on
various committees related to the governance and mission of the department, she
participated fully in departmental and school affairs. She counseled faculty members
and students on the utilization of Tecumseh data and was always active in the
preparation of grant proposals and in the implementation of studies from design
through to publication. Ms. Metzner was a member of at least six professional
orgamzations whose activities were integral to her research interests; her contribution
was further enriched by directorships, presidential, and other appointments in an
equal number of civic organizations. These scientific and societal responsibilities
found full expression in the quality of her research, counseling and teaching.
Helen Metzner's career as a research scientist was characterized by selfless
dedication to whatever cause she espoused and by exemplary adherence to the highest
standards of ethics and principles of practice. Her attention to detail in study design
and analysis in the implementation of the various components of the Tecumseh
Community Health Study were always marked by sensitivity to the comfort, well-being
and dignity of the participants. The products of her research always exceeded her
colleague's expectations. Never satisfied with the merely adequate, no effort was too
great nor task too demanding to examine and re-examine results whose meaning might
not be readily apparent. It was this systematic probing and review that made her such
a valued member of the team and that earned her the respect and affection of
colleagues and students. Her retirement was only momentarily distinguished by a few
additional weeks' pause in a continuing cycle of review, analysis and publication. It is
altogether appropriate that a professional lifetime of service dedicated to the
betterment of health and improvement of the quality of life should now be recognized
by appointment to emeritus status.
The Regents now salute this distinguished staff member by naming Helen L.
Metzner Associate Research Scientist Emeritus.
William Mirsky, professor of mechanical engineering, retired from the
University of Michigan on May 31, 1989.
Professor Mirsky received his B.S.E. degree in 1944 from the University of
Connecticut. After receiving his degree, he served with the United States Army Corps
of Engineers as an instrument engineer until 1946, when he joined Westinghouse
Corporation as an associate engineer. He pursued his graduate studies at the
University of Michigan, earning his M.S.E. degree in 1951 and his Ph.D. degree in
1956. During that time, he shared his experience and knowledge with other students
by working as a teaching fellow and as an instructor in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering. Professor Mirsky was appointed as an assistant professor in 1956. He
was promoted to associate professor in 1958 and professor in 1964. He has served the
department as chair of the mechanical engineering advisory committee, acting head of
the Walter E. Lay Automotive Laboratory, and on the ad hoc thermo-science faculty
search committee.
Professor Mirsky's research interests lie in the study of gas turbine and diesel
engine combustion, automotive and aircraft emissions, air pollution control, and
alternative mobile power sources. Over his career, his expertise in combustion and
emissions has been sought by the Environmental Protection Agency, the Federal
Aviation Administration, the United States Public Health Service, and industry. His
knowledge and experience have also been recognized by a number of professional
organizations. He has served on the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) E-31
Committee on Aircraft Emissions and is also a member of SAE, the Combustion


-294 -



June Meeting, 1989


Institute, Sigma Xi, and Phi Kappa Phi. Professor Mirsky is also an associate member
of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
Professor Mirsky's interest in engineering education has been shown by his
revision and updating of undergraduate courses as well as his interest in setting on-line
computers for automotive testing in course work and research. In addition, he has
participated in many engineering summer conferences for continuing education and
chaired the Career Information Material Development subcommittee of the SAE
Engineering Education Activity. Professor Mirsky is well-known for his many
contributions to the research and academic community.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his many years of
service by naming William Mirsky Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering.
James O'Day, research engineer and interim director of the University of
Michigan Transportation Research Institute, retired from active faculty status on May
30, 1985, after a highly productive career as a researcher and administrator.
Mr. O'Day received his A.B. degree in English from Gettysburg College in 1947
and his M.S. degree in physics from the University of Pittsburgh in 1951. While at the
University of Pittsburgh, he was a research assistant and a lecturer in the physics
department. He came to the University of Michigan in 1951 as a research associate at
the Willow Run Laboratories. As an associate research engineer from 1954-56, he
served as a senior project representative for Project Michigan contracts with the
United States Army at Fort Monroe, Virginia, and at Fort Ord, California. In 1956,
Jim O'Day was promoted to a research engineer and became head of the Navigation
and Controls Systems Laboratory, which became a unit of the Institute of Science and
Technology. His areas of research and design over this period of time included x-ray
diffraction and machine design, industrial radiography, electronics system design,
low-frequency radio propagation, and navigation systems analysis, design and
evaluation.
In 1966, Jim O'Day joined the newly formed Highway Safety Research Institute
(later to become the Transportation Research Institute) as a research scientist and as
head of the Systems Analysis Division. His research interests in vehicle safety
involved the development of large public files of traffic data, the computer systems for
storing and analyzing such data, and the design of accident investigation systems,
including the National Accident Sampling System (NASS). In 1976, he took a year's
leave from the University to serve as a consultant to the Australian Road Safety and
Standards Authority. In November 1983, Jim O'Day was appointed acting associate
director of the institute, and in April 1984, he was named interim director, a position
that he held until his retirement in May 1985.
Jim O'Day's unique contributions to the field of traffic safety involved the
application of emerging computer and systems technology and the utilization of
statistically sound analysis in addressing one of the nation's largest causes of death and
injury. His desire for rigorous research prior to recommendations of public policy
solutions served the state and nation during this period of rapid change in the nation's
response to the traffic safety problem. His studies helped those formulating the
nation's traffic safety policy select courses of action based on reliable facts developed
through research and analysis.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming James O'Day Research
Engineer Emeritus.
Louis L. Orlin, professor of ancient near eastern history and literature, retired
from active faculty status on May 31, 1989, after a productive career as a teacher and
researcher.
A native of Bayonne, New Jersey, Professor Orlin received his B.A., M.A., and


-295 -



June Meeting, 1989


Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1949, 1950, and 1960, respectively.
Upon graduation, he became an assistant professor and was promoted to associate
professor in 1965. Soon after spending a productive year as a visiting lecturer at
Cambridge University in England, he was promoted to professor in 1970.
Professor Orlin's research on the political, economic, and intellectual history of
the ancient Near East has made him one of the outstanding leaders in the field of
Assyriology. Particularly important was his book, Assyrian Colonies in Cappadocia,
published in 1970, which remains to this day one of the basic books on the subject.
Equally important are his articles on a wide range of subjects, including many
contributions to encyclopedias, an indication of his dedication to the popularization of
knowledge to the wider public.
Professor Orlin is a dedicated and gifted teacher. He was equally at home
teaching graduate and undergraduate students, and his instructional efforts were
recognized when he received the E. Harris Harbison Award for Distinguished
Teaching of the Danforth Foundation.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator and humanist for his
dedicated service by naming Louis L. Orlin Professor Emeritus of Ancient Near
Eastern History and Literature.
Donald C. Pelz, research scientist in the Institute for Social Research and
professor emeritus of psychology, retired from active faculty status on April 30, 1987.
Professor Pelz received his B.A. degree from Swarthmore College in 1942, his
M.A. degree from State University of Iowa in 1944, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1952.
A member of the Institute for Social Research for almost forty years, Professor
Pelz joined the Institute in 1948, soon after it was founded, as an assistant study
director in the Survey Research Center. He was promoted to study director in 1950,
assistant program director in 1957, and program director in 1960. He joined ISR's
Center for Research on Utilization of Scientific Knowledge and served as its director
from 1974-79. In 1962, he was appointed associate professor of psychology; he was
promoted to professor in 1967.
Professor Pelz's most widely cited research focuses on productive climates for
research and development in university, industrial, and government laboratories.
Over a span of 20 years, from 1956-76, he published a series of books and articles on
social factors related to scientific performance which attracted wide acclaim. A major
book, Scientists in Organizations (co-authored with F. Andrews), has been translated
into Russian and Japanese and has been designated a "citation classic" by the Institute
of Scientific Information because of the frequency with which it has been cited by
other authors.
A person with broad research interests, Professor Pelz has conducted other
investigations that address social and motivational factors related to the high
automobile crash rate for young male drivers, the process by which organizations
identify and implement potentially useful innovations, administration of agricultural
development, and methods by which social data from multiple points in time can be
analyzed to identify causal priorities.
The Regents now salute this distinguished social scientist for his dedicated
service by naming Donald C. Pelz Research Scientist Emeritus.
William J. Pierce, professor of law, retired from active faculty status on May 31,
1989, after a distinguished career of teaching, research, and administration.
A native of Flint, Professor Pierce received his A.B. and J.D. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1947 and 1949, respectively. Following graduation, he


-296 -



June Meeting, 1989


worked with the New York Law Revision Commission, the Office of the United States
Senate Legislative Counsel, and the Governor's Study Commission in Michigan.
Professor Pierce began his career at the University of Michigan Law School in
1951 as an assistant professor of law and assistant director of the Legislative Research
Center. He was promoted to associate professor and associate director of the
Legislative Research Center in 1954 and professor and director of the center in 1957.
He served as associate dean from 1971-79.
In the field of legislation, Professor Pierce's work has been unparalleled, both in
the sphere of scholarship and in the real world of legislative drafting. He has served
on countless committees, commissions, and advisory groups, including having served as
chair of the Juvenile Court Citizen's Advisory Committee, executive secretary of the
Michigan Law Revision Commission, president and executive director of the National
Conference of Commissioners of Uniform State Laws, and chair of the American
Statutory Law Committee of the American Bar Foundation. Professor Pierce is also a
co-author of the highly successful textbook, Materials on Legislation.
In addition to these outstanding accomplishments in the field of legislation,
Professor Pierce has been in the forefront of newly emerging areas of law, as
witnessed by his co-authored books, Atoms and the Law and Apportionment and
Representative Institutions: The Michigan Experience. He also found time to serve on
many committees in the Law School and the University, and he undertook a major
share of the responsibility for planning the addition to the Law Library when he was
associate dean. In 1989, the Law School Student Senate recognized Professor Pierce
by awarding him the Francis Allen Award for outstanding contributions to legal
education at the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this accomplished scholar and educator for his
dedicated service to the University by naming William J. Pierce Professor Emeritus of
Law.
Ralph R. Rupp, professor of education and audiology in the School of
Education and professor of communication in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1989, after 24 years of service to
the University of Michigan.
Born in Saginaw, Professor Rupp received his B.A. degree in 1951 and his M.A.
degree in 1952, both from the University of Michigan. Before obtaining his Ph.D.
degree in audiology from Wayne State University in 1964, Professor Rupp worked for
the Detroit Public Schools and at Shady Trails Camp. He also served as executive
director of the Detroit Hearing and Speech Center and worked in the Department of
Otolaryngology at Henry Ford Hospital. Professor Rupp is one of few scholars who
holds the Certificate of Clinical Competence from the American
Speech-Language-Hearing Association in both audiology and speech-language
pathology. He also has received the distinguished honor of Fellow from his national
organization, and has been awarded the Honors of the Michigan Speech and Hearing
Association and that organization's Distinguished Service Award. Professor Rupp has
been listed in Who's Who in America for the last 15 years.
During his tenure at the University, Professor Rupp started the M.A. training
program in audiology. A dedicated instructor, he consistently received the highest
ratings in the speech and hearing sciences program for his exemplary teaching.
Professor Rupp was nominated twice by students for the Amoco Good Teaching
Award.
Professor Rupp has made outstanding contributions to the body of knowledge in
hearing and hearing disorders. He published two textbooks in audiology: Hearing and
Aging: Tactics for Intervention (with J. Maurer) and Speech Protocols in Audiology
(with K. Stockdell). In addition to serving as editor for the Journal of Rehabilitative
-297 -



June Meeting, 1989


Audiology and the Journal of the Michigan Speech-Language-Hearing Association,
Professor Rupp published many articles in professional journals. His article, "A
Feasibility Scale for Language Acquisition Routing for Hearing Impaired Children,"
was given the Outstanding Clinical Article ward in 1973 by the nid editorial staff of the
Journal for Language, Speech and Hearing Services in Schools. Professor Rupp has
received national recognition for developing an auditory processing battery useful for
identifying and treating children with auditory attention deficit, which is a major
problem associated with attention and learning disabilities in children. His pioneering
research describing the hazards of loud music on hearing acuity stimulated a host of
scientific inquiries in that area. Many of Professor Rupp's publications have focused
on the hearing problems of senior citizens; for example, his feasibility scales for
hearing aid use help to identify prospective hearing aid candidates. Professor Rupp
has devoted almost 40 years to exploring new ways to help children, adults, and senior
citizens with speech and hearing impairments improve their communication abilities.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Ralph R.
Rupp Professor Emeritus of Education and Audiology and Professor Emeritus of
Communication.
Robert E. Scott, research engineer at the University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute, retired from active faculty status on January 20, 1984, after a
productive and varied career of nearly 30 years.
A native of Michigan, Mr. Scott received his B.S.E.E. and M.S.E.E. degrees
from the University of Michigan in 1953 and 1958, respectively. Following work with
the Sparton Radio and Television Company in Jackson, he served in the United States
Army for two years.
Mr. Scott started his career at the University of Michigan's Willow Run
Laboratories in 1955. His work at the laboratories focused on the application of
radio-based systems to the navigation of military and commercial aircraft. His
original research in this field led to a consultancy with the National Academy of
Sciences.
In 1970, Mr. Scott joined the Highway Safety Research Institute (later to
become the Transportation Research Institute) as a research engineer. In this
capacity, he served as principal investigator on many projects related to the
application of analytic techniques to traffic safety issues, the design of experiments,
and accident data collection programs.
Mr. Scott led the University's evaluation of publicly supported ambulance
services in the City of Detroit, resulting in improved service for the city. In a study for
the National Academy of Sciences, his analysis of accidents related to highway
geometric design parameters and pavement surface characteristics contributed to
recommendations for modifying highway design standards. His pioneering application
of probability-based sampling methods for in-depth collision investigation programs
became the model for the national evaluation of ignition interlock systems in 1974,
and for subsequent national programs of crash investigation. These programs were an
important part of the nation's effort to improve vehicular safety.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Robert E.
Scott Research Engineer Emeritus.
Stanley E. Seashore, research scientist in the Institute for Social Research and
professor emeritus of psychology, retired from active faculty status on September 30,
1983, after a noteworthy career as a teacher, researcher, and administrator.
Professor Seashore received his B.A. degree in economics from the University
of Iowa in 1937, his M.A. degree in anthropology from the University of Minnesota in
1939, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in 1954. For the next 11


-298 -



June Meeting, 1989


years, he was employed in the private sector, first with a major steel corporation and
then with a prominent management consulting firm, where he became increasingly
concerned with organizational policies, structures, and change.
In 1950, Professor Seashore made a proactive career decision: he enrolled in a
doctoral program conducted jointly by the Departments of Psychology and Sociology
at the University of Michigan, and took a part-time assignment as a research assistant
in the Institute for Social Research's Survey Research Center. Professor Seashore had
intended to return to the private sector when he had completed his studies at
Michigan. However, he was asked to stay on at the University. He served successively
at the Institute for Social Research as assistant study director, study director, assistant
to the director of the Institute for Social Research, assistant director, and coordinator
of the organizational behavior program. He retired as a program director in the
Institute's Survey Research Center.
Professor Seashore began his post-doctoral career in the Department of
Psychology when a small cluster of graduate students wanted to specialize in the social
psychology of formal organizations and a resident cluster of qualified faculty were
doing research in that area. Thus, the Michigan doctoral program in organizational
psychology very naturally evolved; Professor Seashore served as chair of that program.
He served successively in the Department of Psychology as lecturer, assistant
professor, associate professor, and professor.
Professor Seashore was actively involved in the affairs of the American
Psychological Association, serving on various committees and holding elected offices.
His publications include four books and more than one hundred technical and
theoretical articles, chapters, and research reports.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator, researcher, and
administrator for his dedicated service by naming Stanley E. Seashore Research
Scientist Emeritus.
Leonard Segel, research engineer in the University of Michigan Transportation
Research Institute and professor emeritus of mechanical engineering and applied
mechanics, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 1987, after a highly productive
career as a researcher and administrator.
A native of Cincinnati, Ohio, Professor Segel received his B.S. degree in
engineering from the University of Cincinnati in 1947. From 1943-46, he served in the
United States Naval Reserve as a Lieutenant jg. In 1947, he joined the Cornell
Aeronautical Laboratory, Inc. (CAL) as a research engineer, where he began his
research involving the mechanics of vehicles. In 1953, he received his M.S. degree in
engineering at State University of New York at Buffalo. Between 1955-66, Professor
Segel continued his work at CAL, where he received world-wide recognition for his
studies of stability and control of highway vehicles.
Professor Segel joined the faculty of the University of Michigan in 1967 as a
research engineer at the Highway Safety Research Institute (later to become the
Transportation Research Institute), and as a lecturer in the Mechanical Engineering
Department of the College of Engineering. As head of the Physical Factors Division,
he developed a research staff, research laboratory, and program of research in the
areas of automotive stability and control and the car/road interface. This group,
which later became the UMTRI Engineering Research Division, flourished under
Professor Segel's direction, and it became an expert source of understanding regarding
the influences of physical elements on the safety performance of highway transport
systems. His publishing and teaching resulted in advancement in the College of
Engineering, where he was promoted to professor in 1976. Professor Segel's
publications and lectures brought him international recognition in the field of vehicle
dynamics, resulting in numerous honors and invitations to speak, consult, occupy


-299 -



June Meeting, 1989


visiting faculty chairs, and to serve on industry and government task forces and
commissions. On several occasions, Professor Segel served the institute as acting
director.
Professor Segel produced a number of the most referenced papers in the field of
vehicle dynamics. He is highly regarded by his colleagues for his ability to
discriminate among ideas worthy of theoretical and experimental pursuit, and for
knowing when to quit and when to pursue. Professor Segel founded a summer course
on the mechanics of heavy-duty trucks and truck combinations, which continues with
success today. In retirement, he currently serves as president of the International
Association for Vehicle Systems Dynamics.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Leonard
Segel Research Engineer Emeritus.
Ernest E. Sellers, research engineer in the Institute of Science and Technology,
retired from active status on February 28, 1985, after 33 years of service.
Mr. Sellers received his B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from
Kansas State University in 1948 and 1949, respectively. He worked at the RCA
Laboratories and at Texas Instruments, and taught electrical engineering at Kansas
State University.
Mr. Sellers became associated with the University of Michigan in June 1952 as a
research associate at the Willow Run Laboratories. In September 1957, he was
appointed a research engineer at the Institute of Science and Technology (IST), where
he worked in radar, radio astronomy, and biomedical engineering. He was the author
of many reports.
As a faculty member, Mr. Seller's unique achievements included the
development of a potentially lifesaving technique to easily detect heart damage
through three-dimensional cardiographic display. In his method, the voltages obtained
from the precordial leads are presented in a three-dimensional form rather than the
conventional two-dimensional method. The distinctive patterns produced by certain
abnormalities are more easily recognizable in a single pictorial display than in the
multiple leads of the conventional ECG tracing.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Ernest E.
Sellers Research Engineer Emeritus.
Ann Shannon, associate research editor of the Middle English Dictionary, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 1988.
The major portion of Dr. Shannon's scholarly career was associated with the
University of Michigan, where she received her B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees in 1951,
1953, and 1962, respectively. She began work on the Middle English Dictionary while
still a graduate student, leaving in 1959 to accept a teaching position at the University
of Kansas, and later at Roosevelt University. But she had always maintained a deep
interest in the dictionary and had a particular affection for it, and when the Mellon
Foundation awarded the project a large grant in 1975 to expand the staff, she applied
for and received an appointment as assistant research editor. She was promoted to
associate research editor in 1979 and retired in 1988 to her childhood home in
Traverse City.
Dr. Shannon viewed her return to the Middle English Dictionary as a challenging
opportunity to contribute to one of the most important humanistic scholarly
undertakings of this century. Her Michigan training with the giants of the fifties --
Fries, Marckwardt, Kurath, Kuhn, and Penzl, among others -- gave her a broad
knowledge of the field, and her considerable philological skills were recognized and
often tapped by her colleagues. As a senior editor, she undertook the editing of a
number of the longer and more difficult words and instructed junior editors in the art


-300 -



June Meeting, 1989


of lexicography. She also served as a valuable resource for other editors, both for her
interpretations of difficult Old and Middle English passages and for her knowledge of
Germanic philology.
Dr. Shannon's entries in the dictionary are clear and crisp, displaying a careful
attention to detail, and she herself was a hard-working, dependable editor who tried to
exemplify Nietzsche's observation that "Philology... demands one thing above all...
to execute nothing but fine delicate work." In so doing, she made a significant
contribution to the furthering of the Middle English Dictionary and thus to the worth
and reputation of the University of Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Ann
Shannon Associate Research Editor Emeritus.
Richard G. Snyder, research scientist in the University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute and professor emeritus of anthropology, retired
from active faculty status on November 11, 1985, after 17 years of service.
Professor Snyder received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from the University
of Arizona in 1956, 1957, and 1958, respectively. Prior to coming to the University of
Michigan, he directed research laboratories and departments at the Federal Aviation
Association's Civil Aeromedical Research Institute in Oklahoma City, Ford Motor
Company in Dearborn, and held appointments at Arizona, Oklahoma, Chicago, and
Michigan State Universities.
At the University of Michigan, Professor Snyder served as head of the
biomedical department at the Highway Safety Research Institute (later to become the
Transportation Research Institute). He shared a joint appointment with the
Department of Anthropology, where he pioneered forensic anthropology courses.
More recently, he organized and, since June 1984 has directed, the NASA Center of
Excellence. This program, established with a five million dollar grant, involves faculty
of eight departments of the University and awards NASA research fellowships to
exceptional graduate students preparing for aerospace careers.
The author of over 400 scientific publications, Professor Snyder has received
international recognition for his safety research in human crash protection,
particularly in aviation, including awards from the Aerospace Medical Association,
Society of Automotive Engineers, Flight Safety Foundation, and National Safety
Council. He is a diplomate of the American Board of Forensic Anthropology, and is a
fellow of the Aerospace Medical Association, the American Anthropological
Association, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the
American Academy of Forensic Sciences, the Explorers Club, and associate fellow of
the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. He has served as a United
States member of the NATO/AGARD aerospace medical panel and on numerous
other governmental and scientific organizations. During the past year, he was a
member of the National Academy of Science Committee on Trauma Research which
resulted in the book Injury in America, a report to Congress.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist by naming Richard G.
Snyder Research Scientist Emeritus.
Alvin F. Zander, research scientist in the Institute for Social Research, professor
emeritus of educational psychology, and professor emeritus of psychology, retired from
active faculty status on April 30, 1981, after a noteworthy career as a teacher,
researcher, and administrator.
Professor Zander received his B.S., M.S.P.H., and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1936, 1937, and 1941, respectively. He did postdoctoral
work at both the University of Chicago and the University of Iowa. Professor Zander
joined the Research Center for Group Dynamics in the Institute for Social Research


-301 -



June Meeting, 1989


as a program director in 1948; he served as its director from 1975-78.
During his long career, his research focused primarily on the properties of
groups. His program of laboratory experiments and field studies of work groups,
executive boards, and business departments examined the nature of group goals, how
they are chosen, and how they influence group performance. These studies
culminated in his definitive book, Motives and Goals in Groups (1971). His best known
book, edited jointly with Professor Dorwin Cartwright, is the text Group Dynamics:
Research and Theory.
Throughout his career at the University of Michigan, Professor Zander was
associated with the School of Education. He was a lecturer in the school while
working on his Ph.D., and after World War II he was appointed assistant professor of
educational psychology. He was promoted to associate professor in 1950 and to
professor in 1957. His work in the School of Education concentrated on the
application of the theory of group dynamics to educational settings. His course, "The
Social Psychology of Administration," served as a vehicle for the dissemination of his
ideas among public school leaders. He acquired national recognition for his approach
to the problems of leadership and group procedures.
In the Department of Psychology, Professor Zander functioned both as a valued
teacher and citizen of the University community, serving on several important
University committees and offering the course, "Introduction to Group Dynamics."
This course was a model for integrating the content and experience of group
processes, since he conducted the class in a way which modeled the points he wished
to make. He also taught in the Psychology Honors Program.
In 1973, Professor Zander was appointed assistant vice-president for research
and in 1975, he was promoted to associate vice-president for research, a position he
held until 1980. In this capacity, he chaired the faculty committee which prepared the
report that was largely responsible for setting the policy for the future of recombinant
DNA research on campus. The scope of his duties and responsibilities is too broad for
enumeration here, but his skill in carrying them out, his cooperative spirit, and his
wisdom are gratefully recognized.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator, researcher, and
administrator for his dedicated service by naming Alvin F. Zander Research Scientist
Emeritus.
Degrees
The Regents were then asked to approve amendments to previously approved
degree lists, and to confirm the degrees that had been granted at the May, 1989
commencement.
Regent Nielsen moved to approve the degrees. Regent Smith seconded the
motion, "with enthusiasm," because her son, Glenn Laurence, had graduated from Law
School. "This is our family's twelfth degree from the University of Michigan," she said,
"and we are really celebrating."
Regent Nielsen withdrew his motion to allow Regent Smith to move the
enthusiastic approval of the degrees. Regent Nielsen then seconded the motion, and it
was approved unanimously.
Authorization for Expenditures in 1989-90
The Regents unanimously approved temporary actions for expenditures in
1989-90.


-302 -



June Meeting, 1989


Expenditure of the Income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 1989-90
Regent Power moved, and Regent Nielsen seconded, that the Regents approved
the uses of the income of the Wolfson Endowment Funds as recommended by the Law
faculty.
Regent Roach asked for a report on the Wolfson funds and other Law School
funds that would describe the funds' major purpose and the degree of flexibility
allowed in their expenditure. The goal would be to see whether any of the Law School
funds could be used to replace the aluminum siding on the Legal Research Building.
Regent Roach moved to table the motion for one month to determine whether any
Law School funds could be used for this. Regent Power seconded the motion, and it
was adopted.
Intercollegiate Athletics Sports Service Building
The Regents received information about the award of bids for construction of
the Intercollegiate Athletics Sports Service Building. (The Regents had authorized
award of the contract to the low bidders at the May, 1989 meeting.) The low bids for
this project were received from Spence Brothers, Inc., Milan Plumbing and Heating,
Inc., and A. F. Smith & Sons, Inc. Vice President Womack reported that because the
Athletic Department has not yet achieved its total fundraising goal of $12 million,
present budget commitments are being limited to $10.5 million. The additional items
are being deferred pending the remaining fundraising and will be added only with the
approval of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Amendment of Resolution Authorizing Issuance of Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue
Bonds Series 1987
Vice President Womack explained that the purpose of this amendment is to
clarify the definition of "Credit Support Instrument" used in connection with the
issuance of variable rate demand obligations. The amendment would allow the
University to purchase tendered bonds from sources of funds other than adjusted gross
athletic revenues.
On a motion by Regent Nielsen, seconded by Regent Waters, the Regents voted
unanimously to approve the following resolution providing for the amendment of the
prior resolution to clarify the definition of "Credit Support Instrument", as described in
the Regents Communication.
Resolution of the Regents of the University of Michigan Amending
Resolution Authorizing the Issuance and Sale of Not to Exceed $6,500,000
Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds Series 1987,
Adopted April 16, 1987
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") did, on April 16, 1987 adopt
its Resolution Authorizing Issuance and Sale of Not To Exceed $6,500,000 Intercollegiate Athletic
Revenue Bonds, Series 1987 (the "Prior Resolution"), pursuant to which the Issuer issued $6,285,000
Regents of the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1987 (the "1987
Bonds"); and
WHEREAS, the Prior Resolution contains a definition of "Credit Support Instrument" as follows:


-303 -



June Meeting, 1989


"Credit Support Instrument" shall mean an irrevocable letter of credit, line of credit,
insurance policy, bond purchase agreement, guaranty or surety bond providing for the
payment of, or guaranteeing the payment of principal and interest on, the purchase
price of Parity Obligations when due."
and
WHEREAS, the Prior Resolution provides that the Issuer may adopt resolutions supplemental to
the prior Resolution, without notice to or consent of the holder of of the 1987 Bonds, as shall not be
inconsistent with the ters of the Prior Resolution and wc  in the r  good faith judgment of the Issuer,
are not materially adverse to the holders of the 1987 Bonds, for, among others, the purpose of curing any
ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the Prior Resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined that the foregoing definition of "Credit Support
Instrument" is ambiguous in that it is unclear whether the phrase "bond purchase agreement" therein
includes an agreement or covenant on the part of the Issuer to purchase tendered Parity Obligations
from sources of funds other than Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues (as defined in the Prior Resolution);
and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined that it is in the best interest of the Issuer and of the holders
of the 1987 Bonds, to supplement the Prior Resolution by amending the definition of "Credit Support
Instrument" as provided herein in order to cure the ambiguity therein described above:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Regents of the University of Michigan, as
follows:
1. The Issuer hereby determines that the amendment to the Prior Resolution contained herein is
not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of the Prior Resolution and further determines,
in its good faith judgment, that such amendment is not materially adverse to the holders of the
1987 Bonds.
2. The definition of the term "Credit Support Instrument" contained in Article I of the Prior
Resolution is hereby amended to read, in its entirety, as follows:
"Credit Support Instrument" shall mean an irrevocable letter of credit, line of credit,
insurance policy, bond purchase agreement (including a covenant by the Issuer to
purchase tendered bonds from sources of funds other than Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues), guaranty or surety bond providing for the payment of, or guaranteeing
the payment of, principal of and interest on, or the purchase price of, Parity
Obligations when due."
3. This Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.
4. All resolutions or part of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in conflict herewith be
and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Financing for University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletics Sports Service Building
The Regents were next asked to approve a resolution authorizing the issuance,
sale, and delivery of variable rate demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds,
Series 1989.
In response to a question from Regent Baker, Vice President Womack stated
that the bonds are secured and payable from the adjusted gross athletic revenues of
the University's intercollegiate athletic program as the first order, and as the second
order, the bonds are secured and payable from "legally available funds", which could
include student fees.
Regent Baker asked Vice President Womack to try to exclude the sentence that
makes the bonds payable from legally available funds. Vice President Womack
responded that he would attempt to do that.


-304 -



June Meeting, 1989


Following further discussion, Regent Brown moved, Regent Waters seconded,
and the Regents unanimously approved adoption of a resolution authorizing the
issuance, sale and delivery of the not to exceed $8,800,000 Variable Rate Demand
Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1989 and the execution of the Bond
Purchase Agreement, Remarketing Agreement and other documentation relating to
the Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1989. A
copy of the resolution is available in the office of the Secretary of the University and is
incorporated as an Appendix to these Proceedings.
Supplemental Information to the Certified Audited Financial Report of the Board in
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan for the Year Ended
June 30, 1988
The Regents received supplemental information to the certified audited
financial report of the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University
of Michigan for the year ended June 30, 1988. The supplemental information is based
on the National Collegiate Athletic Association's NCAA Financial Audit Guidelines
requirements and is contained within an accountant's letter, less than a certified audit.
Maintenance and Renovation Projects
On a motion by Regent Smith, seconded by Regent Nielsen, the Regents
approved the following projects: Renovations to Rooms 411 and 414 in the West
Engineering Building; Renovations for National Institute of Health AIDS
Infrastructure Grant; Crisler Arena Roof Replacement; and UM-Hospitals
Renovation for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Offices.
Proposed Lease Agreement for Rental of University Property Between the University
of Michigan and University Employees (The Child Care Connection, Inc.)
Regent Roach moved, and Regent Brown seconded, that the Regents authorize
the University to enter into a lease agreement with The Child Care Connection, Inc.
for rental of the University-owned home at 1010 Cedar Bend Drive.
Regent Power expressed concern that the Regents not approve this proposal in
the absence of an overall University policy regarding child care.
Ms. Colleen Dolan-Green, Assistant Vice President for Academic AffairsPersonnel, was present and responded that the April Personnel Labor Relations
Report had described a number of initiatives related to the issue of dependent care.
These initiatives had come about as the result of the work of a Dependent Care Task
Force. One of the Task Force's recommendations had been that the University should
contribute to the support of on-site child care if those needs are not being met in the
community. Another recommendation was the establishment of a dependent care
resource and referral program.
The Regents asked a number of questions about the arrangements for the
proposed use of the University-owned home as a day care center. Regent Power
reiterated that the Regents should not act on this specific child care issue in a "policy
vacuum" on child care. Regent Nielsen pointed out the effect that a child care center
might have on the neighborhood in which it is located.
President Duderstadt emphasized that the University is not operating in a policy


-305 -



June Meeting, 1989


vacuum with respect to child care. The University's policy is that it will rely on
community resources unless there is a unique situation. This particular issue was
brought to the Regents only because the University owned the house being sought for
use as a child care center; it does not really relate to the University's child care policy,
which is being addressed in other forums.
Ms. Roxana Block, one of the incorporators of The Child Care Connection, was
present and responded to specific questions from the Regents about the proposed use
of the University property. Regent Nielsen said that he wanted assurance that the
neighbors were in agreement about the use of the property as a child care center.
Regent Varner inquired about whether the University would be protected from
liability in the event of legal action against the corporation. Regent Roach stated that
he would not want to approve the action without knowing the terms of the lease and of
other agreements with Child Care Connection.
Following further discussion about the specifics of the proposed arrangement,
the Regents took a brief recess. When they returned to the meeting, Regent Roach
moved to table the motion authorizing the University to enter into a lease agreement
with University employees, saying that the Regents had not been adequately informed
about the terms and conditions of the agreement. Regent Baker complimented the
members of the corporation for their ingenuity in taking the initiative on this issue.
He noted that his primary concern is that the University needs to be protected from
any risks that are involved in child care. He then seconded the motion to table; it
passed unanimously.
Regent Varner commented that she agreed with Regent Power that there needs
to be some kind of policy position on child care. She feels there is a need in the
community for child care, and the Regents need to have a context in which to make
decisions related to this issue.
Regent Power complimented the people involved in the development of the
child care enterprise under discussion. He then noted that he had been incorrect in
his previous assertion that there was a policy vacuum in the area of child care. He was
now convinced that there are "a lot of people who have spent a lot of time working on
a policy". He expressed the hope that the policy could be brought forward so that the
Regents could come to closure as a policy-making body about this issue.
President Duderstadt emphasized his understanding that the concerns that had
been raised in this discussion were related to this particular action item, and that the
Board remained committed to addressing the needs for dependent care in the
University community. "The University is deeply concerned about dependent care," he
continued. "We believe that it is absolutely essential to the future of this university."
It is important to recognize that there will not be a single policy, but that requirements
of institutions will change as the nature of the population and workforce changes. A
number of groups around the University are working to develop further
recommendations, which will lead to a sequence of proposals, some of which will be
management decisions and some of which will require Board action. President
Duderstadt concluded by repeating his assertion that "dependent care is a very
important issue to the future of this institution."
Ingalls Mall
The Regents then turned to consideration of completion of the next phase of


-306 -



June Meeting, 1989


implementation of the plan for Ingalls Mall. Mr. Jim Christman, from Johnson,
Johnson, and Roy, gave a presentation on this project, which involves doing the
remaining work required to complete the mall between Washington and North
University Streets. It is hoped that the project will be completed by September, 1989.
Following the presentation, the Regents discussed details of the plan with Mr.
Christman and with University officials involved in the project. Regent Brown then
moved approval of the $500,000 project budget; Regent Baker seconded the motion,
and complimented Johnson, Johnson, and Roy for their role in the project. The
motion carried unanimously.
Proposed Sale of the University's Dermatology Satellite Practice in Dearborn,
Michigan to a University Employee (Dr. Michael Goldfarb)
This is a request for the University to sell its Dermatology Satellite Practice in
Dearborn, Michigan to a Dr. Michael Goldfarb. This proposed arrangement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute, since Dr. Goldfarb is both a
University employee and a party to the sales agreement.
Regent Baker moved approval of the University's entering into the proposed
sales agreement with Dr. Michael Goldfarb. Regent Power seconded the motion, and
it was adopted unanimously. The following information is provided in compliance
with the Conflict of Interest Statute:
1. Parties to the sales agreement will be the University and Dr. Michael
Goldfarb.
2. Terms of the agreement are that the University will sell its interest in
its Dermatology Practice in Dearborn, Michigan, to Dr. Michael
Goldfarb for a sales price of $150,000, with a $50,000 downpayment
on August 1, 1989. The balance will be amortized at 10/2% interest
in 30 equal monthly payments beginning February 1, 1990 through
July, 1992.
3. Dr. Goldfarb's pecuniary interest will arise from profits derived from
his ownership of the Dermatology Practice.
Further Diversification of Endowment Assets
The Regents then turned to a continuation of the discussion of diversification of
endowment assets that had begun the previous day.
Regents Nielsen and Roach said that they wished to consider only the
reorganization investments at this time, because more time was needed to consider the
other types of proposed diversification instruments. Regent Brown moved to approve
the investment of a portion of the endowment funds into reorganization investments.
Regent Varner noted that the Regents had begun diversifying its investments
over the last several years, and that entry into reorganization-type investments would
be a continuation of that trend. She said that she would be willing to support a
recommendation to invest $2.5 million in this asset class.
The Regents engaged in an extensive discussion about the merits and


-307 -



June Meeting, 1989


consequences of the University's investing a portion of its endowment in this manner,
and about the particular investment opportunity that had been proposed to the
Regents. Regent Baker said that the Board's role as fiduciaries put the investments in
a different light; he did not want the public to perceive that the Board was taking risks
with the endowment. Regent Baker said that he was not prepared to support the idea
at this time.
Regent Smith expressed her opinion that these investments were very risky and
highly speculative, and therefore would not be prudent and would not demonstrate
good stewardship. For these reasons, she could not support the proposal.
Regent Power pointed out that the previous day's presentation had included
comparisons of the University's performance with that of other, comparably-sized
institutions, and that the University had generally underperformed in relation to the
other institutions. "The job of this board is to maximize return at an acceptable level
of risk, and particularly to control volatility," according to Regent Power, and that it
was his opinion this asset class is an appropriate one for the University to invest in.
Regent Brown concurred, observing that it can be just as imprudent not to add a
category of investment as it is to add it. He noted that the University employs people
who are highly competent in this area, and that the Board has had good experience in
following their advice in recent years. "It is not a violation of the public trust to
continue to make prudent investments," he added, "and it may be imprudent not to."
Noting that there will always be a degree of uncertainty, he advised the Regents to
follow the advice of the staff with expertise in this area by continuing to diversify in
order to reduce volatility and increase total return.
Following further conversation about the proposed reorganization investment,
Regent Roach offered two amendments to the original motion: that there be a dollar
cap of $3 million on this investment, and that the investments be in secured debt
instruments. Regent Brown accepted these amendments. Further discussion ensued
about the particulars of the fund in which the money would be invested. Regent
Nielsen called the question.
Regent Roach restated the motion as follows: The Regents authorize the
investment of endowment funds into reorganization investments not to exceed $3
million, and that the funds in which the University's funds are invested shall limit their
investments to secured debt instruments. The vote was then taken, and the motion
carried, with Regents Brown, Nielsen, Power, Roach, and Varner in favor and Regents
Baker and Smith opposed. (Regent Waters had left the meeting at the beginning of
consideration of this item.)
Report on the Assessment of Michigan Student Assembly (MSA)
It was decided to defer consideration of this report until the July meeting.
Membership in Michigan Campus Compact
Regent Brown moved approval of payment of the $9,000 annual membership
fee in Michigan Campus Compact. Regent Roach seconded the motion, with the
provision that there be a three-year sunset on the approval. The vote was taken, and
the motion carried to approve payment of the $9,000 annual membership fee in
Michigan Campus Compact for three years.


-308 -



June Meeting, 1989


Resolutions Honoring Members of the UM-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Regent Power moved, seconded by Regent Brown, adoption of resolutions
honoring four members of the University of Michigan-Dearborn Citizens Advisory
Committee who are either retiring or resigning. Retiring are Stuart Bundy and
Virginia McCandless; resigning are Herbert M. Boldt and William J. Runco. The
motion carried unanimously.
Appointments to Medical Staff Membership
On a motion by Regent Brown, seconded by Regent Smith, and on the
recommendation of the UM Hospitals Executive Board, the Regents unanimously
approved several appointments to medical staff membership.
Establishment of Three Additional Distinguished University Professorships
Regent Baker moved, seconded by Regent Varner, that three additional
Distinguished University Professorships be established. The motion carried
unanimously.
Lease with Ann Arbor Public Schools
Regent Baker raised the issue of the proposed lease of University property
adjacent to Huron High School to the Ann Arbor Public Schools. He requested that
the final arrangement be made terminable at the University's option and that it be
clearly stated that the University has no intention of transferring that land to the
public schools in the foreseeable future.
Regent Roach concurred, stating that since there is no compensation associated
with the tease agreement, the University should reserve the right to terminate the
agreement at any time. Vice President Womack responded that those conditions
would be incorporated into the agreement.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting
will take place July 20 and 21, 1989. Transportation, accommodation, and other
expenses for the month of May, 1989 totalled $1,794.53.
Richard L. ennedy, Secre


-309 -



June Meeting, 1989


APPENDIX
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
Authorizing the Issuance and Sale of Bonds in the Principal Amount of Not to Exceed $8,800,000
to inance the Cost of Construction and Equipping of a Sports Services Facility
and Providing for the Payment and Security of the Bonds and Other Matters RelatingThereto
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the needs
of students attending The University of Michigan (the "University"), the Regents of the University of
Michigan (the "Issuer") has authorized the construction and equipping of a sports services facility
(hereinafter referred to as the "Project"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties and in order to properly serve the interests
of students attending the University, the Issuer deems it necessary and advisable to issue Variable Rate
Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1989 (hereinafter defined as the "Bonds") in the
original principal amount of not to exceed Eight Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars ($8,800,000)
for the purpose of paying part of the cost of constructing and equipping the Project, and paying the
expenses incidental to the issuance of the Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the financing of the Project will serve proper and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has been created as a constitutional body corporate under the provisions
of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, and has the full power under its
constitutional authority and supervision ofthe University, and control and direction of expenditures from
the University funds, to construct the Project, to pay the cost of the construction and equipping of the
Project by issuance of the Bonds, to pledge the A lusted Gross Athletic Revenues (hereinafter defined)
for payment of the Bonds and to adopt this Resolution and enter into the covenants contained herein;
and
WHEREAS the Issuer has previously issued, under a resolution adopted April 16, 1987 as
amended (the "Prior kesolution") its $6,285,000 Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1987 (the
"Outstanding Bonds"); and
WHEREAS the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or Controller of the Issuer shall
certify prior to delivery of the Bonds that the requirements under the Prior Resolution for issuing the
Bonds on a parity basis with the Outstanding Bonds have been met:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the following terms shall
have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings herein specified:
"Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues" means all revenues received by the Issuer from spectator
admissions to all regularly scheduled Intercollegiate athletic events, and currently (as of May A, 1989)
accounted for as "Spectator Admissions": such revenues include receipts from home football games (less
opponents share); receipts from away football games; student and staff season ticket sales receipts for
a sports for which such tickets are sold; admission receipts and away game guarantees or other
payments from all other sports (less guarantees or other payments to opponents); and receipts from
championship events (less guarantees or other payments to opponents); but excludes receipts from
football bowl games the National Invitational Tournament and National Collegiate Athletic Association
tournament in basketball, and all other items not currently (as of May 1, 1989) accounted for as
"Spectator Admissions".
"Annual Debt Service" shall mean for any Fiscal Year the sum of (i) an amount equal to the
amount of scheduled principal (at maturity or through mandatory redemption requirements) and interest
to become due in that Fiscal Year on the then outstanding Bonds and any then outstanding Parity
Obligations which are Fixed Rate Bonds (excluding amounts which may become owing at the option of
the solder of such Fixed Rate Bonds to the extent such amounts are covered by a Credit Support
Instrument, and excluding the principal of Balloon Indebtedness) plus (ii) an amount equal to the
principal amount of then outstanding Balloon Indebtedness excluded from (1) or (iii) divided by the
number of years to maturity from the date of original issuance of the Balloon Indebtedness, plus (iii) on
then outstanding Parity Obligations which are Variable Rate Bonds, the maximum amount of principal
and interest projected to become due in that Fiscal Year (excluding amounts which may become owing at
the option of the holder of such Variable Rate Bonds to the extent such amounts are covered by a Credit
-311 -



June Meeting, 1989


Support Instrument, and excluding the principal of Balloon Indebtedness). Such projection of interest on
Variable Rate Bonds shall be calculated at any date of calculation as an amount equal to 110% of the
greater of (a) the average daily interest rate during the then preceding twelve month period or (b) the
rate in effect on the date of calculation, but in either event not to exceed any maximum interest which
may be set for any Variable Rate Bonds. For purposes of applying the calculation set forth in (a) above,
if the Parity Obligations have not been outstanding for at least twelve months on the date of such
calculation, then the average daily interest rate during the then preceding twelve month period shall be
based on the written certificate of an independent financial advisor or independent investment banker, as
to the determination of the average interest rate the Variable Rate Bonds would have borne for such
twelve month period had they been outstanding. Interest which is payable from the proceeds of Bonds or
Parity Obligations set aside for such purpose, and debt service scheduled to be paid from any reserves set
aside for the Bonds or any Parity Obligations shall be excluded in determining the Annual Debt Service
requirement.
"Balloon Indebtedness" shall mean any issue of Parity Obligations, the debt service requirements
on which in any consecutive 12 month period, including debt service which can become due by reason of
a requirement that the indebtedness be redeemed or purchased or repurchased by or on behalf of the
Issuer from the holder thereof prior to the stated maturity (other than at the option of the holder
thereof), exceeds the average annual debt service requirements thereon by 30% or more.
"Business Day' means any day upon which the principal offices of the Transfer Agent and the
Remarketing Agent are open for business and on which the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. is not closed.
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the not to exceed $8,800,000 aggregate principal amount of Regents of
the University of Michigan Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1989,
to be issued under the Resolution.
"Bond Purchase Agreement" means the Bond Purchase Agreement, between the Issuer and the
Purchaser, pursuant to which the Bonds shall be sold by the Issuer to the Purchaser.  "B o n d F u n d"
means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series 1989 Bond Fund
established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bondholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Bonds) means the registered owner of any
Computation Period means, (i) during a Weekly Rate Period, the day succeeding each applicable
Interest Adjustment Date through and including the next applicable Interest Adjustment Date, (uj during
a Semiannual Rate Period, each June 1 and December 1 through and including the next succeeding
November 30 and May 31, respectively; and (iii) during an Annual Rate Period, June 1 or December 
as applicable, through and including the next succeeding May 31 or November 30, respectively; provided,
however, that upon conversion from one Rate Period to any other Rate Period, the relevant Computation
Periods shall be adjusted as provided in Section 303(E) hereof.
"Credit Support Instrument" shall mean an irrevocable letter of credit, line of credit, insurance
policy, bond purchase agreement (including a covenant by the Issuer to purchase tendered bonds from
sources of funds other than Adjusted Gross Athletic Resources), guaranty or surety bond providing for
the payment of, or guaranteeing the payment of, principal and interest on, the purchase price o, the
Bonds or Parity Obligations when due.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, currently beginning on July 1 and ending on
June 30.
"Fixed Rate Bonds" shall mean the Outstanding Bonds, the Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds and any
Parity Obligations bearing interest at a fixed rate or rates of interest.
"Government Obligation" shall mean any of the following which at the time of investment are
legal investments for the moneys proposed to be invested therein: direct general obligations of, or
obligations the payment of the principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by, the
United States of America, or other obligations, including defeased tax-exempt securities, or maturing
interests in a trusteed fund or funds composed entirely of the foregoing instruments, the timely payment
of which is fully secured by the payment of principal and interest on direct general obligations of, or
obligations the payment of principal of and interest on which is unconditionally guaranteed by the United
States of America.
"Interest Adjustment Date" means (i) for any Weekly Rate Period, the Wednesday of each
calendar week or if such day is not a Business Day, then on the Business Day immediately succeeding
such day, commencing with the Interest Adjustment Date occurring during the calendar week next
following the calendar week during which the Bonds are issued and delivered to the original purchasers,
and (ii) for any Semiannual or Annual Rate Period, the Business Day specified by the Issuer in the
manner set forth in Section 303 hereof.
-312 -



June Meeting, 1989


"Interest Payment Dates" means (i) during the effectiveness of a Weekly Rate Period, each
March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 or, if such day is not a Business Day the next succeeding
Business Day, commencing September 1, 1989; and (ii) during the effectiveness of a Semiannual Rate
Period an Annual Rate Period or the Fixed Rate Period, each une 1 and December 1 or, if such day is
not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day.
"Interest Period" means (i) initially, the period from and including the date of original delivery of
the Bonds to the original Purchaser thereof to and including the day immediately preceding the first
Interest Payment Date, (ii) for any Weekly Rate Period each period commencing from and including the
most recent Interest Payment Date to and including tie day immediately preceding the next Interest
Payment Date, and (iii) Tor any Semiannual Rate Period, Annual Rate Period or Fixed Rate Period, each
period commencing from and including each June 1 and December 1 to and including each November 30
and May 31, respectively; provided that upon conversion from any Rate Period to any other Rate Period
the last Interest Period for the Rate Period then in effect and the first Interest Period for the Rate Period
to take effect shall be determined as provided in Section 303(E) hereof.
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when received, earned through the
investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the Bond Fund.
"Issuer" means the Regents of the University of Michigan, a constitutional body corporate having
general supervision of the Unversity and control and direction of all expenditures from its funds.
"Legally Available Funds" means any moneys of the Issuer that may be legally used by the Issuer
to pay principal of, and interest on, the Bonds, or the Purchase Price of the Bonds, but shall not include
any funds (a) currently or subsequently pledged for, or committed to present or future loans bonds or
debt service on other obligations or other purposes to the extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the use
of which would result in the Bonds herein authorized being construed as a general obligation of the
Issuer or as indebtedness of the State of Michigan under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
"Maximum Rate" means the lesser of fifteen percent (15%) per annum or the maximum interest
rate from time to time permitted by law with respect to the Bonds.
"Operating Costs" means all costs and expenses required to be paid for the operation and
maintenance of the Program, but shall not include payment of debt service on the Bonds, the
Outstanding Bonds and any additional Parity Obligations, depreciation or amortization.
The terms "outstanding" or "Bonds outstanding" mean, as of any date, all Bonds theretofore or
then being delivered under the Resolution, except (i) Bonds theretofore acquired by the Issuer and
cancelled and (ii) Bonds for which the Issuer shall have made provision for payment in accordance with
Section 702 hereof.
"Parity Obligations" means additional Parity Obligations of the Issuer secured by a pledge of and
first lien against Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues, hereafter issued or incurred by the Issuer from time
to time in accordance with the terms of the Resolution.
"Program" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletics Program.
"Project" means the project referenced in the preambles hereto.
"Project Fund" means the University of Michigan Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic
Revenue Bonds, Series 1989 Project Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Purchase Price" means, with respect to Bonds or portions of Bonds tendered or deemed
tendered for purchase pursuant to optional tender rights or mandatory purchases, the principal of such
Bonds or portions of Bonds, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Tender Date.
"Purchaser" means John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated, the original purchaser of the Bonds.
"Rate Period" (Weekly Rate Period, Semiannual Rate Period, Annual Rate Period or Fixed Rate
Period) means the period selected by the Issuer from time to time as the period for which the interest
rates on the Bonds shall be established.
"Record Date" means, during any Weekly Rate Period, the close of business on the Business Day
immediately preceding each Interest Payment Date, and during any other Rate Period, including the
Fixed Rate Period, the close of business on the fifteenth day ofthe calendar month next preceding each
Interest Payment Date; provided, that the Issuer may change the Record Date by mailing written notice
to the Transfer Agent and the Bondholders at least 30 days prior to the effective date of the change.
"Remarketing Agent" means John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated, or any successor Remarketing
Agent appointed pursuant to Section 306 hereof.
-313 -



June Meeting, 1989


"Remarketing Agreement" means the Remarketing Agreement entered into between the Issuer
and John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated, or a similar agreement entered into with any successor
Remarketing Agent.
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory or supplementary
hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Revenue Fund" means the University of Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds,
Series 1987 Revenue Fund established by Section 403 of tfie Prior Resolution.
"Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds" means the Bonds from and after the effective date of conversion
of the Bonds to a Fixed Rate Period.
"Series 1989 Variable Rate Bonds" means the Bonds during a Weekly Rate Period, Semiannual
Rate Period or Annual Rate Period.
"Surplus Revenues" means in any Fiscal Year all Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues for such
Fiscal Year remaining after the Issuer has made the deposits required to be made in such Fiscal Year to
the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 504 hereof and after the Issuer has paid all Operating Costs for such
Fiscal Year.
"Tender Date" means, (i) during the effectiveness of a Weekly Rate Period, any Business Day, (ii)
during the effectiveness of a Semiannual Rate Period, any Interest Payment Date, (iii) during the
effectiveness of an Annual Rate Period, each anniversary of the first June 1 or December 1 whichever
first occurs) during the first Annual Rate Period, provided that if such anniversary is not a Business Day,
then on the next succeeding Business Day, and (iv) upon conversion from one Rate Period to another,
the day the new Rate Period becomes effective, provided, if such day is not a Business Day, then on the
next succeeding Business Day.
"Transfer Agent" means the Transfer Agent appointed by the Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the University or any successor Transfer Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section
"University" means the University of Michigan.
"Variable Rate Bonds" shall mean the Series 1989 Variable Rate Bonds and any Parity
Obligations bearing interest at variable or adjustable rates.
ARTICLE II
NECESSITY FOR ISSUANCE OF BONDS: PROJECT LIFE
Section 201 Necessity for Issuance of the Bonds. The Issuer, in the exercise of its powers and
authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and direction of all
expenditures from the University's funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, hereby determines that the issuance of the Bonds for the purposes set forth in the
preambles hereto is necessary and advisable in order to enable the Issuer to finance the cost of the
construction and equipping of the Project.
Section 202 Estimated Period of Usefulness of the Project. The estimated period of usefulness
of the Project is determined to be not less than 5 years.
ARTICLE III
THE BONDS
Section 301 Authorization of the Issuance of the Bonds. For the purposes set forth in Article II,
there shall be borrowed the sum of not to exceed Eight Million Eight Hundred Thousand Dollars
($8800,000), and in evidence thereof there shall be issued the Bonds of the Issuer which shall be
designated "Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds Series 1989" in like
aggregate principal amount, all to be equally secured as hereinafter set forth. Tie Bonds shall be dated
as of their date of issuance to the original Purchaser shall bear interest at variable rates not in excess of
the Maximum Rate (subject to conversion to Fixed Rate Bonds), all as set forth herein, shall mature
subject to annual mandatory redemption requirements on June 1, 1994, shall be issued in the principal
amount to be determined by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in connection with the sale of
the Bonds, and shall be issued in fully-registered form in the denomination of $100,000 or integral
multiples thereof while the Bonds are Series 1989 Variable Rate Bonds, or $5,000 or integral multiples
thereof while the Bonds are Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds.
Section 302 Limited Obligation and Other Bond Terms. The Bonds shall be limited obligations
of the Issuer equally and ratably and solely secured by the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and any
moneys in the Bond Fund or Revenue Fund, on a parity basis, as to Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues
-314.




June Meeting, 1989


only, with the Outstanding Bonds, and the Bonds shall not be a debt or liability of the State of Michigan
or a general obligation of the Issuer.
The Bonds shall bear interest payable on each Interest Payment Date, commencing September 1,
1989, until maturity or prior redemption. The principal amount and redemption premium, if any of the
Bonds, shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America upon surrender thereof at the
office of the Transfer Agent. Interest on the Bonds shall be payable by check or bank draft mailed by the
Transfer Agent, or, as provided in Section 504, by the Issuer, to the registered owner at the registered
address, both as shown on the registration books for the Bonds maintained by the Transfer Agent.
Interest shall be payable when due to the person or entity who is, as of the Record Date, the registered
owner of record.
Section 303 Interest.
(A) Weekl Variable Rate. During any Weekly Rate Period, the Bonds shall bear interest at the
rate per annum established as follows, computed on the basis of a 365 or 366 day year, as applicable, for
the actual number of days elapsed during the applicable Interest Period, and payable on the applicable
Interest Payment Date. From the date ofissuance and delivery of the Bonds to the original Purchaser to
and including the next Rate Adjustment Date the Bonds shall bear interest at the interest rate per
annum contained in the Certificate of Award of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or
Controller delivered on the date of issuance and delivery of the Bonds to the original Purchaser.
Thereafter, until converted as provided herein, the Rate Period as to the Bonds shall be a Weekly Rate
Period. If such Rate Period is a Weekly Rate Period, the Remarketing Agent shall thereafter determine
the interest rate on the Bonds on each Interest Adjustment Date and such rate (i) shall become effective
on Thursday of such week, if such Interest Adjustment Date is the Wednesday of a calendar week, and
(ii) otherwise shall become effective on the next day after such Interest Adjustment Date. The interest
rate on the Bonds determined by the Remarketing Agent shall be the interest rate which, if borne by the
Bonds, would, based upon current transactions in comparable securities in which the Remarketing Agent
is involved or of which it is aware and prevailing financial market conditions, be the interest rate
necessary to enable the Remarketing Agent to sell such Bonds in the secondary market at a price equal
to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon; provided, however, that (i) if, for any
reason, the Remarketing Agent fails to make or to announce such determination on such Interest
Adjustment Date, the rate to take effect on Thursday of such week or on the following day, as applicable
shall be the weekly rate already in effect on the Interest Adjustment Date; and (ii) in no event shall the
interest rate on the Bonds exceed the Maximum Rate.
The Remarketing Agent shall announce, by 10:00 a.m., local time, on the Interest Adjustment
Date the rate so determined by telephonic notice to the Transfer Agent, and shall confirm such notice in
writing sent by wire, telex, telecopier, or similar means of communication, on the same day. Promptly
upon receipt of such telephonic notice, the Transfer Agent shall give notice on the Interest Adjustment
Date of the rate so determined by telephone, wire, telex, telecopier or other similar means of
communication to the Issuer. The Interest Rate shall be made available to all registered holders who
request it by telephone or in writing from the Remarketing Agent or the Transfer Agent. The interest
rate on the Bonds so determined shall be conclusive and binding upon all holders of the Bonds.
If the Issuer shall at any time elect to convert the Bonds to a Weekly Rate Period, the Transfer
Agent, at the direction of the Issuer shall give notice by mail to the holders of the Bonds not fewer than
thirty (30) days prior to the date of conversion. Such notice shall state (i) that the interest rate on the
Bonds is scheduled to beconverted to an interest rate calculated for a Weekly Rate Period, (ii) that the
weekly interest rate will be determined by the Remarketing Agent on a day not fewer than five (5) days
prior to the effective date of such conversion, such rate to be provided to individual holders by the
Remarketing Agent upon request by such holders, (iii) the effective date of such conversion, (iv) that the
effective date of such conversion shall be the day next succeeding the end of the Computation Period
then in effect, (v) that holders of the Bonds may tender such Bonds for purchase on the effective date of
such conversion or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day, in the manner
and upon the notice described in Section 304 hereof, (vi) that thereafter interest will be determined on
the basis set forth in this Section 303(A) and payable quarterly as above provided and (vii) that
thereafter the Bonds shall be purchased by the Remarketing Agent only on the applicable Tender Date,
as provided in Section 304 of this Resolution. Such notice shall be given by registered or certified mail to
the holders of the Bonds whose names appear on the Register.
(B) Semiannual Rate Periods and Annual Rate Periods. During any Semiannual Rate Period or
Annual Rate Period, the Bonds shall bear interest at the rate per annum established as follows,
computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day calendar months and payable on the Interest
Payment Date immediately following each Interest Period for which such interest is calculated. The
Remarketing Agent shall determine the interest rate on the Bonds on the applicable Interest Adjustment
Date, and such rate shall become effective on the first day of the next succeeding Interest Period. The
interest rate on the Bonds determined by the Remarketing Agent shall be the interest rate which, if
borne by the Bonds, would, based upon current transactions in comparable securities in which the
Remarketing Agent is involved, or of which it is aware, and based on prevailing financial market
-315 -



June Meeting, 1989


conditions, be the interest rate necessary to enable the Remarketing Agent to sell those Bonds in the
secondary market at a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest thereon;
provided, however, that (i) if, for any reason, the Remarketing Agent fails to make or to announce such
determination on such Interest Adjustment Date, the rate to take effect on the first day of the next
succeeding Interest Period shall be the semiannual or annual rate in effect on the Interest Adjustment
Date; and (ii) in no event shall the interest rate on the Bonds exceed the Maximum Rate.
The Remarketing Agent shall announce, by 10:00 a.m., local time, on the applicable Interest
Adjustment Date, the rate so determined by telephonic notice to the Transfer Agent, and shall confirm
such notice in writing sent by wire, telex, telecopier, or similar means of communication, on the same
day. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Transfer Agent shall give notice on the Interest
Adjustment Date of the rate so determined by telephone, telex, telecopier or other similar means of
communication to the Issuer. The interest rate shall be made available to all registered holders who
request it by telephone or in writing from the Remarketing Agent or the Transfer Agent. The interest
rate on the Bonds so determined shall be conclusive and binding upon the holders of all Bonds.
If the Issuer shall elect to convert the Bonds to a Semiannual Rate Period or to an Annual Rate
Period, the Transfer Agent, at the direction of the Issuer shall give notice by mail to the holders of the
Bonds not fewer than thirty (30 days prir to the date of conversion. Such notice shall state (i) that the
interest rate on the Bonds is scheduled to be converted to an interest rate calculated for a Semiannual
Rate Period or an Annual Rate Period, as the case may be, (ii) that the semiannual or annual rate will be
determined by the Remarketing Agent on a day not fewer than twenty (20) days prior to the effective
date of such conversion, such rate to be provided by the Remarketing Agent to any registered holder
upon the request of such holder, (iii) the effective date of such conversion, (iv) that the effective date of
such conversion shall be the day next succeeding the end of a Computation Period, (v) that the holders of
such Bonds may tender such Bonds for purchase on the effective date of such conversion, or, if such date
is not a Business Day, then on the next succeeding Business Day, in the manner and upon the notice
described in Section 304 hereof, (vi) that thereafter interest will be determined on the basis set forth in
this Section 303(B) and payable semiannuall as above provided, and (vii) that thereafter the Bonds shall
be purchased by the Remarketing Agent only on the applicable Tender Date, as provided in Section 304
of this Resolution. Such notice shaU be given by registered or certified mail to the holders of the Bonds
whose names appear on the Register.
The Issuer may, upon compliance with the provisions hereof for establishment of a Semiannual
Rate Period or an Annual Rate Period, specify the applicable Interest Adjustment Date by providing
notice to the Remarketing Agent and the Transfer Agent. The notice shall specify a Business Day not
more than thirty (30) nor fewer than twenty (20) days prior to the end of each Computation Period on
which the interest rate for such Rate Period must be adjusted in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 303. The Interest Adjustment Date so specified shall remain in effect for the duration of the
Rate Period which is the subject of such notice unless the Issuer, prior to a subsequent Computation
Period, notifies the Remarketing Agent and the Transfer Agent of a new Interest Adjustment Date.
(C) Additional Interest To Remarketing Agent. Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, the Issuer may agree in the Remarketing Agreement to pay additional interest on any Bond to
the Remarketing Agent for the period such Bond is held by the Remarketing Agent, all as shall be
specified in the Remarketing Agreement. Such additional interest shall be payable directly by the Issuer
to the Remarketing Agent, and shall not accrue and be transferable to any party other than the
Remarketing Agent. The Issuer's obligations to pay such additional interest shall be limited to Legally
Available Funds, and the Issuer shall not be obligated to pay such interest from, nor shall it be secured by
a lien on Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues. No such additional interest shall cause the rate on the
Bonds to exceed the maximum rate permitted by law.
(D) Conversion to Fixed Interest Rates. Upon conversion to Fixed Interest Rates as in this
Section 303(D) provided the Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds of each maturity shall, from and after the
date of conversion until maturity bear interest from the date of conversion, payable on the Interest
Payment Date immediately following each Interest Period for which such interest is calculated, at the
Fixed Interest Rate applicable to that maturity, computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
calendar months. Once converted to Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds, the Bonds may not be converted to
Series 1989 Variable Rate Bonds. The Issuer shall initiate conversion to Fixed Interest Rates by
providing notice (the Issuer Notice") to the Transfer Agent, and the Remarketing Agent specifying the
date of conversion (which shall be a Business Day not fewer than forty (40) days succeeding the date the
Issuer gives such direction) and the date the Fixed Interest Rates shall be established (which shall be not
fewer than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of conversion. Such direction shall be accompanied by an
opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel stating that such conversion to Fixed Interest Rates is
authorized or permitted by the Resolution, and that conversion to the Fixed Interest Rates in accordance
with the provisions of this Resolution will not adversely affect the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds
from gross income for federal income tax purposes. The Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds shall mature on
June I of each of the next years in the amounts which would otherwise have been subject to mandatory
sinking fund redemption or final maturity (each as previously adjusted pursuant to the provisions of
Section 309(B)) on each such June 1 through June 1, 1994.
-316 -



June Meeting, 1989


Following receipt of an Issuer Notice providing for conversion to Fixed Interest Rates the
Transfer Agent shall select by lot, in any manner which the Transfer Agent may determine the Bonds, or
portions ofBonds in $5,000 increments to mature on each June 1 as set forth above.  Following receipt
of the Issuer Notice the Remarketing Agent shall determine, on the date specified by the Issuer for such
determination, the Fixed Interest Rates as those interest rates which, if borne by the Series 1989 Fixed
Rate Bonds of each maturity, based upon current transactions in comparable securities in which the
Remarketing Agent is involved or of which it is aware and prevailing financial market conditions, shall be
the interest rate necessary to enable the Remarketing Agent to sell the Bonds then outstanding in the
secondary market at a price equal to the principal thereof plus accrued interest thereon. Such
determination by the Remarketing Agent shall be conclusive and shall be the Fixed Interest Rates for the
Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds of each maturity commencing with the date of conversion until maturity.
provided, however, that in no event shall the interest rate on the Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds exceed
the Maximum Rate. The Issuer shall have the right to deliver replacement Bonds to the registered
owners of Bonds converted to the Fixed Rate Period. The replacement Bonds shall bear the Fixed
Interest Rates with deletion of such terms as are no longer applicable. Any such replacement Bonds
shall be executed and authenticated as provided generally in this Resolution.
At the direction of the Issuer, the Transfer Agent shall give notice by mail (the "Transfer Agent's
Notice") to the holders of all Bonds not fewer than thirty 30) days prior to the effective date of
conversion to the Fixed Rate Period. Such notice shall state (i) that the interest rate on the Bonds is
scheduled to be converted to fixed interest rates, (ii) the effective date of the Fixed Rate Period, (iii) the
date the fixed interest rates are scheduled to be determined (iv) the date by which a holder of Bonds
may deliver a Notice of Retention provided for in Section 364 hereof which date shall be no later than
the 20th day prior to the effective date of the Fixed Interest Rates, (v that subsequent to such effective
date of the conversion the holders of Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds will no longer have the right to
require purchase of the Bonds by the Remarketing Agent, (vi) that all outstanding Bonds will be subject
to mandatory purchase by the Remarketing Agent, but only from the proceeds of remarketing of the
Bonds or Legally Available Funds provided by the Issuer on the effective date of the conversion to the
Fixed Rate leriod at a price of par plus accrued interest, if any except any Bond for which the holder
thereof shall have delivered a timely and valid Notice of Retention, (vii) that any then current rating on
the Bonds may be reduced or withdrawn and (viii) the maturity schedule (by bond number), for the
Bonds which would become effective after conversion to the Fixed Rate Period. Such notice shall be
given by registered or certified mail to the holders of the Bonds whose names appear on the Bond
Register.
The Issuer may, at its option, cancel the conversion to the Fixed Rate Period by giving written
notice to the Transfer Agent at any time prior to the 10th day before the proposed conversion date. If all
Bonds (other than those for which a valid and timely Notice of Retention has been filed) are not
purchased on the conversion date, then the conversion shall be cancelled and the Bonds shall remain in
the Interest Rate Period in effect prior to conversion. Upon cancellation of the conversion as described
in the preceding two sentences, the Bonds shall nevertheless be subject to mandatory purchase on the
proposed conversion date, without option of retention.
(E) Rate Period Conversion. Prior to conversion of the Bonds to the Fixed Rate Period, upon
receipt by the Transfer Agent and the Remarketing Agent of (i) a direction from the Issuer, specifing
the date a Weekly Rate Period Semiannual Rate Period or Annual Rate Period shall be effective (which
shall be a date at least forty (46) days from the date the Issuer gives such direction and which shall be the
day next succeeding the end of the Computation Period in effect at the time of such conversion, and (ii)
notice specifying (a) the date the Remarketing Agent shall calculate the interest rate to take effect upon
conversion (which shall be a date no later than the fifth day prior to the effectiveness of a Weekly Rate
Period and, no later than the twentieth day prior to the effectiveness of a Semiannual Rate Period or an
Annual Rate Period), and (b) that on the date a new Rate Period shall be effective, or if not a Business
Day the next succeeding Business Day a holder of Bonds may tender such Bonds for purchase in
accordance with the provisions of Section 304, the Remarketing Agent shall begin to compute the
applicable interest rate as provided in (A) or (B) above. Upon conversion from any Rate Period to any
other Rate Period, the first Interest Period, and consequently, the first Computation Period for such
other Rate Period shall commence upon the day on which the new interest rate becomes effective, and
the Interest Period shall thereafter continue to and include the day preceding the first Interest Payment
Date for such other Rate Period. Any such direction of Rate Period conversion shall be accompanied by
an opinion of nationally recognized bond counsel stating that such conversion is authorized or permitted
by the Resolution and that conversion to a Weekly, a Semiannual Rate Period or an Annual Rate Period
in accordance with the provisions of this Resolution will not adversely affect the exclusion of the interest
on the Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes.
Section 304 Optional and Mandatory Purchases.
(A) Purchase of Bonds. During any Weekly Rate Period, any Bond (or any portion thereof in an
amount equal to an integral multiple of $100 000) shall be purchased by the Remarketing Agent, but only
from the sources described in Subsection (D) of this Section, on the demand of the holder thereof, on the
applicable Tender Date, at a Purchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus, if such
-317 -



June Meeting, 1989


Tender Date is not an Interest Payment Date accrued interest to the date of purchase, following delivery
to the Remarketing Agent at its New York office not later than 4:00 p.m. local time (or upon telephonic
notice promptly confirmed by telex, telegraph or telecopier) of a demand for purchase properly
completed and executed, which states (i) the principal amount (or portion thereof in an amount equal to
an integral multiple of $100,000) of such Bond which will be delivered for purchase, (ii) the Tender Date
on which such Bond (or portion thereof in an amount equal to an integraf multiple of $100,000) shall be
purchased pursuant to this subsection (A) which date shall be a Business Day not prior to the seventh day
next succeeding the date of delivery of such demand for purchase, (iii) that the demand for purchase is an
irrevocable request, (iv) that the holder will deliver the Bond to the Remarketing Agent at or prior to
10:00 a.m  New York time at the New York office of the Remarketing Agent on the Tender Date, (v) the
name of the registered holder of such Bond, (vi) the telex or telecopier number, if any, of the registered
holder of such Bond, (vii) the bond number of such Bond and (vii) the CUSIP number thereof. By
delivering such notice, the holder irrevocably agrees to deliver such Bond to the New York office of the
Remarketing Agent at or prior to 10:00 a.m., local time on the Tender Date.
During any Semiannual Rate Period or Annual Rate Period, any Bond (or any portion thereof in
an amount equal to an integral multiple of $100 000) shall be purchased by the Remarketing Agent, but
only from the sources described in subsection (D) of this Section, on the demand of the holder thereof on
the applicable Tender Date, at a Purchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus, if
such Tender Date is not an Interest Payment Date accrued interest to the date of purchase, following
delivery to the Remarketing Agent at its New York office not later than 4:00 p.m., local time on a
Business Day at least fifteen (15 days prior to the applicable Tender Date of a demand for purchase
properly completed and execute (or upon telephonic notice promptly confirmed by telex, telegraph or
telecopier), which states (i) the Tender ate on which such Bond (or authorized portion thereof) will be
purchased which shall be a date permitted by the definition of "Tender Date" herein contained, (ii) the
principal amount (or ortion thereof in an amount equal to an integral multiple of $100,000) of such
Bond which will be delivered for purchase, (iii) that the demand for purchase is an irrevocable request,
(iv) that the holder will deliver the Bond to the Remarketing Agent at or prior to 10:00 a.m., New York
time at the New York office of the Remarketing Agent, on the Tender Date, (v) the name of the
registered holder of such Bond, (vi) the telex or telecopier number, if any, of the registered holder of
such Bonds, (vii) the bond number of such Bond and (viii) the CUSIP number thereof. B delivering
such notice the holder irrevocably agrees to deliver such Bond to the New York office of the
Remarketing Agent at or prior to 10:00 a.m., local time at the New York office of the Remarketing
Agent, on such Tender Date.
A Bond (or an authorized portion thereof) delivered to the Remarketing Agent shall be
purchased pursuant to this subsection (A) only if such Bonds shall conform in all respects to the
description thereof set forth in the demand for purchase. Upon determination by the Remarketing
Agent that a Bond delivered to the Remarketing Agent was not one of the Bonds described in the
demand for purchase, the Remarketing Agent shall return such Bond to the registered holder thereof. In
addition, the Remarketing Agent may, in its sole discretion, refuse to purchase any Bonds as to which the
Remarketing Agent has received notice, but which notice is inaccurate or incomplete.
Any election by a holder to tender a Bond or Bonds (or an authorized portion thereof) for
purchase in accordance with this Section shall be irrevocable and shall be binding on the holder making
such election and on any transferee of such holder. If after delivery to the Remarketing Agent of a notice
in accordance with this Section, the holder making such election shall fail to deliver such Bond or Bonds
described in such notice to the Remarketing Agent on or before the applicable Tender Date as required
by this Section, the untendered Bonds or portion thereof described in such notice, to the extent that there
shal be on deposit with the Remarketing Agent and available therefor an amount sufficient to pay the
Purchase Price thereof, be deemed purchased on the Tender Date and shall thereafter be an
"Undelivered Bond," with the effect described below.
(B) Mandatory Purchase Upon Establishment of Fixed Interest Rates. All Bonds are subject to
mandatory purchase by the Remarketing Agent, but only from the sources described in (D) below, in
whole upon conversion of the Bonds to the Fixed Rate Period at a Purchase Price of 100% of the
principal amount thereof on the date of conversion to Fixed Interest Rates, plus, if the conversion date is
not an Interest Payment Date, accrued interest to the conversion date provided that there shall not be so
purchased Bonds with respect to which the Remarketin Agent shall nave received written direction (a
Notice of Retention") not to so purchase the same from the holders thereof, as described below.
Upon and in connection with the conversion of Bonds to Fixed Interest Rates, a holder of bonds
may direct the Remarketing Agent not to purchase all or a portion (in principal amount of $5,000 or any
multiple thereof) of such Bonds held by him by delivering to the Remarketing Agent at its New York
office on or before the 20th day preceding the conversion date a Notice of Retention in writing executed
by such holder (a) specifying the numbers and denominations of Bonds held by him, (b) acknowledging
receipt of notice of the matters set forth in clauses (i) through (viii) of the third paragraph of Section
303(D) hereof, and (c) directing the Remarketing Agent not to purchase such Bonds or portions thereof
(in the principal amount of $5000 or any multiple thereof); provided, however, that a holder who makes
such a direction must hold such Bonds at least through the date of conversion.
-318 -



June Meeting, 1989


A Notice of Retention delivered to the Remarketing Agent in accordance with this Section
304(B) shall be irrevocable and shall be binding upon subsequent holders of the Bonds including Bonds
issued in exchange therefor or upon the registration of transfer thereof.  (C) Remarketing of
Bonds. Upon receipt of notice of a demand for purchase of any Bond (or authorized portion thereof)
pursuant to subsection (A) hereof, the Remarketmg Agent shall offer for sale and use its best efforts to
sell such Bond (or authorized portion thereof) to any person or persons. The Remarketng Agent shall
also, pursuant to the Remarketing Agreement, remarket the Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds upon
conversion to the Fixed Rate Period. The Remarketing Agent shall give oral or telephonic notice to be
promptly confirmed by telex, telegram or telecopier, at the time and in the manner provided in
subsection (E)ii) of this Section, to the Issuer and the Transfer Agent, of each Bond (or authorized
portion thereof) remarketed pursuant to this Section and the Tender Date therefor.
(D) Sources for Purchase of Bonds. On the Tender Date a Bond (or authorized portion thereof)
is to be purchased pursuant to subsection (A) hereof, or on the date the Bonds are required to be
purchased pursuant to subsection (B) hereof, the Remarketing Agent shall, but solely to the extent such
funds are available, purchase (i) first from any moneys available from the proceeds of remarketing such
Bond; and (h) second from Legally Available Funds provided by the Issuer pursuant to Section 305
hereof such Bond (or authorized portion thereof) from the holder thereof at thPurchase Price equal to
the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any, to the date of purchase (if such date is not an
Interest Payment Date).
(E) Duties of Remarketin Agent With Respect to Purchase and Remarketing of Bonds. In
connection with the purchase and remarketing of Bonds pursuant to this Section 304(E):
(i) The Remarketing Agent shall immediately upon the delivery to it of a properly
completed and execute demand for purchase of Bonds (or authorized portions thereof),
gve oral or telephonic notice, promptly confirmed by telex, telegraph or telecopier to the
Issuer, and the Transfer Agent, speci g the principal amount of the Bonds (or authorized
portions thereof) to be delivered for purchase and the applicable Tender Date on which
such Bonds (or authorized portions thereof) are to be purchased pursuant to subsection (A)
hereof;
(ii) The Remarketing Agent shall give oral or telephonic notice, promptly confirmed by
telex, telegraph or telecopier, on or before 4:00 p.m. New York time on the Business Day
immediately prior to the Tender Date (including a Tender Date which is a mandatory
purchase date in connection with the conversion to a Fixed Rate Period), to the Issuer and
the Transfer Agent of the principal amount of Bonds to be tendered but not remarketed;
(iii) The Remarketing Agent shall give oral or tele honic notice, promptly confirmed by
telex, telegram or telecopier, on or before 10:00 a.m. New York time on the Tender Date to
the Issuer and the Transfer Agent of all amounts required to pay the Purchase Price of the
Bonds required to be purchased which have not been remarketed;
(iv) The Remarketing Agent shall hold all Bonds (or authorized portions thereof) delivered
to it for purchase pursuant to subsections (A) or (B) hereof, in trust as agent and bailee of,
and in escrow for the benefit of the respective holders thereof until moneys, from the
sources specified in subsection (D) hereof and representing the Purchase Price of such
Bonds (or authorized portions thereof), shall have been delivered to or for the account of or
to the order of the holders thereof and, thereafter on the Purchase Date the Remarketing
Agent shall deliver such Bonds to the Transfer Agent for transfer, and the Transfer Agent
shall register, authenticate and deliver the Bonds so purchased in accordance with
subsection (F) hereof;
(v) The Remarketing Agent shall by the close of business on the Tender Date pay the
urchase Price of all Bonds required to be purchased on such Tender Date and which have
been duly delivered and tendered for purchase, fully endorsed for transfer, to the holders
thereof' provided that the Remarketing Agent shall return to the Issuer no later than the
close o0 business on the Tender Date any moneys held by the Remarketing Agent in excess
of an amount required to purchase Bonds tendered for purchase.
(F) Delivery of Bonds Following Purchase. Bonds (or authorized portions of Bonds) purchased
by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to (A) or (B) of this Section 304 from the proceeds of remarketing
shall be delivered to the Transfer Agent for transfer and shall be registered, authenticated and delivered
by the Transfer Agent in the name of the purchaser or its nominee, as shall be specified by the
Remarketing Agent, and made available to the purchaser by the close of business on the Tender Date.
Bonds (or authorized portions thereof) purchased by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to subsection (A)
or (B) hereof from Legally Available Funds provided by the Issuer shall be registered in the name of the
Issuer or its nominee, as it shall specify, and shall be held by the Transfer Agent or delivered to the
Issuer, as the Issuer shall specify.


-319 -



June Meeting, 1989


(G) Remarketing After Notice of Conversion to Fixed Rate Period. Any Bond purchased by the
Remarketing Agent and remarketed by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to the terms of this Resolution
from the date notice of a mandatory purchase is given with respect to such Bond in the manner provided
in Section 304(C) hereof through the effective date of the Fixed Rate Period, shall not be remarketed
except to a buyer who agrees at the time of such purchase either (i) to accept the fixed interest rates
when the Fixed Rate Period become effective if a Notice of Retention has previously been filed or may
yet be timely filed, or (ii) to tender such Bond for purchase by the Remarketing Agent pursuant to
subsection (B) hereof on the effective date of the Fixed Rate Period.
(H) Undelivered Bonds. Any Bonds which are required pursuant to a previously filed tender
notice or pursuant to mandatory purchase to be tendered for purchase on a Tender Date to the
Remarketing Agent that are not delivered on the Tender Date, and for which there has been irrevocably
deposited in trust with the Remarketing Agent an amount of money sufficient to pay the Purchase Price
thereof shall be deemed to have been purchased pursuant to this Section 304 and shall be Undelivered
Bonds. In the event of a failure by a Bondholder to tender its Bonds on or prior to the required date,
said Owner of such Undelivered Bonds shall not be entitled to any payment other than the Purchase
Price and Undelivered Bonds in the hands of such non-delivering owner shall no longer accrue interest or
be entitled to the benefits of this Resolution, except for the payment of the Purchase Price; provided,
however, that the indebtedness represented by such Bonds shall not be extinguished.
With respect to any Undelivered Bond, the Remarketing Agent, acting pursuant to the power of
attorney granted by such Bondholder in the Bond, shall do the following:
(a) Assign, endorse, and transfer such Bond to the purchaser or purchasers thereof;
(b) Request the Transfer Agent to register, authenticate and deliver a new Bond or Bonds, as
appropriate, to the purchaser or purchasers thereof including the Issuer, if appropriate.
(c) Execute an acknowledgement that the holder of Undelivered Bonds, holds such Undelivered
Bond for the benefit of the new purchaser or purchasers thereof, who shall be identified in such
acknowledgement;
(d) Promptly notify by first class mail the holder of such Undelivered Bond that:
(1) The Remarketing Agent has acted pursuant to such power of attorney to transfer the
Undelivered Bond and to perform the other acts set forth in this Section;
(2) The Undelivered Bond in the hands of the prior holder thereof is no longer deemed
Outstanding under the Indenture and has ceased to bear interest on the Tender Date; and
(3) Funds equal to the applicable Purchase Price for such Bond are being held on behalf of
such older, without interest, by the Remarketing Agent.
(e) Hold the Purchase Price for such Bonds without interest, in trust and as agent and bailee for
and in escrow for the benefit of the prior holders thereof and pay such Purchase Price to such holder
upon presentation of the certificate representing the Undelivered Bond. Undelivered Bonds presented
for payment by 12:00 noon on any Business Day shall be paid in same day funds, and if presented after
12:00 noon on any Business Day shall be paid on the next succeeding Business Day.
Section 305 Obligation of Issuer to Purchase Bonds. The Issuer hereb covenants that it shall
purchase on any Tender Date, but only from  and only to the extent available) Legally Available Funds,
any Bonds required to be purchased on such  ender Date which have not been remarketed. Upon
receipt of notice from the Remarketing Agent pursuant to Section 304(E)(iii) of the amount of funds
required to purchase Bonds which have not been remarketed, the Issuer shall promptly cause
immediately available funds to be wire-transferred to the account of the Remarketing Agent in amounts
sufficient to pay the Purchase Price of such Bonds required to be purchased and not remarketed. The
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Controller or Investment Officer, or any one of them, is
authorized and directed to liquidate such investments and make such payments as shall be necessary to
comply with the obligations of the Issuer pursuant to this Section 305.
Section 306 Appointment of Remarketing Agent: Resignation and Removal.
(a) The Remarketing Agent shall designate in writing to the Issuer its principal office and signify
its acceptance of the duties and obligations imposed upon it hereunder and in the Remarketing
Agreement by a written instrument of acceptance delivered to the Issuer.
(b) The Remarketing Agent may at any time resign and be discharged of the duties and
obligations created by this Resolution by giving at least 30 days' written notice to the Issuer and the
Transfer Agent; provided that such resignation shall take effect only upon appointment of a successor
Remarketing Agent. The Remarketing Agent may be removed at any time by the Issuer by a written
-320 -



June Meeting, 1989


notice filed at least 15 days prior to the effective date of such removal with the Remarketmg Agent and
the Transfer Agent. Upon the resignation or removal of the Remarketdig Agent, the Remkareting Agent
shall pay over, deliver and assign any moneys and Bonds held by it in such capacity to its successor.
(c) If the position of Remarketing Agent shall become vacant for any reason, or if the
Remarketing Agent gives notice of its resignation as provided in this Section 306 hereof, the Issuer shall
immediately use its best efforts to appoint a successor Remarketing Agent to fill the vacancy. A written
acceptance of office shall be filed by the successor Remarketing Agent in the manner set forth in
subsection (a) hereof. Any successor Remarketing Agent shall be a member of the National Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc., having a capitalization of at least $50 000000 or alternatively maintaining a
line of credit from a commercial bank having a capitalization o? at feast $2000,000) an be authorized
by law to perform all of the duties imposed on it under this Resolution.
(d) The Remarketing Agent shall perform the duties and obligations set forth in this Resolution,
and in particular shall:
(1) use its best efforts to solicit purchases of Bonds tendered, and deemed tendered and
Bonds purchased by the Issuer from investors able to purchase municipal bonds, effectuate and
process such purposes, bill and receive payment for Bonds purchased, and perform related
functions in connection with the remarketing of Bonds hereunder; and
(2) keep such books and records as shall be consistent with prudent industry practice and
which will document its action taken hereunder, and make such books and records available for
inspection by the Issuer at all reasonable times, and
(3) comply at all times with all applicable state and federal securities laws and other
statutes, rules and regulations applicable to the offering and sale of the Bonds.
(e) In performing its duties and obligations hereunder, the Remarketing Agent shall use the
same degree of care and skill as a prudent person would exercise under the same circumstances in the
conduct of his or her own affairs. The Remarketing Agent shall not be liable in connection with the
performance of its duties hereunder except for its own wilful misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith.
(f) The Remarketing Agent may deal in Bonds and with the Issuer to the same extent and with
the same effect as provided with respect to the Transfer Agent in this Resolution.
(g) Issuer and Transfer Agent shall each cooperate to cause the necessary arrangements to be
made and thereafter continued whereby Bonds prepared, executed, authenticated and issued hereunder
shall be made available to the Remarketing Agent to the extent necessary for delivery pursuant to Section
304 hereof, and to otherwise enable the Remarketing Agent to carry out its duties hereunder.
(h) With respect to all Bonds purchased by the Issuer, and all Bonds subject to purchase on a
Tender Date, which are to be remarketed, the Remarketing Agent shall offer for sale and use its best
efforts to sell all such Bonds at a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if any,
and with an interest rate determined by the Remarketing Agent as provided in Section 303' provided,
that the Remarketing Agent shall not remarket Bonds purchased by the Issuer unless and until the Issuer
delivers an opinion of Miller, Canfield, Paddock and Stone, or its successor, that such Bonds following
remarketinmg, will be valid and binding obligations of the Issuer and that the exclusion of the minterest on
the Bonds from gross income for federal income tax purposes following remarketing will not have been
adversely affected by the holding of the Bonds by the Issuer.
(i) Any Bond purchased pursuant to Section 304 hereof during the period followin notice of a
change in the nterest ate Perio or a notice of redemption thereof shall not be renmarkete except to a
purchaser who is provided with a notice to the same effect as the notice to be given Bondholders
pursuant to Section 304 hereof or Section 310 hereof, as the case may be.
(j) The proceeds of sale of any Bonds (other than Bonds held by the Issuer) sold by the
Remarketing Agent pursuant to (a) above shall be transferred by the Remarketing Agent to the sellers of
such Bonds in accordance with this Resolution. The proceeds of the remarketing oT Bonds held by the
Issuer shall be transferred by or at the direction of the Issuer to the Issuer in immediately available funds
on the date of remarketing in the manner as shall be specified by the Issuer to the Remarketing Agent.
(k) The Issuer acknowledges that, in carrying out its responsibilities hereunder, the Remarketing
Agent shall be acting solely for the benefit of and as agent for the owners from time to time of the Bonds.
No delivery of Bonds to the Remarketing Agent or any agent of the Remarketing Agent or purchase of
Bonds by the Remarketing Agent shall constitute a redemption of the Bonds or any extinguishment of
the debt evidenced thereby.
(1) Subject to the laws of escheat, the Remarketin Agent shall hold moneys representing the
Purchase Price, min trust, without liability for interest thereon tor the benefit of the owners of Undelivered
Bonds.
-321 -



June Meeting, 1989


Section 307 The Transfer Agent.
(a) The Transfer Agent shall designate in writing to the Issuer its principal office and the
location in the City of New York where it or its agents will accept Bonds for transFer and signify its
acceptance of the duties and obligations imposed upon it hereunder by a written instrument of
acceptance delivered to the Issuer. The Transfer Agent shall also be paying agent, registrar and
authentication agent hereunder with respect to the Bonds. By such acceptance, the Transfer Agent will
agree, particularly:
(i) to perform all duties of the Transfer Agent with respect to notices, the tender and
purchase of Bonds and the deposit, holding and payment of funds as specified in this Resolution;
(ii) to keep such books and records as shall be consistent with prudent industry practice,
and make such books and records available for inspection by the Issuer at all reasonable times.
(b) The Transfer Agent may not be relieved from liability for its own gross negligence or willful
misconduct except that:
(i) the Transfer Agent need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this
Resolution to be performed by it as the Transfer Agent and no others;
(ii) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Transfer Agent may conclusively rely, as to
the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed upon certificates or
opinions furnished to the Transfer Agent and conforming to the requirements    of this
Resolution, however, the Transfer Agent shall examine the certificates and opinions to determine
whether they conform to the requirements of this Resolution;
iii) the Transfer Agent shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by
an officer of the Transfer Agent, unless it is proved that the Transfer Agent was negligent in
ascertaining the pertinent facts;
(jiv) no provision of this Resolution shall require the Transfer Agent to expend or risk its
own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties
hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, and
(v) the Transfer Agent shall not be liable for interest on any cash held by it except as the
Transfer Agent may agree with the Issuer or as may be provided in this Resolution.
Every provision of this Resolution that in any way relates to the Transfer Agent is subject to all
the paragraphs of this Section.
(c) (i) Subject to the foregoing, the Transfer Agent may rely on any document believed by it to
be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper person. The Transfer Agent need not
investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
(ii Before the Transfer Agent acts or refrains from acting, it may re uire a certificate of an
appropriate oficer or officers of the Issuer or an opinion of counsel. The Transfer Agent shall not be
liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on the certificate or opinion of
counsel.
(iii) The Transfer Agent may act through agents, but shall be responsible for the
misconduct or negligence of any agent.
(d) The Transfer Agent makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of the Bonds, and
it shall not be accountable for the use of the proceeds from the Bonds, and it shall not be responsible for
any statement in the Bonds other than its certificate of authentication.
(e) For acting under this Resolution, the Transfer Agent shall be entitled to receive from the
Issuer payment of reasonable fees for its services and reimbursement of advances, counsel fees and other
expense reasonably and necessarily made or incurred by the Transfer Agent in connection with its
services under this Resolution.
The Transfer Agent shall be indemnified for and be saved harmless by the Issuer from Adjusted
Gross Athletic Revenues against, any loss, liability or damages incurred without negligence or willful
misconduct on its part arising out of or in connection with the exercise or performance of its powers and
duties hereunder, and such indemnification shall include the costs and expenses of defending the
Transfer Agent against any claim or liability in the premises.
(f) The Transfer Agent may become a creditor, directly or indirectly, of the Issuer, make any
loan or loans thereto, hold any form of indebtedness thereof (including the Bonds), own, accept or
negotiate any drafts, bills of exchange, acceptances or obligations thereof, make disbursements thereof
-322 -



June Meeting, 1989


and enter into any commercial or business arrangement therewith without limitation, all without any
liability for any real or apparent conflict of interest by reason of any such dealings.
(g) The Issuer and the Remarketing Agent shall each cooperate to cause the necessary
arrangements to be made and to be thereafter continued to enable the Transfer Agent to carry out its
duties hereunder.
(h) The Transfer Agent and the Remarketing Agent, if different, shall cooperate to the extent
necessary to permit the preparation, execution, issuance, authentication and delivery by the Transfer
Agent of replacement Bonds in connection with the tender and remarketing of Bonds hereunder.
(i) The Transfer Agent may resign and be discharged of the duties and obligations created by
this Resolution by giving at least sixty (60) days' notice by mail to the Issuer and the Remarketing Agent.
The Transfer Agent may be removed at any time following 60 days notice to the Transfer Agent the
Remarketing Agent and the holders of Bonds (the latter to be mailed first class to the registered holders
at the registered addresses) by an instrument signed by the Issuer. A successor Transfer Agent shall be
appointed by the Issuer and shall be a corporation duly organized under the laws of the United States of
America or any state or territory thereof having a combined capital stock surplus and undivided profits
of at least Fifty Million Dollars ($50,000,000), authorized by law to perorm all of the duties imposed
upon it by this Resolution and having an office in New York, New York. No removal or resignation will
be effective until a successor has delivered an acceptance of its appointment to the Issuer.
Section 308 Execution. Authentication and Deliveryv. The Bonds shall be signed in the name of
and on behalf of the Issuer by facsimile signature of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or
Controller of the University, printed, lithographed or engraved thereon. No Bond shall be valid until
authenticated by an authorized officer or agent of the Transfer Agent. The Bonds, when executed and
authenticated, shall be delivered by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller to
the Purchaser thereof upon payment of the purchase price therefor determined as provided in Section
1001 hereof. Executed blank Bonds for registration of transfer shall be delivered to the Transfer Agent
for safekeeping concurrently with the delivery of the Bonds, and from time to time thereafter as
necessary.
In case any officer a facsimile of whose signature shall appear on any Bonds shall cease to be
such officer before the delivery of such Bonds either as part of the initial delivery of the Bonds or in
connection with a transfer or exchange such facsimile shall nevertheless be valid and sufficient for all
purposes the same as if he had remained in office until such delivery. The Transfer Agent's certificate of
authentication of any Bond shall be deemed to have been executed by it if signed by an authorized
signatory of the Transfer Agent, but it shall not be necessary that the same person sign the certificate of
authentication on all of the Bonds issued hereunder.
Section 309 (A) Optional Redemption of Series 1989 Variable Rate Bonds. The Series 1989
Variable Rate Bonds may be redeemed, in part or min whole, prior to maturity, at the option of the Issuer
on any date, at a price of par, plus accrued interest, without premium. If the Issuer shall determine to
redeem Bonds prior to the maturity thereof, it shall give notice thereof in writing to the Transfer Agent
not less than forty-five (45) days prior to the date upon which the Bonds are to be redeemed, which
notice shall specify the principal amount of the Bonds to be redeemed; provided, that the Transfer Agent
may waive such notice requirement.
(B) Mandatory Redemption of Series 1989 Variable Rate Bonds. Series 1989 Variable Rate
Bonds are subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption at a price equal to 100% of the principal
amount plus accrued interest on June 1 min the years and in the amounts determined by the Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer or Controller of the Issuer in connection with the sale of the Bonds;
provided that the Issuer may at its option and in the order it selects, receive a credit against any such
amount for Bonds previously redeemed (other than pursuant to a previous mandatory redemption
requirement) or surrendered by the Issuer to the Transfer Agent for cancellation. The Issuer shall give
written notice to the Transfer Agent at least 45 days prior to the mandatory redemption date of any
credit to be so taken by the Issuer for such date.
(C) Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds. Series 1989 Fixed Rate Bonds shall not be subject to
redemption prior to maturity.
(D) Bonds shall be selected for redemption by lots provided that the Issuer ma direct the
Transfer Agent to redeem Bonds held by the Issuer or the Remarketing Agent prior to other Bonds.
On or before the date fixed for redemption, the Issuer shall pay to the Transfer Agent for deposit in the
Bond Fund, in addition to any other payments that may be required by this Resolution, a sum which,
together with moneys then on hand in the Bond Fund and available therefor, shall be sufficient to pay the
principal of and interest on the Bonds to be redeemed.
Section 310 Notice of Redemption. Notice of redemption of any Bond shall be given at least
thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed for redemption by mail to the registered holder or holders of the
-323 -



June Meeting, 1989


Bonds to be reeeme    at the registeed addresses shown on the Bond Re ster kept by the Transfer
Agent. Bonds shall be called for redemption in multiples of $100,000 and fonds of denominations of
more than $100 000 shall be treated as representing the number of Bonds obtained by dividing the
denomination of the Bond by $100,000 and such Bonds may be redeemed in part. The notie ceof
redemption for Bonds redeemed in part shall state that upon nsurrender of the Bond to be redeemed a
new Bond or Bonds in like aggregate principal amount and maturity to the unredeemed portion of the
Bond surrendered shall be issued to the registered holder thereof, without cost to the holder.
Interest on the Bonds or portions of Bonds so called for redem tion shall cease to accrue after
the redemption date specified in said notice, whether presented for redemption or not, provided funds
are on deposit with the Transfer Agent to pay the redemption price thereof.
Section 311 Form of Issuance and Transfer of the Bonds. The Bonds shall be issued in the form
of fully-registered bonds without coupons. Any Bond may be exchanged for Bonds of other authorized
denomiations, or transferred upon the books required to be kept pursuant to this section by the person
in whose name it is registered, in person or by his duly atho  aettorney, upon surrender of the Bond
for cancellation, accompanied by delivery of a duly executed written instrument of transfer in a form
approved by the Transfer Agent. Whener any Bond or Bonds shall be surerendere  for transfer or
exchange, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the University shall execute
or cause to be executed, as specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver a new
Bond or Bonds, in like aggregate principal amount and wit like interest rate and maturity. The
Transfer Agent shall require the pa  y he Bondholder requesting the transfer or exchange of any
tax or other governmental charge required to be paid with respect to the transfer or exchange.  The
Transfer Agent shall keep or cause to be kept, at its principal office, sufficient books for the reistration
and transfer of the Bonds, which shall at all times be open to inspection at reasonable times by t0e Issuer
and its auditors or their designees. Upon presentation for such purpose, the Transfer Agent shall, under
such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, transfer or cause to be transferred, on said books, Bonds
as hereinbefore provided.
The form of the Bonds shall be substantially as set forth in Exhibit A.
Section 312 Mutilated Bonds. Subject to and in accordance with Act 354, Public Acts of
Michigan, 1972, as amended "Act 354"), if any bond shall become mutilated, the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the University, at the expense of the holder of the Bond, and
without further action being required of the Issuer, shall execute or cause to be executed in the manner
specified above, and the Transfer Agent shall authenticate and deliver a new Bond of like tenor in
exchange and substitution for the mutilated bond, upon surrender to the Transfer Agent of the mutilated
Bond and receipt by the Transfer Agent and the Issuer of indemnity satisfactory to them. Subject to and
in accordance with Act 354, if any bond issued under this Resolution shall be lost, destroyed or stolen,
evidence of the loss, destruction or theft may be submitted to the Transfer Agent and if this evidence is
satisfactory to both the Transfer Agent and the Issuer and indemnity satis-factory to the Transfer Agent
and the Issuer shall be given, the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller, at the
expense of the owner, and without further action being required of the Issuer, shall execute or cause to
be executed in the manner specified above and the Transfer Agent shall thereupon authenticate and
deliver, a new Bond of like tenor and bearing the statement required by Act 354, or any applicable
Michigan law hereafter enacted, in lieu of and in substitution for the Bond so lost, destroyed or stolen. If
any such Bond shall have matured or shall be about to mature, instead of issuing a substitute bond the
Transfer Agent may pay the same without surrender thereof.
Section 313 Cancellation of Bonds. All Bonds which have been retired by maturity, redemption
or purchase shall be cancelled by the Transfer Agent and an appropriate certificate of cancellation with
respect thereto delivered to the Issuer. Upon request of the Issuer all cancelled Bonds shall be cremated
and an appropriate certificate of cremation delivered to the Issuer by the Transfer Agent.
ARTICLE IV
ESTABLISHMENT OF FUNDS
Section 401 Estabfishment of Proect Fund. There is hereby created and established the Pro ject
Fund, which shall be a subaccount within a general banking account of the Issuer designated by the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the University  There shall be deposited in the Project Fund all
proceeds from the sale of the Bonds. All moneys inthe Project Fund shal be used for the purposes and
disbursed as provided in Article V.
Section 402 Establishment of Bond Fund. There is hereby created and established with the
Transfer Agent the Bond Fund. There shall be deposited in the Bond Fund:
1. Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues as pledged and required to be paid into the Bond
Fund at the times and in the amounts provided in Section 504.
2. All Legally Available Funds required to be paid into the Bond Fund pursuant to Section
505.
-324 -



June Meeting, 1989


3. All Investment Income, and investment earnings on the Project Fund.  4. Any
moneys remaining in the Project Fund after the disbursements provided for in Article V
which are directed to be so deposited by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of the University. All moneys in the Bond Fund shall be used for the purposes and
disbursed as provided in Article V.
Section 403 Establishment of Revenue Fund. There was created and established by the Prior
Resolution the Revenue Fund, as a subaccount within a general banking account of the Issuer designated
by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University.  rom and after the date of delivery
of the Bonds there shall be deposited in the Revenue Fund as received all Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues. All moneys in the Revenue Fund shall be used for the purposes and disbursed as provided in
Article V.
ARTICLE V
FLOW AND USE OF FUNDS
Section 501 Application of Bond Proceeds. Immediately upon the receipt thereof, the proceeds
of the sale of the Bonds shall be eposited in the Project Fund.
Section 502 Use of and Disbursements from Project Fund. Moneys in the Project Fund shall be
used pursuant to the following purposes (the "Project Costs"):
1.  Payment of accounti, fin nancial consulting, legal, printing and other expenses of the
University in connection with the preparation, issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds;
2.  Payments necessary to finance the cost of the construction and equipping of the Project or to
reimburse the Issuer for general funds expended in connection with the foregoing.
Upon disbursement of all funds in the Project Fund, if the Project shall then be incomplete, the Issuer
shall complete the Project using available funds. Any amount remaining in the Pro ect Fund after
satisfaction of the foregoing priorities shall, as directed by the Issreuergoing prioritiesed onshall as directed by the Ion e next Interest
Payment Date to pay debt service on the Bonds, or used by the Issuer for payment of any other lawful
capital costs of the Issuer relating to the Program as determined by the Issuer. The depository for the
Project Fund shall make disbursements from the Project Fund u on the order of the Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer, Controller or Investment Officer of the University and shall have no duty or
liability with respect to the manner or method in which moneys are withdrawn by the Issuer from the
Project Fund or in fact are used or applied by the Issuer.
Section 503 Use of and Disbursements from Bond Fund. The Transfer Agent shall use moneys
in the Bond Fund to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest on th e Bondsame become due
and, in the case of principal, as the Bonds are presented and surrendered. The Transfer Agent may use
moneys in the Bond Fund not required to pay principal and interest on the Bonds on the next interest
payment date for the acquisition of Bonds in the open market at the written direction of the Issuer. Any
amounts remaining in the Bond Fund after the Bonds have been paid or provision made therefor under
the Resolution shall be returned to the Issuer.
Section 504 Use of and Disbursements from Revenue Fund. On or before the date prior to each
interest payment date, the Issuer shall transfer or cause to be transferred from the Revenue Fund to the
Bond Fund sufficient moneys (together with funds then on hand in the Bond Fund) to pay the interest or
principal and interest due on the Bonds on such interest payment date. The Issuer shall transfer to the
bond funds established for the Outstanding Bonds and any additional Parity Obligations sufficient
moneys to pay the interest or principal, premium, if any, and interest due on any additional Parity
Obligations on or before the interest payment dates for such Parity Obligations. Prior to making the
transfers required by the preceding sentences, the Issuer shall use moneys in the Revenue Fund solely,
together with other funds of the Issuer derived from or related to the Program to pay Operating Costs;
provided, however that the Issuer shall manage the Program and the payment of Operating Costs in such
a manner that sufficient funds shall be available in the Revenue Fund to make the transfers to the Bond
Fund and to the bond funds established for the Outstanding Bonds and any additional Parity Obligations
on the dates required. After making the required transfers to the Bond Fund and to the bond funds
established for any additional Parity Obligations as required by this Section 504, and after the payment of
Operating Costs min each Fiscal Year, Surplus Revenues maybe withdrawn from the Revenue Fund and
used for any lawful purpose of the University. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as long as Cede & Co. is
holder of all Bonds, the Issuer may pay the principal and interest due on the Bonds directly to Cede &
Co., with notification thereof to the Transfer Agent.
Section 505 Covenant to Use Legally Available Funds. To the extent that on any date on which
any payment is required to be made from the Bond Fund pursuant to Section 503, the amounts on
deposit in the Bond Fund are insufficient to make such payment, the Issuer covenants to transfer to the
Transfer Agent from any Legally Available Funds the amount sufficient to make up such payment
deficiency and the Transfer Agent shall use the amount so transferred to make up such deficiency.
-325 -



June Meeting, 1989


Section 506 Investment of Funds. Moneys held in the Bond Fund, until required for use shall be
invested by Transfer Agent at the direction of the Issuer, in writing or orally (promptly confirmed in
writing) in direct obligations of, or obligations the principal and the interest of which are guaranteed by
the Umted States of America; or obligations of Federal Farm Credit Bans, Federal Home Loan Banks,
the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Land Bank, Federal Intermediate Credit Banks
the ExportImport Bank ofthe United States, the Government National Mortgage Association, the Bank
for Cooperatives, the Federal Financing Bank, the Farmers Home Administration and the Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Association; or tax-exempt obligations rated A or better by Moody's Investors Service
and Standard and Poor's Corporation in the case of long-term obligations, or in the highest category at
each such rating agency in the case of short-term obligations; or may be deposited in a bank or banks
(including the Transfer Agent) in an interest bearing savings account or accounts, bankers' acceptances
or in certificates of deposit; or may be invested in any fund or fund composed entirely of any or all of the
above-described investment vehicles (provided that, with respect to tax-exempt obligations in such funds,
the obligations need not be rated A or better, but rather must be, or be deemed to be by the fund's
sponsor or adviser, investment grade), all as shall be directed by the Issuer. Moneys held in the Project
Fund and the Revenue Fund may be invested in any investments legally available for University funds.
The Remarketing Agent shall hold funds received to pay the Purchase Price of Bonds required to
be purchased in a separate account, and shall not invest such funds.
Interest or profit earned on the investments or deposits of the Bond Fund and the Project Fund
when received shall be deposited in the Bond Fund. Any loss on such investments or deposits shall be
charged to the Bond Fund or Project Fund, as appropriate.
Section 507 Tax Covenant. The Issuer hereby covenants that, to the extent permitted by law, it
shall take all actions within its control necessary to maintain the exclusion of the interest on the Bonds
from gross income for federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the
"Code) including but not limited to, actions relating to the rebate of arbitrage earnings, if required, and
the expenditure and investment of Bond proceeds and moneys deemed to be Bond proceeds.
ARTICLE VI
SOURCES OF PAYMENT AND SECURITY FOR THE BONDS
Section 601 Securitv for the Bonds. The Bonds are not debts or general obligations of the State
of Michigan, nor general obligations of the Issuer, but are limited obligations of the ssuer, equally and
ratably secured only by the following:
1. All moneys and investments in the Bond Fund;
2.  Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and the Issuer's right to receive Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues; and
3.  All moneys and investments in the Revenue Fund.
The Issuer hereby pledges and grants to the Bondholders a security interest in all of the foregoing and in
order to assure this security the Issuer covenants and agrees that the Bondholders shall have a first lien
on all moneys in the Bond Fund, and that Bondholders shall have a first lien against Adjusted Gross
Athletic Revenues and moneys in the Revenue Fund of equal standing and priority of lien with the pledge
of Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues for the outstanding Bonds andadditional Parity Obligations which
the Issuer reserves the right to issue under Article VII. The lien of the pledge of the Adusted Gross
Athletic Revenues, and on the Bond Fund and the Revenue Fund, shall be valid and binding from the
date of issuance and delivery of the Bonds and all moneys or properties subject thereto which are
thereafter received shall immediately be subject to the lien of the pledge without physical delivery or
further act. The lien of the pledge shall be valid and binding against all parties having claim in tort,
contract or otherwise against the Issuer (except for the holders of the outstanding Bonds and any
additional Parity Obligations of the Issuer payable from a first lien on Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues) irrespective of whether such parties have notice of the lien.
Section 602 Limitations of Obligations. No recourse under any obligation, covenant, stipulation
or indenture contained in this Reso ution or in any Bond issued hereunder or caused by the creation of
any indebtedness hereby authorized, shall be had against the State of Michigan, or the Issuer or any
member or officer of the Issuer or the University; nor shall any such obligation ever be or become a
charge against the State of Michigan, nor shall the same become a lien on or secured by any property
real, personal or mixed, of the State of Michigan or the Regents, it being expressly understood and
agreed that the Bonds and the obligations created hereunder are secured only by Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues and moneys in the Bond Fund and Revenue Fund and are additionally payable from Legally
Available Funds to the extent provided herein and that no other liability whatsoever shall attach to or be
incurred by the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or any member or officer of the Issuer or the University, or
its successors; all other liability, except as herein provided, being expressly waived.


-326 -



June Meeting, 1989


ARTICLE VII
ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIGATIONS AND DEFEASANCE
Section 701 Additional Parity Obligations. The Issuer reserves the right to issue additional
Parity Obligations as Fixed Rate Bonds or Variable Rate Bonds for any authorized purpose relating to
the Program having equal standing and priority of lien against the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues
with the Bonds and the Outstanding Bonds, provided that the Issuer by the Controller of the University
certifies that the average of Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues for the two most recently completed
Fiscal Years for which the audited financial reports have been completed (the latest of which shall have
ended within 18 months prior to the issuance of the proposed additional Parity Obligations), are equal to
or greater than 200% of the maximum future Annual Debt Service on the Bonds, the Outstanding Bonds
any previously issued additional Parity Obligations secured on a parity basis with the Bonds and the
additional Parity Obligations proposed to be issued; provided, further, however, that additional Parity
Obligations (in any form or designation) may be issued to evidence the Issuer's reimbursement
obligations under a Credit Support Instrument securing any Parity Obligations which were issued in
compliance with the foregoing tests.
Section 702 Defeasance. If all the Bonds shall have become due and payable in accordance with
their terms or are to be paid at their maturity or maturities or are to be redeemed prior to maturity
(notice of redemption or irrevocable instructions to the Transfer Agent to mail such notice, having been
duly given) and the whole amount of the principal and interest so due and payable upon all of the londs
then outstanding shall be paid or sufficient cash, or cash and noncallable Government Obligations, the
principal of and the interest on which without reinvestment, when due and payable, will provide sufficient
moneys for such payment (with interest computed at the Maximum Rate for any Bonds the interest on
which may be adjusted prior to their maturity or specified redemption date), and sufficient to pay the full
Purchase Price of any Bond subject to optional tender prior to the maturity or specified redemption date,
shall be held by the Transfer Agent in the Bond Fund or by any other escrow agent in trust for the
benefit of the holders of the Bonds, then and in that case the Resolution shall be defeased and
terminated and all obligations of the Issuer hereunder shall thereupon cease, terminate and become void
and, on demand of the Issuer, any surplus in the Bond Fund other than money held for the payment of
the Bonds shall be transferred to the Issuer; provided, that the applicable provisions of this Resolution
pertaining to the adjustment of interest rates, purchases of Bonds payment of the principal of and
interest on the Bonds and redemption and registration and transfer and exchange ol Bonds shall be
continued in force until such have been fully paid.
Bonds or portions of Bonds for which cash or cash and Government Obligations (including
principal of and interest thereon) shall be held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent in trust for
the holders of said Bonds or portions of Bonds sufficient to pay all principal and interest (at the
Maximum Rate for any Bond the rate on which may be adjusted prior to the maturity or specified
redemption date) thereof through maturity or earlier redemption (notice of redemption, or irrevocable
instructions to the Transfer Agent to mail such notice, having been duly given) and sufficient to pay the
full Purchase Price of any Bond subject to optional tender prior to maturity or the specified redemption
date, shall no longer be outstanding hereunder, and the holders thereof shall have no further rights
hereunder or under the Bonds except the right to receive payment from the cash or cash and
Government Obligations held in trust as specified above and the right to effect tenders, transfers or
exchanges of Bonds as described herein.
All moneys and Government Obligations held by the Transfer Agent or other escrow agent as
described above shall be held in trust and applied to the purchase or payment, when due, of the Bonds
payable therewith.
ARTICLE VIII
FURTHER COVENANTS AND LIMITATION ON RECOURSE OF BONDHOLDERS
The Issuer covenants and agrees with the holders of the Bonds as follows:
Section 801 Operation and Maintenance of the Program. The Issuer covenants that it will at all
times when Bonds are outstanding use its best efforts to operate the Program on a self-liquidating basis
in such a manner so that sufficient Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues will be generated, together with
other available funds, to pay principal and interest on the Bonds, the Outstanding Bonds and additional
Parity Obligations when due and all Operating Costs, and shall maintain the facilities used in the
Program in a sufficient manner to allow its operation in accordance with this sentence.
Section 802 Budget for Operation of the Program. The Issuer hereby covenants to annually
establish a budget for the operation of the Program for each Fiscal Year sufficient to provide Adjusted
Gross Athletic Revenues equal to in each FiscalYear commencing after the delivery of the Bonds to and
including the Fiscal Year in which the last payment of principal on the Bonds is to be paid at least 200%
of that Fiscal Year's debt service requirements on the Bonds, the Outstanding Bonds and additional
Parity Obligations (excluding debt service scheduled to be paid from capitalized interest or reserves).
The Issuer further covenants to establish and maintain, so long as any of the Bonds are outstanding, such
-327 -



June Meeting, 1989


admission fees as from time to time may be necessary to operate the Program, in such a manner as to
provide sufficient Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues, togeth  other with otheavailable funds to pay the
principal and interest on the Bonds the Outstanding Bonds and additional Parity Obligations, and all
Operatmg Costs, and to meet the budget requirements set forth above.
Section 803 Covenant not to Mortgage or Encumber. The Issuer hereby covenants that except
as specifically permitted hereby, it will not mortgage, create or allow the creation of a lien on, or
otherwise encumber the Adjustd   oss Ahletic Revenues, so longa as any Bonds are outstanding, except
as specifically provided herein.
Section 804 Insurance on Completed Project. The Issuer covenants and agrees that it will
procure and maintain insurance or sel-insurance programs with respect to the facilities and operations of
the Program substantially similar to those customarily maintained for like facilities, but only to the extent
such insurance is reasonably available in the insurance market of the United States.
Insurance required above may be evidenced by inclusion of the facilities of the Program in and
under a blanket policy covering the facilities of the Program and other properties of the Issuer, or by
umbrella coverage. The Issuer may adopt alternative or supplemental risk management programs which
the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University determines to be reasonabe and which
shall not, in the opinion of such officer, have a  ateri ad impact on the Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues, including, without limitation, the right: to self-insure in whole or in part; to organize, either
solely or in connection with other institutions or organizations, captive insurance companies; to
participate in programs of captive insurance companies organized by others; to establish a self-insurance
trust fund; to participate in mutual or other cooperative insurance or other risk management programs
with other institutions or organizations; to participate in or enter into agreements with local, state or
federal governments in order to achieve such insurance; or to participate in other alternative risk
management programs.
Section 805 Audits and Records. The Issuer shall keep and maintain accurate books and records
relating to the collection of Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues and the payment of Operating Costs and
the payments into the Revenue Fund and the Bond Fund which said books and records shall be open for
inspection by the Transfer Agent and any holder of the bonds at any reasonable time. Said boo ks and
records shall be audited annually by a certified public accountant (which audit may be performed as part
of the general audit of the University's funds). Copies of the annual audit shall be supplied to holders of
the Bonds who request the same in writing, upon payment of reasonable expenses in connection
therewith.
Section 806 Performance of Covenants: Authority. The Issuer shall faithfully perform all of its
covenants, undertakings, provisions and agreements contained in the Resolution and in any Bond
executed and delivered hereunder and in all other proceedings of the Issuer pertaining thereto. The
Issuer is duly authorized under the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan to adopt the
Resolution, to issue the Bonds, to pledge Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues in the manner and to the
extent herein set forthand to construct and to construct and equip the Project as contemplated by this Resolution; all
action on its part relating to the adoption of the Resolution and the issuance execution and delivery of
any Bonds has been or will be duly and effectively taken prior to the delivery of such Bonds; and the
Bonds in the hands of the holders and owners thereof are and will be valid and enforceable limited
obligations of the Issuer according to their terms.
Section 807 Limited Recourse. There shall be no recourse under any obligation, covenant, or
agreement contained in the Resolution or any Bond against the State of Michigan or the Issuer or any
member or officer of the Issuer or the University, it being expressly understood and agreed that the
Bonds and the obligations hereunder are secured only by Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues or moneys
at such time in the ond Fund and the Revenue Fund and payable solely from such sources or Legally
Available Funds as provided herein.
ARTICLE IX
SUPPLEMENTAL RESOLUTIONS
Section 901 Supplemental Resolutions Not Requiring Consent of Bondholders. The Issuer may
without the consent of the Bondholders ad opt resolutions supplemental to the Resolution as shall not be
inconsistent with the terms and provisions hereof and which min the good faith judgment of the Issuer, are
not materially adverse to the interest of the holder of the Bonds, Tor any one or more of the following
purposes:
(a) To provide for the issuance and sale of additional Parity Obligations;
(b) To confirm or further assure the pledge of the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues or to
grant or pledge to the Bondholders any additional security;


-328 -



June Meeting, 1989


(c) To add additional covenants and agreements of the Issuer for the purpose of further
securing the payment of the Bonds;
(d To prescribe further limitations and restrictions upon the issuance of Parity Obligations
by the ssuer;
(e) To cure any ambiguity or formal defect or omission in the Resolution;
(f) To amend or subtract from or make substitutions for the Project.
Section 902 Supplemental Resolutions Requiring Consent of Bondholders. Exclusive of
supplemental resolutions covered by Section 901 for which consent of Bondholders is not required, the
holders of not less than 51% in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding shall have the
right to consent to the adoption by the Issuer of such other supplemental or amendatory resolutions as
shall be deemed necessary and desirable by the Issuer; provided however, that nothing contained in this
Section shall permit or be construed as permitting, (i) an extension of the maturity of the principal of or
the interest on any Bond issued hereunder, or (ii) a reduction in the principal amount or Purchase Price
of any Bond or the rate of interest thereon, or (in) a privilege or priority of any Bond or Bonds over any
other Bond or Bonds, or (iv) a reduction in the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds required for
consent to such supplemental or amendatory resolution.
If the Issuer shall propose to adopt a supplemental resolution requirin  consent of the
Bondholders, it shall cause notice of the proposed adoption of such supplemental resolution to be mailed
to each registered owner at the registered address as shown on the books of the Issuer kept by the
Transfer Agent. Such notice shall briefly set forth the nature of the proposed supplemental or
amendatory resolution and shall state that copies thereof are on file at the Investment Office of the
University for inspection by all Bondholders. If within six months following the publication of such
notice, the holders of not less than 51% in aggregate principal amount of the Bonds outstanding at the
time of the mailing of such notice have consented in writing to the adoption thereof, upon the adoption of
such supplemental or amendatory resolution, the Resolution shall be deemed to be amended in
accordance therewith. Holders of Bonds of denominations greater than the minimum authorized
denominations may vote separately with respect to each minimum authorized denomination.
ARTICLE X
EVENTS OF DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
If the Issuer shall fail to pay any installment of principal or interest on any Bond when due, or
shall fail to pay the Purchase Price of any Bond required hereby to be purchased by the Issuer on any
Tender Date, such failure shall constitute an "Event of Default" hereunder. Upon te occurrence of an
Event of Default, the holder of any Bond with respect to which the Event of Default has occurred may, in
addition to any other remedies available in law or equity, bring action in a court of appropriate
jurisdiction upon the Bond and to enforce the obligation of the Issuer thereunder and hereunder.
ARTICLE Xi
SALE OF BONDS AND PREPARATION OF OFFICIAL STATEMENT
Section 1101 Arrangements for Sale of Bonds. The Bonds shall be sold by the Issuer to the
Purchaser, pursuant to the Bond Purchase Agreement, at a purchase price to be determined by the Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer or the Controller of the University (but the underwriter's discount,
as opposed to any original issue discount, shall not exceed 1.75% of the principal amount of the Bonds)
and otherwise in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in this Resolution. The initial
interest rate shall be approved by one of the officers designated above.
Section 1102 Approval of Official Statement. Preliminary Official Statement. Bond Purchase
Agreement and Remarleting Agreement. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, or the
Controller, or either of them are hereby authorized to cause to be prepared a Preliminary Official
Statement, and to execute and deliver on behalf of the Issuer an Official Statement, the Bond Purchase
Agreement, and the Remarketing Agreement, each relating to the Bonds. The distribution and use of
the Preliminary Official Statement in accordance with applicable laws by the Purchaser, in connection
with the marketing of the Bonds, is hereby approved, ratified and confirmed, and the distribution and use
of the Official Statement in accordance with applicable laws by the Purchaser, in connection with the
marketing of the Bonds, is hereby authorized and approved.
Section 1103 Resolution Constitutes Contract. The provisions of the Resolution shall constitute
a contract between the Issuer and Bondholders to the equa and ratable benefit and protection of each
Bondholder, and after delivery of the Bonds, no change, variation, or alteration of the provisions of the
Resolution may be made except in accordance with its terms.
Section 1104 Other Documentation. The Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
University, the Secretary of the University, the Controller of the University, and the Investment Officer,




June Meeting, 1989


and each of such persons and any other appropriate officers or representatives of the Issuer or the
University is authorized to execute and deliver al instruments and documents for and on behalf of the
Issuer required by this Resolution, the Bond Purchase Agreement, the Remarketing Agreement, or
necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds and the
acquisition, construction and equipping of the Project as contemplated hereby.
Subsequent to the issuance of the Bonds and except as otherwise specifically provided herein all
actions permitted or required by the Issuer may be made or undertaken by the Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer or Controller, or any other duly authorized officer of the Issuer or the University. All
determinations of Bond terms required to be made by the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer or
Controller shall be made by him within the ranges or other limitations set forth herein.
ARTICLE XII
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 1201 Severailitv. If any one or more sections, clauses or provisions of the Resolution
shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective for any reason, such
determination shall in no way affect the validity and effectiveness of the remaining sections, clauses and
provisions of the Resolution.
Section 1202 Headings. Any headings shall be solely for convenience of reference and shall not
constitute a part of the Resolution, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or effect.
Section 1203 Conflict. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer
in conflict herewith be and the same are repealed insofar as such conflict exists.
Section 1204 Effective Date. The Resolution shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.


-330 -



June Meeting, 1989


BOND FORM APPENDIX
United States of America -- State of Michigan
Regents of the University of Michigan
Variable Rate Demand Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bond, Series 1989
No. R-1                                                                         $8,000,000
Date of
Interest             Maturity                Original
Rate                 Date                   Issue                  CUSIP
Variable            June 1, 1994           July 12, 1989           914454V42
Registered Owner: CEDE & Co.
Principal Amount: Eight Million Dollars
The Regents of the University of Michigan, a body corporate created by and existing under the
constitution of the State of Michigan (hereinafter sometimes called the "Issuer") for value received,
promises to pay to the Registered Owner specified above, or registered assigns, the principal amount
specified above on the Maturity Date specified above, upon the resentation and surrender hereof at the
principal corporate trust office of Comerica Bank-Detroit, Detroit, Michigan or its successor (the
Transfer Agent") and to pay by check or draft mailed on the Interest Payment Dates to the Registered
Owner as of the Record Date (hereinafter defined) at the registered address interest on such principal
sum from the date hereof or such later date to which interest on the Bond in exchange for which this
Bond is issued has been paid until payment of such principal sum has been made or duly provided for, at
the interest rates and on the dates set forth herein. Both principal and interest are payable in lawful
money of the United States of America.
This Bond is one of an issue of Bonds (the "Bonds") of even date and like tenure, aggregating the
principal sum of $8,000,000 all issued pursuant to a Resolution (the "Resolution") duly a opted by the
Issuer on June 23, 1989. The proceeds of the Bonds will be utilized by the Issuer, together with other
available funds of the Issuer, for the purpose of paying part of the cost of constructing and equipping a
sports services facility (the "Project") and paying certain costs incurred in connection with the issuance
and sale of the Bonds, all in accordance with the authority vested in the Issuer by law, particularly Article
VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
The Bonds including this Bond, are equally and ratably secured by an irrevocable pledge of the
Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues (defined in the Resolution). The Bonds are also secured by the funds
from time to time on deposit in the Bond Fund and the Revenue Fund, each created pursuant to the
Resolution. The Bonds are secured on an equal and parity basis as to the Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues only with the outstanding bonds of the Issuer s Intercollegiate Athletic Revenue Bonds, Series
1987, dated April 15, 1987 (the "Outstanding Bonds"). In addition the Issuer has covenanted, to the
extent necessary, to pay, the principal of and interest on the Bonds from Legally Available Funds (as
defined in the Resolution). Except for the foregoing, no recourse shall be had for the payment of the
principal amount of or interest or premium on this ond or any claim based thereon against the State of
Michigan, the Issuer or any officer or agent thereof, or of the University of Michigan as individuals,
either directly or indirectly nor shall these obligations become a lien on or be secured by any property,
real, personal, or mixed, of the State of Michigan or the Issuer, other than the Adjusted Gross Athletic
Revenues and funds from time to time on deposit in the Revenue Fund and the Bond Fund, as more fully
described in the Resolution. By acceptance hereof and as a part of the consideration for the issuance
hereof, the registered owner hereof expressly waives all other recourse.
Each Bond shall be transferable only upon the books of the Issuer, by the Registered Owner
thereof in person or by his attorney duly authorized in writing, upon surrender thereof at the principal
corporate trust office of the Transfer Agent, together with written instrument of transfer satisfactory to
the Transfer Agent duly executed by the Registered Owner or a duly authorized attorney. Upon the
transfer of any Bond, the Transfer Agent shall issue in the name of the transferee and cause to be
authenticated a new Bond or Bonds of the same aggregate principal amount as the surrendered Bonds.
The Transfer Agent shall make a charge for such transfer or exchange sufficient to pay for any tax or
other governmental fee or charge required to be paid with respect to such transfer or exchange, but all
other costs of making such transfer or exchange shall be borne by the Issuer.
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the Bonds are issued, the sources from which
and the conditions under which this Bond is payable, the general covenants and provisions pursuant to
-331 -



June Meeting, 1989


which this Bond is issued, the rights of the holders of the Bonds, and the right of the Issuer to issue
additional obligations of equal standing and priority of lien with the Bonds and the Outstanding Bonds as
to the Adjusted Gross Athletic Revenues, and the terms and conditions under which this Bond and the
Bonds, or any part thereof, shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, reference is made to the
Resolution.
Any term used herein as a defined term but not defined herein shall be defined as in the
Resolution.
Prior to the conversion of the Bonds to the Fixed Rate Period the interest rate on all Bonds shall
be determined by the Remarketing Ag1ent, weekly semiannually or annually as provided in the
Resolution. The interest rate on the Bonds determined by the Rernarketing Agent shall be the interest
rate which, if borne by the Bonds, would, based upon current transactions in comparable securities in
which the Remarketing Agent is involved or of which it is aware and prevailing financial market
conditions, be the interest rate necessary to enable the Remarketinmg Agent to se such Bonds in the
secondary market at a price equal to the principal amount thereof pus accrued interest thereon;
provided, however, that (i) if, for any reason, the Remarketing Agent fails to make or to announce such
determination on such Interest Adjustment Date, the rate to tike effect shall be the rate already in effect
on the Interest Adjustment Date; and (ii) in no event shall the interest rate on the Bonds exceed the
Maximum Rate. Interest on the Bonds shall initially be payable at a Weekly Rate Period. The interest
rate determination method thereafter may be changed with respect to the Bonds as described in the
Resolution. A change in the interest rate determination method will result in a right to tender Bonds for
purchase as set forth in the Resolution. When a change in the interest rate determination method for
the Bonds is to be made, the Transfer Agent is required to notify Bondholders as provided in the
Resolution.
At the option of the Issuer, subject to the requirements of the Resolution, the Variable Rate
feature of the Bonds may be permanently terminated and in such event the Bonds shall thereafter bear
interest at a Fixed Rate determined in the manner provided in the Resolution. Prior to the date the
Bonds will begin to bear interest at a Fixed Rate (the 'Conversion Date") the Transfer Agent is required
to notify all Bondholders as provided in the Resolution. All Bonds will be subject to mandatory purchase
on the Conversion Date, subject to the right of the holders to waive the mandatory purchase upon
meeting the conditions therefor set forth in the Resolution.
During the Weekly Rate Period, interest on the Bonds shall be computed on the basis of the
actual number of days elapsed over a year of 365 or 366 days, as appropriate. During the Semiannual,
Annual or Fixed Rate Period, interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day
months.
"Business Day" means any day upon which the principal offices of the Transfer Agent and the
Remarketing Agent are open for business and on which the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. is not closed.
"Computation Period" means, (i) during a Weekly Rate Period, the day succeeding each
applicable Interest Adjustment Date through and including the next applicable Interest Adjustment Date,
(11) during a Semiannual Rate Period, each June 1 and December 1 through and including the next
succeeding November 30 and May 31 respectively; and (iii) during an Annual Rate Period, une 1 or
December 1, as applicable, through and including the next succeeding May 31 or November 30,
respectively; provided, however, that upon conversion from one Rate Period to any other Rate Period,
the relevant Computation Periods shall be adjusted as provided in Section 303(E) of the Resolution.
"Fixed Rate Bonds" means the Bonds from and after the effective date of conversion of the Bonds
to a Fixed Rate Period.
"Interest Adjustment Date" means (i) for any Weekly Rate Period, the Wednesday of each
calendar week or if such day is not a Business Day, then on the Business Day immediately succeeding
such day, commencing with the Interest Adjustment Date occurring during the calendar week next
following the calendar week during which the Bonds are issued and delivered to the original purchasers,
and (ii) Tor any Semiannual or Annual Rate Period, the Business Day specified by the Issuer in the
manner set forth in Section 303 of the Resolution.
"Interest Payment Dates" means (i) during the effectiveness of a Weekly Rate Period, each
March 1, June 1, September 1, and December 1 or, if such day is not a Business Day the next succeeding
Business Day, commencing September 1, 1989; and (ii) during the effectiveness of a Semiannual Rate
Period an Annual Rate Period or the Fixed Rate Period, each June 1 and December 1 or, if such day is
not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day.
"Interest Period" means (i) initially, the period from and including the date of original delivery of
the Bonds to the original Purchaser thereof to and including the day immediately preceding the first
Interest Payment Date, (ii) for any Weekly Rate Period each period commencing from and including the
most recent Interest Payment Date to and including tie day immediately preceding the next Interest
-332 -



June Meeting, 1989


Payment Date, and (iii) for any Semiannual Rate Period, Annual Rate Period or Fixed Rate Period, each
period commencing from and including each June 1 and December 1 to and including each November 30
and May 31, respectively; provided that upon conversion from any Rate Period to any other Rate Period
the last Interest Period for the Rate Period then in effect and the first Interest Period for the Rate Period
to take effect shall be determined as provided in Section 303(E) of the Resolution.
"Maximum Rate" means the lesser of fifteen percent (15%) per annum or the maximum interest
rate from time to time permitted by law with respect to the Bonds.
"Purchase Price" means, with respect to Bonds or portions of Bonds tendered or deemed
tendered for purchase pursuant to optional tender rights or mandatory purchases, the principal of such
Bonds or portions of Bonds, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the Tendeur Date.
"Rate Period" (Weekly Rate Period, Semiannual Rate Period, Annual Rate Period or Fixed Rate
Period) means the period selected by the Issuer from time to time as the period for which the interest
rates on the Bonds shall be established.
"Record Date" means, during any Weekly Rate Period, the close of business on the Business Day
immediately preceding each Interest Payment Date, and during any other Rate Period, including the
Fixed Rate Period, the close of business on the fifteenth day of the calendar month next preceding each
Interest Payment Date; provided, that the Record Date may be changed by the Issuer upon notice to all
Bondholders.
"Remarketing Agent" means John Nuveen & Co. Incorporated, or any successor Remarketing
Agent appointed pursuant to the Resolution.
"Tender Date" means, (i) during the effectiveness of a Weekly Rate Period, any Business Day, (ii)
during the effectiveness of a Semiannual Rate Period, any Interest Payment Date, (iii) during the
effectiveness of an Annual Rate Period, each anniversary of the first June 1 or December 1 (whichever
first occurs) during the first Annual Rate Period, provided that if such anniversary is not a Business Day,
then on the next succeeding Business Day, and (iv) upon conversion from one Rate Period to another,
the day the new Rate Period becomes effective, provided, if such day is not a Business Day, then on the
next succeeding Business Day.
"Variable Rate Bonds" means the Bonds during a Weekly Rate Period, Semiannual Rate Period
or Annual Rate Period.
The Variable Rate Bonds may be redeemed, in part or in whole, prior to maturity, at the option
of the Issuer on any date, at a price of par, plus accrued interest, without premium.
Variable Rate Bonds are subject to mandatory sinking fund redemption at a price equal to 100%
of the principal amount plus accrued interest on June 1 in the years and in the amounts determined by
the Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer or Controller of the Issuer in connection with the sale of
the Bonds; provided that the Issuer may at its option, and in the order it selects, receive a credit against
any such amount for Bonds previously redeemed (other than pursuant to a previous mandatory
redemption requirement) or surrendered by the Issuer to the Transfer Agent for cancellation.
Fixed Rate Bonds shall not be subject to redemption prior to maturity.
Bonds shall be selected for redemption by lot; provided that the Issuer may direct the Transfer
Agent to redeem Bonds held by the Issuer or the Remarketing Agent prior to other Bonds. On or before
the date fixed for redemption, the Issuer shall pay to the Transfer Agent for deposit in the Bond Fund, in
addition to any other payments that may be required by the Resolution a sum which, together with
moneys then on hand in the Bond Fund and available therefor, shall be sufficient to pay the principal of
and interest on the Bonds to be redeemed.
Notice of redemption of any Bond shall be given at least thirty (30) days prior to the date fixed
for redemption by mail to the registered holder or holders of the Bonds to be redeemed at the registered
addresses shown on the Bond Register kept by the Transfer Agent. Bonds shall be called for redemption
in multiples of $100,000 and Bonds of denominations of more than $100,000 shall be treated as
representing the number of Bonds obtained by dividing the denomination of the Bond by $100,000 and
such Bonds may be redeemed in part. The notice of redemption for Bonds redeemed in part shall state
that upon surrender of the Bond to be redeemed a new Bond or Bonds in like aggregate principal
amount and maturity to the unredeemed portion of the Bond surrendered shall be issued to the
registered holder thereof, without cost to the holder.
Interest on the Bonds or portions of Bonds so called for redemption shall cease to accrue after
the redemption date specified in said notice, whether presented for redemption or not, provided funds
are on deposit with the Transfer Agent to pay the redemption price thereof.


-333 -



June Meeting, 1989


During any Weekly Rate Period, any Bond (or any portion thereof in an amount equal to an
integral multiple of $100,000) shall be purchased by the Remarketing Agent but only from the sources
described below, on the demand of the holder thereof, on the app lcable Tender Date, at a Purchase
Price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus, if such Tender Date is not an Interest Payment
Date, accrued interest to the date of purchase, following delivery to the Remarketing Agent at its New
York office not later than 4:00 p.m. local time (or upon telephonic notice promptly co ntrmed by telex,
telegraph or telecopier) of a demand for purchase properly completed and executed, which states (i) the
principal amount (or portion thereof in an amount equal to an integral multiple of $100,000) or such
Bond which will be delivered for purchase, (ii) the Tender Date on which suchBond (or portion thereof
in an amount equal to an integral multiple of $100,000) shall be purchased pursuant to this paragraph
which date sha be a Business Day not prior to the seventh day next succeeding the date of delivery of
such demand for purchase, (iii) that the demand for purchase is an irrevocable request, (iv) that the
holder will deliver the Bond to the Remarketing Agent at or prior to 10:00 a.m., New York time at the
New York office of the Remarketing Agent on the Tender Date, (v) the name of the registered holder of
such Bond, (vi) the telex or telecopier number, if any, of the registered holder of su  Bond (vii) the
bond number of such Bond and (viii) the CUSIP number thereof. By deliverig such notice, the holder
irrevocably agrees to deliver such Bond to the New York office of the Remarketing Agent at or prior to
10:00 a.m., local time on the Tender Date.
During any Semiannual Rate Period or Annual Rate Period, any Bond (or any portion thereof in
an amount equal to an integral multiple of $100,000) shall be purchased by the Remarketing Agent, but
only from the sources described below, on the demand of the holder thereof on the applicable Tender
Date, at a Purchase Price equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus, if such Tender Date is not
an Interest Payment Date, accrued interest to the date of purchase, following delivery to the
Remarketing Agent at its New York office not later than 4:00 p.m., local time on a Business Day at least
fifteen (15) days prior to the applicable Tender Date, of a demand for purchase properly completed and
executed (or upon telephonic notice promptly confirmed by telex, telegraph or telecopier), which states
(i) the Tender Date on which such Bond (or authorized portion thereof) will be purchased which shall
be a date permitted by the definition of "Tender Date" herein contained, (ii) the principal amount (or
portion thereof in an amount equal to an integral multiple of $100,000) of such Bondc which will be
delivered for purchase, (iii) that the demand for purchase is an irrevocable request, (iv) that the holder
will deliver the Bond to the Remarketing Agent at or prior to 10:00 a.m  New York time at the New
York office of the Remarketing Agent, on the Tender Date, (v) the name of the registered holder of such
Bond, (vi) the telex or telecopier number if any, of the registered holder of such Bonds, (vii) the bond
number of such Bond and (viii) the CUJSIP number thereof. By delivering such notice the holder
irrevocably agrees to deliver such Bond to the New York office of the Remarketing Agent at or prior to
10:00 a.m., local time at the New York office of the Remarketing Agent, on such Tender Date.
Any election by a holder to tender a Bond or Bonds (or an authorized ortion thereof) for
purchase shall be irrevocable and shall be binding on the holder making such el ection and on any
transferee of such holder. If after delivery to the Remarketing Agent of a tender notice, the holder
making such election shall fail to deliver such Bond or Bonds described in such notice to the
Remarketing Agent on or before the applicable Tender Date, the untendered Bonds or portion thereof
described in such notice, to the extent that there shall be on deposit with the Remarketing Agent and
available therefor an amount sufficient to pay the Purchase Price thereof, be deemed purchased on the
Tender Date and shall thereafter be an "Undelivered Bond," with the effect described below.
All Bonds are subject to mandatory purchase by the Remarketing Agent but only from the
sources described below, in whole upon conversion of the Bonds to the Fixed  ate Period at a Purchase
Price of 100% of the principal amount thereof on the date of conversion to Fixed Interest Rates, plus if
the conversion date is not an Interest Payment Date, accrued interest to the conversion date, provided
that there shall not be so purchased Bonds with respect to which the Remarketing Agent shall have
received written direction (a "Notice of Retention') not to so purchase the same from the holders
thereof, as described below.
Upon and in connection with the conversion of Bonds to Fixed Interest Rates, a holder of bonds
may direct the Remarketing Agent not to purchase all or a portion (in principal amount of $5,000 or any
multiple thereof) of such Bonds held by him by delivering to the Remarketing Agent at its New York
office on or before the 20th day preceding the conversion mate a Notice of Retention in writing executed
by such holder (a) specifying the numbers and denominations of Bonds held by him, (b) acknowledging
receipt of notice of the matters set forth in clauses (i) through (viii) of the third paragraph of Section
303(D) of the Resolution, and (c) directing the Remarketing Agent not to purchase such Bonds or
portions thereof (in the principal amount of $5,000 or any multiple thereof); provided, however, that a
holder who makes such a direction must hold such Bonds at least through the date of conversion.
A Notice of Retention delivered to the Remarketing Agent shall be irrevocable and shall be
binding upon subsequent holders of the Bonds including Bonds issued in exchange therefor or upon the
registration of transfer thereof.
On the Tender Date a Bond (or authorized portion thereof) is to be purchased pursuant to
-334 -



June Meeting, 1989


optional tender, or on the date the Bonds are required to be purchased pursuant to mandatory purchase,
the Remarketing Agent shall, but solely to the extent such funds are available, purchase (i) first from any
moneys available from the proceeds of remarketing such Bond; and (ii) second from Legally Available
Funds provided by the Issuer pursuant to the Resolution, such Bond (or authorized portion thereof) from
the horder thereof at the Purchase Price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, if
any, to the date of purchase (if such date is not an Interest Payment Date).
Any Bonds which are required pursuant to a previously filed tender notice or pursuant to
mandatory purchase to be tendered for purchase on a Tender Date to the Remarketing Agent that are
not delivered on the Tender Date, and for which there has been irrevocably deposited m trust with the
Remarketing Agent an amount of money sufficient to pay the Purchase Price thereof shall be deemed to
have been purchased pursuant to the Resolution and shall be Undelivered Bonds. In the event of a
failure by a Bondholder to tender its Bonds on or prior to the required date, said Owner of such
Undelivered Bonds shall not be entitled to any payment other than the Purchase Price and Undelivered
Bonds in the hands of such non-delivering owner shall no longer accrue interest or be entitled to the
benefits of the Resolution, except for the payment of the Purchase Price; provided, however, that the
indebtedness represented by such Bonds shall not be extinguished.
THE HOLDER OF THIS BOND, BY ITS PURCHASE AND ACCEPTANCE OF THIS
BOND HEREBY IRREVOCABLY APPOINTS THE REMARKETING AGENT AS ITS DULY
AUTHORIZED ATTORNEY-IN-FACT FOR THE PURPOSES OF ASSIGNMENT
ENDORSEMENT CERTIFICATION, EXECUTION OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT THAT THE
HOLDER IS H6LDING THIS BOND FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PURCHASER OR
PURCHASERS REGISTRATION OF TRANSFERS AND DELIVERY OF BONDS IN THE
EVENT OF A TENDER OR A MANDATORY PURCHASE OF THE BOND PURSUANT TO THE
RESOLUTION. THE REMARKETING AGENT'S POWER OF ATTORNEY HEREUNDER IS
COUPLED WITH AN INTEREST.
IN THE EVENT OF A TENDER OR A MANDATORY PURCHASE PURSUANT TO THE
RESOLUTION, ANY UNDELIVERED BOND SHALL NO LONGER EVIDENCE THE DEBT OF
THE REGENTS TO THE PRIOR HOLDER, AND THE PRIOR HOLDER THEREOF SHALL BE
ENTITLED ONLY TO PAYMENT OF THE PURCHASE PRICE FOR THE UNDELIVERED
BOND FROM THE FUNDS HELD BY THE REMARKETING AGENT.
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things required to be
done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the issuance of this Bond have been done, have
happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner, as required by law.


-335 -


