
JULY MEETING, 1978
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, JULY 27, 1978


The Regents met at 1:30 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors
Goodall and Moran and Vice-Presidents Shapiro, Brinkerhoff,
Radock, Overberger, Johnson and Vice-President and Secretary
Kennedy also were present.
Dr. Jeptha Dalston, Director of University Hospital, reported
briefly on the 1977-78 fiscal operation for the Hospital. He indicated that there has been remarkable improvement in the last
half of the fiscal year. The Hospital, through efforts of the medical and nursing staff, an expense reduction program by hospital
managers, dietetics staff, building services and others, will end
this fiscal year without a financial loss. However, funds must be
generated to meet the enormous capital and equipment needs.
Regent Baker commented that the hospital is to be congratulated and asked if the high level of utilization will be helpful
in negotiations for the new facility.
Dr. Dalston replied in the affirmative, adding that the higher
occupancy rate is the manifestation of new vigorous young chairmen, service chiefs, and faculty members in the Medical School.
He said that everyone realizes that the operation must be tightened. The medical and nursing staff also realize that the health
care industry is volatile, and that there must be accountability
and reevaluations of procedures.
President Fleming referred to the Hospital Planning report
and said that a more detailed report would be available in September. In the meantime, he wanted to apprise the Regents of
the time frame within which some decisions must be made and
to make everyone aware that by the time construction begins,
there will be a considerable escalation of cost. A project of this
size takes approximately two years to design, therefore, construction cannot begin until 1981.
Regent Nederlander commented that if 1981 is the earliest
date on which construction can commence, the cost of the facility


Hospital Fiscal
Operations,
1977-78
Hospital Planning
Report


1




2


JULY MEETING, 1978


will almost double. Will the hospital be smaller than anticipated
or is it feasible at this point to further consider a new hospital.
President Fleming responded that since the proposed cost of
$140 million was geared to 1974 estimates, we are assuming the
State will recognize the inflationary factor and be willing to work
on a solution. At this time, however, the time frame is very important because of the certificate of need moratorium that has
been enacted by the Legislature.
Tuition, 1978-79  Vice-President Shapiro reviewed the tuition proposals for
Dearborn,and 1978-79 at Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint. The undergraduate
Flint resident tuition was acted upon by the Regents in April. The
proposal includes a registration fee of $15.00 per term for all
students and a shift in the graduate structure. There is also information on the kinds of financial aid at the University and
tuition rates at peer institutions.
Regent Roach noted that two significant outside sources of
student aid, the work study program funds and the loan funds
provided through Michigan State scholarships and loan programs,
are decreasing. He hoped that these programs would receive
attention.
Vice-President Shapiro stated that the amount indicated in
the report for the work study program is assured. There is a
possibility the University will receive a substantial supplement
at the end of the year. The University is also working to increase
State loan funds.
Regent Power suggested the establishment of a task force to
encourage the government to substantially increase work study
program funds.
Regent Laro said that he felt the proposed tuition rates for
the Law School and the Medical School were out of balance. A
substantial increase in the Law School tuition would not damage
its competitive position, and perhaps could relieve the burden on
the Medical School.
Vice-President Shapiro stated that there were a number of
factors involved in considering the current recommendation. The
per capita financial aid at the Law School's competitors is very
much higher; the percentage of non-resident students to whom
admission has been offered and accepted has declined dramatically
in the last few years; student/faculty ratio in the Law School is
higher by a significant number; and there is a greater proportion
of non-residents in the Law School than in the Medical School,
therefore, tuition would have to be increased a great deal to make
up for the dollars lost.
Regent Laro commented that applicants for admission to the
Law School far outnumber available space, therefore, he does not




JULY MEETING, 1978


3


believe there would be any problem in filling an entering class.
He said he was not anxious to raise tuition, but as long as it was
necessary, it should be on an equitable basis.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the tuition rates for
1977-78, as recommended. Regent Dunn seconded the motion
and it was adopted with Regent Baker voting no and Regent
Laro voting no only on the Law School tuition proposal.
Regent Roach moved to approve the 1978-79 tuition rates
for UM-Dearborn and UM-Flint. Regent Waters seconded
the motion and it was adopted with Regent Baker voting no.
Vice-President Shapiro presented the budget for 1978-79, indicating the highlights of the critical areas of the Ann Arbor
general fund budget.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the budget for the
Ann Arbor campus, as recommended. Regent Waters seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Waters moved to approve the UM-Flint budget for
1978-79, as recommended. Regent Laro seconded the motion and
it was adopted.
Regent Laro moved to approve the UM-Dearborn budget
for 1978-79, as recommended. Regent Dunn seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Vice-President Johnson reviewed the Michigan Student Assembly Fee Assessment proposal and indicated that the request
had been amended to include an additional assessment of 60 for
the Ann Arbor Tenant's Union. It is felt that with the centralization of legal aid activity which would include the question of
housing reform, this service could best be handled within the
context of an expanded legal aid service. He pointed out that no
part of the mandatory fee would be directed to the Center for
National Housing Reform.
Mr. Jonathan Rose, and Mr. Paul Teich, Legal Aid Society
attorneys reviewed the background and the activities of the
Society, and the Michigan Student Assembly housing law reform
project.
Vice-President Johnson commented that they were requesting
additional funds to expand legal aid services for students of The
University of Michigan. Under the guidelines of the Washtenaw
County Legal Aid Society, many students at the University,
particularly at the graduate level, were being denied access to
legal services because of income restrictions.
President Fleming mentioned that up until this year the University had given the Legal Aid Society some monetary support
through the Office for Student Services. However, because of the


Budget, 1978-79
All Campuses


AISA Fee
Assessment




4


JULY MEETING, 1978


budget restrictions in that office, it was no longer possible to
provide these funds. The students felt that this was a valuable
service, therefore, MSA asked the students, through an election
process, if they would support the service on a mandatory fee
basis. The results of the April election supported the issue overwhelmingly.
Regent Baker asked if there were any restrictions on the
availability of the service.
Mr. Teich responded that income from all sources would be
taken into consideration, including that received from parents
and grants. However, the cost of tuition would be subtracted
because it is considered to be an extraordinary fixed cost. Under
the old plan only indigent students were qualified, but under the
new plan, since all students would be taxed, all students would
be eligible.
Regent Baker commented that he had just voted against a
tuition increase because tuition is too high, and something must
be done to reduce the cost of education. The only protest he has
is to vote against tuition. He said that he was going to vote
against this proposal because it not only adds to the cost of education, but is not on a voluntary basis. It is unreasonable to
request the Regents to approve a mandatory assessment to support an issue that all students do not support. In essence, a
bureaucracy has been established and it is in the best interest of
the Society to continue its existence.
Vice-President Johnson stated that this is not the original
request, but the result of serious discussion with the Executive
Officers, the Office for Student Services, the General Counsel, and
the three parties presenting the issue. He said that he felt it
merits the Regents positive consideration.
Regent Baker indicated that if there is, indeed, a need on
the part of the students for legal services, perhaps it is something
that should be incorporated into the administrative function. It
would seem appropriate to have the University provide the necessary personnel. This would negate any peripheral issues because
they would not exist. He also said that he wanted to discuss this
issue with the General Counsel.
Vice-President Johnson remarked that there has been extended meetings with Mr. Daane, and he is at ease with the
present proposal.
Regent Roach stated that the Regents should not exercise
control over the specific projects or organizations MSA desires
to fund. This would be a dangerous precedent. Once the Regents
start such organization by organization restraint, there would be
no way to draw a line. While he, personally, does not support




JULY MEETING, 1978                          5
many organizations funded by MSA, and opposes some of them,
MSA should have the right to make its own decisions within
general guidelines.
The Regents then deferred action until Friday.
The Regents then heard comments from Karen Downing and         Public
Susan Van Hattum concerning the MSA fee assessment; Arthur          omment
Anderson concerning the Hospital subcontract; Jim Delcamp and
Andy Feeney concerning South African Investments; Carol Mezo,
Howard Brick, and Reginald Baugh concerning affirmative action.
The meeting was adjourned.
FRIDAY, JULY 28, 1978
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors
Goodall and Moran and Vice-Presidents Shapiro, Brinkerhoff,
Radock, Overberger, Johnson, and Vice-President and Secretary
Kennedy also were present.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of June 15 and 16, 1978 were
approved with certain specified changes.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff filed a quarterly report of Ex-     Expendable
pendable Restricted Fund Budgets. It is summarized below:          RestrictedFund
Budgets in the amount of $29,590,718 have been initiated for accounts
and activities of the Expendable Restricted Fund since the meeting of April 21,
1978. The following is a summary of the budgets initiated since the last
meeting, and for 1977-78 (12 months). Also, there is a review of activities
for April through June 1977 and for 1976-77 (12 months).
Apr.-June  Apr.-June
1977       1978
1. Instructional Programs.......................$ 3,346,747 $ 3,441,507
2. Research Grants and Contracts................ 16,243,917  25,720,464
3. Student Aid (Fellowships, Scholarships, Grants)  108,480  115,927
4. Student Activities............................
5. State and Public Services.....................  23,500  312,820
6. Administrative and Service Activities...............
7. Annuitants.......................................
TOTAL.................................$19,722,644  $29,590,718




6                    JULY MEETING, 1978
1976-77     1977-78
(12 Mos.)   (12 Mos.)
1. Instructional Programs.......................$19,614,222  $19,232,491
2. Research Grants and Contracts................ 59,767,774  69,832,674
3. Student Aid (Fellowships, Scholarships, Grants)  3,850,181  4,525,252
4. Student Activities............................  20,319...
5. State and Public Services.....................  185,353   422,917
6. Administrative and Service Activities............
7.  Annuitants..................................  9,180...
TOTAL................................ $83,447,029  $94,013,334
Within each category, the source of funds for each budget is indicated
and a summary of these sources follows:
Apr.-June   Apr.-June
1977        1978
1. Federal Government.........................$14,654,909  $21,660,716
2. State and Local Government..................  526,571    1,017,825
3. Industry and Individuals..................... 1,241,643  3,682,961
4. Foundations................................. 1,256,965     759,743
5. Endowment Income..........................     41,435     196,131
6. Program Charges and Fees.................... 2,001,121   2,273,342
TOTAL.................................$19,722,644  $29,590,718
1976-77     1977-78
(12 Mos.)   (12 Mos.)
1. Federal Government........................ $65,076,608  $74,934,598
2. State and Local Government.................. 1,239,872   2,066,539
3. Industry and Individuals..................... 5,262,385  6,527,059
4. Foundations................................. 5,563,695   4,304,555
5. Endowment Income.......................... 4,060,111     3,604,423
6. Program Charges and Fees.................... 2,244,358   2,576,160
TOTAL.................................$83,447,029  $94,013,334
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, temporary investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. He also filed a
quarterly report on non-competitive purchases over $1,000 from
single sources.
Historic    In connection with the plant extension report, Mr. Roderick
Central campus  Daane, University Counsel, reviewed the provisions of the National Historic Preservation Act. Under the Act, property eligible
for inclusion in the National Register means any property the
Secretary of the Interior determines is likely to meet certain
historical criteria. This makes it possible to be subjected to the
restrictions of the legislation if your property is determined to be
eligible for listing, even though it is not listed.
He then suggested certain procedures the University might
pursue to remove from the listing the Central Campus as an
historic district. The University could request formally to both
the state and federal agencies that the property be removed from
the list because of the defective process by which it was nominated
as an historic district; seek from the Michigan Court of Claims a




JULY MEETING, 1978


7


declaratory judgment on the Constitutional grounds that the
Michigan Department of State, acting through its History Division, lacks the authority to nominate University property for
inclusion as an historic district. If the latter prevails, it is likely
that the Federal Government would remove the University from
the list, but might still consider the property eligible, and therefore bound to the restrictions of the Act. Based upon further
research the University might institute a federal court action
arguing that the regulations, because of their overbreadth, are
void and should be disregarded. Another possibility, and the
most effective, would be to have Congress amend the National
Historic Preservation Act. This would be entirely consistent with
the reservation of power in the Tenth Amendment to provide
that nominations to the historic district of state owned property
should be made by an appropriate state official who, in this case,
would be the Board of Regents.
Regents Nederlander and Roach agreed that appropriate legal
proceedings should be undertaken. Regent Roach indicated that
there was also the question of due process and the possibility of
an appeal to the Court of Appeals under the Administrative Procedure Act.
Regent Brown commented that there seemed to be a lack of
appreciation for the importance of the act and of the Central
Campus with respect to it as a place of national significance.
There is no indication that the Federal Government would be
unreasonable in future changes the University might wish to
make to this area. He felt that the University should not oppose
this action at present.
Regent Baker mentioned that the matter evolved from the
controversy surrounding Barbour/Waterman gymnasiums. At that
time, a petition for historic designation was submitted to the
State History Division to prevent the University from demolishing the gymnasium buildings. He agreed that the preservation of
historical places is important, but there is a difference in a legitimate interest in protecting history and using federal law to create
difficulty in the administration of the University.
Regent Power indicated that a negative assessment of the
designation is unfortunate. This country is just beginning to
realize the importance of the preservation of its history. Perhaps
the positive effects of this legislation and its implications could
be addressed.
Regent Baker moved that appropriate action be taken, as
recommended by University Counsel, to have the central campus
removed from the listing as an historic district, and to examine
Regent Roach's suggestions of due process and an appeal under
the Administrative Procedure Act. Regent Roach seconded the




8


JULY MEETING, 1978


motion and it was adopted with Regents Brown and Power
voting no.
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on the Office of
University Relations and Development.
President Fleming commended the Office of University Relations and Development for the national awards recently acquired
for excellence in performance.
Gifts III. GIFTS AND    GRANTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were accepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the following
funds:
Alcoa Engineering Scholarships fund......................  2,250.00
Alcoa Foundation Scholarship in Marketing fund..........  1,500.00
Law   School Aid  fund...................................  1,500.00
Allied Chemical Corporation, Morristown, New Jersey; for the
following funds:
Allied Chemical Fellowship in Chemistry fund............  3,000.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund....................  3,000.00
American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business, Inc., Creve
Coeur, Missouri; for the Business Administration Policy and
Control-Faculty Special fund............................ 10,000.00
American Bureau of Shipping, New York, New York; for the
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Building fund.. 10,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for American Cancer Society funds............................... 39,540.00
Ann Arbor University of Michigan Alumnae Club, Margaret
Waterman Group, Ann Arbor; for the following funds:
Alumnae Council Scholarship fund.......................  3,150.00
Alumnae Council Scholarships for Henderson House fund...  1,050.00
Lydia Mendelssohn Theater fund........................  1,000.00
Herbert B. Bassett Trust; for the Class of 1917 Engineering fund  5,000.00
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; for the Law
School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund...............  5,000.00
Celanese Corporation, New York, New York; for the following
funds:
Celanese Corporation Fellowship in Chemical Engineering
fund.........................                      2,000.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund....................  3,000.00
Richard Earhart, Mount Dora, Florida; for the Alumni Center
fund..........................................  30,000.00
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; matching gifts for the
following funds:
Athletic  Scholarships  fund..............................  575.00
Developmental Psychology Research fund................  1,200.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund.........   25.00
Radrick Farms Golf Course fund.........................  100.00
Vital Margin fund.................................    10.00
We Came To Ann Arbor-Film fund......................    5,000.00




JULY MEETING, 1978


9


William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York; for the
Grant Foundation-Fraiberg fund................................  25,000.00
Joel I. Hamberger, M.I., Southfield; for Athletic Scholarships
fund..................................................  9,000.00
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; for the Internal
Medicine-Infectious Diseases Research fund...............  5,200.00
Miriam R. McDougall Estate; for the Biological Station-Dining
Hall fund........................................... 22,729.33
Michigan Lions Eye Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Lions
Eye Bank fund........................................  10,389.05
National Foundation, White Plains, New York; for the National
Foundation March of Dimes-Gelehrter fund.............. 11,000.00
National Foundation, Washtenaw County Chapter, Ann Arbor;
for the National Foundation March of Dimes-Olson fund...  6,500.00
Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio; for the following funds:
Industrial Engineering-Human Performance Laboratory fund  15,000.00
President Gerald R. Ford Library fund...................  5,000.00
Richard V. Perry, Los Angeles, California; for the Richard Perry
Music  Scholarship  fund.................................  5,000.00
Howard W. Schneider Estate; for the Howard W. Schneider fund 151,496.92
Mr. and Mrs. James S. Schoff, New York, New York; for the
Clements Library Associates fund........................  6,000.00
Sterling Drug, Inc., New York, New York; for the Maurice H.
Seevers  Memorial fund.................................  5,000.00
Texaco Incorporated, New York, New York; for the Business Administration-Bond  fund.................................  5,000.00
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor; for
the following funds:
Engineering Building Gifts fund......................... 84,610.00
Towsley Foundation-Horticultural Therapy Program fund.. 10,000.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Clinton B. Ford, Wilton, Connecticut. International Business Machines Corporation, common stock; for the Clinton B. Ford
Astronomy  fund.......................................  6,609.38
Mr. and Mrs. Edward Levi, Chicago, Illinois. International Business Machines Corporation, common stock; for the President
Gerald  R. Ford  Library  fund............................  5,761.25
Dr. Hans W. Vahlteich, Fort Lee, New Jersey. Kawecki Berylco
Industries, common stock; divided as follows:
College of Pharmacy fund.......................... 11,400.00
Hans W. Vahlteich Research fund....................  5,700.00
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Dr. William V. Caldwell, Flint. 13 books on the subject of differential equations, for The University of Michigan-Flint
Campus Library
Professor Vladimir Gvozdanovic, Ann Arbor. A slide collection
encompassing 53 color slides; for the Humanities Department,
The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
Pertec Computer Corporation, Ann Arbor. Four Pertec FD200
floppy disk drives, for the College of Engineering
Philip Peter, M.D., Dearborn. 8 records for the Music Collection
of the Humanities Department, The University of MichiganDearborn Campus
Rev. W. A. Zoerner, Grand Haven. Parts I and II of a 16 mm
sound motion picture, entitled: "Front-Berichte Der Propaganda-Kompanien;" for the Audio-Visual Education Center




10


JULY MEETING, 1978


Personnel Actions IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents.
Appointments         NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Solomon J. Axelrod, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Department of Medical Care Organization
Patrick M. Boarman, Ph.D., Professor and Chairman of the Department of
Economics, UM-Flint, without tenure, for three years
Kenneth A. Easlick, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Department of Community Health Programs, July 1, 1978
Stephen A. Ernst, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Anatomy, with tenure,
July 1, 1978
Harold F. Falls, Professor Emeritus, appointed as a consultant in the Department of Ophthalmology, July 1, 1978
Frank Huntley, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Fall Term, 1978
Kenneth Jones, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Fall Term, 1978
Russell D. Larsen, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Chemistry, without tenure,
for three years
Robert L. Macdonald, M.D., Associate Professor of Neurology, without
tenure, July 1, 1978
Frank J. Massey, III, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, without
tenure, U-M-Dearborn
Gregory M. St. L. O'Brien, Ph.D., appointed Provost for UM-Flint for a
five-year term, and Professor of Psychology, with tenure
Edward Stasheff, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Fall Term, 1978
William Randolph Taylor, Professor Emeritus, appointed as a curator and
consultant in the Herbarium, July 1, 1978
The Regents approved the appointment of David T. Pratt,
Ph.D., as Chairman and Professor, Department of Mechanical
Engineering, for five years, effective August 1, 1978.
Promotions, etc.  CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective July 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Percy Bates, Professor of Education, reappointed Assistant Dean for Service
and Institutional Relations of the School of Education for one year
Frederick W. Bertolaet, Professor of Education, reappointed Associate Dean
of the School of Education for one year
Ella M. Bowen, Assistant Professor of Education, reappointed Assistant
Dean for Instruction of the School of Education for one year
Tanya M. Gallagher, from Associate Professor of Speech Pathology, without
tenure, to Associate Professor of Education and Speech Pathology, with
tenure
Dennis J. Hegyi, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physics,
with tenure, September 1, 1978
Robert C. Hughes, from Acting Director of Housing to Director of Housing
Kenneth E. Jochim, Professor of Physiology, appointed Acting Chairman of
the Department of Physiology
Wilbert J. McKeachie, Professor of Psychology, reappointed Director of the
Center for Research on Learning and Teaching for three years




JULY MEETING, 1978


11


Wilfred Marston, Professor of Sociology and Urban Studies, appointed Acting Chairman of the Department of Sociology/Anthropology and the
Program in Urban Studies, UM-Flint, September 1, 1978 to May 31,
1979
Joseph J. Martin, Professor of Chemical Engineering, from Associate Director to Acting Director of the Institute of Science and Technology
Samuel I. Outcalt, from Associate Professor to Professor of Geography, with
tenure, September 1, 1978
Robert D. Pehlke, Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering,
reappointed Chairman of the Department of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1983
Rudolf B. Schmerl, Associate Professor of Education, reappointed Assistant
Dean for Research of the School of Education, for one year
W. Allen Spivey, Professor of Statistics, appointed the Clare E. Griffin Distinguished Professor of Business Administration
James A. Taren, Professor of Surgery, appointed Associate Dean for Educational Affairs, Medical School, August 1, 1978
The Regents approved       administrative leaves and    emeritus    Leaves of Absence
titles for Wilbur J. Cohen, School of Education; Theodore J.           Emeritus Ttles
St. Antoine, Law School; and Frederick H. Wagman, University
Library. They also approved extensions of leaves of absence for
Michel Oksenberg, Professor of Political Science; Joel D. Aberbach, Associate Professor of Political Science, Kenneth P. Langton,
Associate Professor of Political Science, and Jui Y. Peng, Associate Professor of Population Planning.
The Regents also approved the title of Director Emeritus to
Nicholas Falcone who served as Director of Bands from 1927 to
1935. Following is the memoir:
Nicholas Falcone served as Director of Bands at The University of
Michigan from 1927 to 1935. It is the recommendation of the School of
Music that he be appointed Director Emeritus of University Bands.
Nicholas Falcone was born in Italy and came to America in 1912. As a
virtuoso clarinetist, he performed extensively as a professional musican, and
in 1927 was appointed Director of Bands at The University of Michigan.
An examination of programs of the period 1927 to 1935 indicates performance
of the finest symphonic literature available at the time, and a most complete
band instrumentation. The bands performed in public concert on regular
intervals and often performed in other areas of the state. Critical reviews of
the concerts of this entire period were highly complimentary.
Mr. Falcone also served as conductor of the Marching Band during this
period, and newspaper clippings of the era were also highly complimentary
of these performances.
Nicholas Falcone served with great distinction in the position of Director
of Bands at The University of Michigan until 1935 when he retired because
of a sudden loss of hearing. Despite this handicap in the ensuing years, Nick's
love for music and for Michigan continued unabated. Compositions and
band arrangements continued to pour from his talented soul and were published and played on a national scale. In addition, he attended almost every
concert played by all the Michigan Bands during these fifty-one years
despite the fact that he couldn't hear a single note being performed. Mr.
Nicholas Falcone is truly an "M" man with contributions indelibly recorded
in the historical annals of the Michigan Bands.
Mr. Falcone currently resides at 418 Thompson St., Ann Arbor, Michigan.
The Regents now salute this distinguished musical artist, arranger,
teacher, and conductor for his dedicated service by naming him Director
Emeritus of University Bands.




12


JULY MEETING, 1978


Appommittee     The following committee appointments were approved.
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Professor Colin W. Clipson, for a two-year term, July 1, 1978 to June 30,
1980, vice Professor Robert M. Darvas, term expired
Professor Allan G. Feldt, to succeed himself, for a two-year term, July 1,
1978 to June 30, 1980
Mary Bartron Henderson House Board of Governors
Susan A. Davis, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1981, vice
Constance Butler Amick, term expired
Lynne Prakken Carbeck, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978 to June 30,
1981, vice Betty Erdmann Kohl, term expired
Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
Thomas Potter, for a two-year term, July 1, 1978 to May 31, 1980, vice
Janet Kittell, term expired
Janet Kittell, to complete the term of Howard Kaplan, beginning immediately and ending May 31, 1979
Medical School Executive Committee
Dr. Sarah S. Winans, for a three-year term, September 1, 1978 to August 31,
1981, vice Dr. Raymond Kahn, term expired
Dr. Sid Gilman, for a three-year term, September 1, 1978 to August 31,
1981, vice Dr. Albert Silverman, term expired
Mental Health Research Institute Advisory Committee
Dr. Bert N. LaDu, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978
to June 30, 1981
Michigan Memorial-Phoenix Project Executive Committee
Professor John C. Floyd, Jr., to succeed himself, for a four-year term,
July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1982
Professor Edgar F. Westrum, Jr., to succeed himself, for a four-year term,
July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1982
Professor Ward D. Getty, for a two-year term, to begin immediately to
June 30, 1980, vice Professor Giuseppe Parravano, deceased
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Associate Professor Gladys Ancrum, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978 to
June 30, 1981, vice Professor Beatrice Kalisch, term expired
Associate Professor Regina Lederman, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978
to June 30, 1981, vice Professor Linda Upton, term expired
Advisory Committee on Recreation, Intramurals and Club Sports
Professor Frederick J. Beutler, for a two-year term, August 1, 1978 to
July 31, 1980, vice Professor Richard W. Bailey, term expired
Professor John T. Headington, for a two-year term, August 1, 1978 to
July 31, 1980, vice Professor Dale E. Briggs, term expired
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Professor Saul H. Hymans, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1,
1978 to June 30, 1981
Dean Richard D. Remington, to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1981
Dean Terrence Sandalow, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978 to June 30,
1981, vice Professor Theodore J. St. Antoine, term expired
The University of Michigan-Flint Citizens Advisory Committee
M. Harry Piper, reappointed for a four-year term
Dr. Arthur L. Tuuri, reappointed for a four-year term
William S. White, reappointed for a four-year term




JULY MEETING, 1978                            13
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS                                                    Personnel Reports
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                        Appointments
Effective July 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Sylvia A. Aldridge, Pharm.D., Pharmacy, July 17, 1978
Jeffrey Lance Anderson, M.D., Internal Medicine
Ira Alan Cohen, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Joseph P. Gee, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Lucia K. Jim, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Yuk-Kai Lau, M.D., Internal Medicine
Peter Alan Wilson, Ph.D., Hospital Administration, School of Public Health,
June 1, 1978
Anne Buckingham Young, M.D., Neurology
Instructor
Thomas F. Anderson, M.D., Dermatology
Charles J. Danek, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Joseph P. Lynch, M.D., Internal Medicine
Kimball Austin Miller, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Disease
Richard E. Minter, M.D., Psychiatry
Visiting Professor
Jochen Abraham Frowein, M.C.L., Law, June 1, 1978
Visiting Associate Professor
Lawrence Corbett Goodwyn, Ph.D., Political Science, UM-Flint,
June 25, 1978
Visiting Assistant Professor
Richard Earle Charlton, Jr., Ph.D., Accounting
Michael Keresztesi, Ph.D., Library Science
Joseph John Runzo, Ph.D., Philosophy
Robert John Yanal, Ph.D., Philosophy
Visiting Lecturer
Ramakrishna Chandrashekar Cowsik, Ph.D., Mathematics
Carolyn B. Grimes, Music, June 24, 1978
Karlos Moser, M.M., Music, June 24, 1978
Adjunct Lecturer
Ernest Buechler, Ed.D., Division of Education, UM-Dearborn,
July 26, 1978
Susan S. Hoffman, M.Ed., Division of Education, UM-Dearborn,
January 1, 1978
Clinical Assistant Professor
Rodney R. Bentz, M.D., Internal Medicine
Clinical Instructor
Jerry Meislik, M.D., Ophthalmology
Marilyn Winder Woolfolk, D.D.S., Dentistry, May 15, 1978




14


JULY MEETING, 1978


Promotions, etc.  CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Marie L. Ashcraft, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Public Health,
June 1, 1978
Peter E. Daddona, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Biological
Chemistry, Internal Medicine
David H. Mason, Jr., from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine
Kenneth D. McClatchey, from House Officer and Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Pathology and Assistant Professor of Oral Pathology
Beverly S. Mitchell, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine
Louis J. Rusin, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Dermatology
David H. Seaman, from Instructor to Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and
Communicable Disease
Michael A. Wainstock, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate
Professor of Ophthalmology
Jan Z. Winkelman, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Ophthalmology
Resignations     TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective June 30,1978 unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Paul H. Glasser, Social Work
Associate Professor
Robert D. Carter, Social Work, May 31, 1978
Thomas R. Detwyler, Geography, May 31, 1978
Ronald J. Diperna, Mathematics, May 31, 1978
Francis G. Kline, Journalism
Eliseo G. Navarro, Social Work
Geoffrey F. Walker, Dentistry, April 30, 1978
Assistant Professor
Ralph Albanese, Jr., French, May 31, 1978
James G. Anderson, Atmospheric and Oceanic Science
Claudia A. Baldwin, Nursing, May 14, 1978
William E. Benjamin, Music, May 31, 1978
Bruce S. Chang, Internal Medicine
Stanley F. Chang, Radiology (also Instructor in Internal Medicine)
Sally K. Fairfax, Natural Resources, May 31, 1978
Emre Kokmen, Neurology, June 9, 1978
Frances L. Mlynarchek, Nursing, May 31, 1978
Francis Noonan, Industrial and Operations Engineering, July 31, 1978
Burton L. Perry, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Dorthea E. Puckett, Nursing, May 31, 1978
Marilyn Searson-Lary, Library Science, May 31, 1978
Joan M. Sigmann, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Marek A. Stawiski, Dermatology
James T. Stringfield, III, Internal Medicine
May L. Votaw, Internal Medicine
Christine M. Waternaux, Statistics, July 31, 1978
Instructor
William D. Engle, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Robert H. Earhart, Jr., Internal Medicine and Pharmacology




JULY MEETING, 1978


15


H. Barton Grossman, Surgery
William A. Johannesen, Physical Education
William J. Litzenberg, Radiology
Daniel B. Magilavy, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Sailen K. Mukerjee, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Judith S. Pagano, Obstetrics and Gynecology, June 9, 1978
Lynn R. Sengbush, Nursing, May 26, 1978
Robert T. Stein, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
William B. Zipf, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Lecturer
Sheila G. Baler, Community Health Programs, Public Health and Psychology,
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 1978
Richard C. Mueller, Education
Clinical Assistant Professor
Barry Miller, Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Clinical Instructor
Joseph J. Pittelli, Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Martin J. Tuck, Dentistry, July 31, 1978
Eight off-campus assignments, five sabbatical leaves, three Leaves of Absence
leaves of absence without salary, three extensions of leaves of
absence without salary, and three retirement furloughs were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of eleven faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.
WILLIAM    BELCHER     BALLIS, Professor of Political Science, has  W. B. Ballis
retired from active faculty status as of June 30, 1978, after an outstanding  Retirement
career in teaching, research, and service as a diplomat and political analyst
for the United States Government.
Professor Ballis was born in Portland, Oregon. He received his B.A.
degree from Stanford University and his Ph.D. degree from The University
of Chicago. He was a fellow of The Rockefeller Foundation for Russian
Studies (1937-1939). He taught at The Ohio State University (1939-1941)
and then served in Washington, D.C., and in Moscow as a political analyst
from 1941 to 1948. He was a professor of political science at the University
of Washington, Seattle (1948-1957) when he joined The University of
Michigan.
He has been a professor, lecturer, and consultant at several of the War
Colleges and at other distinguished institutions-in Europe as well as the
United States-and was instrumental in helping to build the Russian and
East European studies program at the University in Ann Arbor.
His publications are many, especially on the USSR, with special attention to the Inner Asian sector of the Soviet Union where he is recognized as
a pioneer in Outer Mongolian political studies.
The Regents salute this distinguished political scientist for his excellence
in service to the University by naming him Professor Emeritus of Political
Science.
Professor ROBERT C. F. BARTELS, Director of the Computing Center R. C. F. Bartels
and Professor of Mathematics, retired from  active faculty status as of  Retirement
June 30, 1978, after a productive career as a teacher, researcher, and administrator.




16


JULY MEETING, 1978


Professor Bartels was born in Brooklyn, New York, and took his undergraduate and graduate degrees at the University of Wisconsin, receiving his
Ph.D. in 1938. He came to The University of Michigan in 1938 as an Instructor, was promoted to Assistant Professor in 1945, to Associate Professor
in 1950, and to Professor in 1957.
Professor Bartels was one of a few farsighted people who, during the
1950's, applied numerical techniques to solve new problems in mathematics
and introduced numerical analysis as a field of study in the university curriculum. He was appointed Director of the newly established University of
Michigan Computing Center in 1959, a position which he held until his
retirement. As Director he did a remarkable job of fostering an environment
in which the Center could grow to its present prominence as one of the best
in the academic world. That he did so in spite of severe budgetary restrictions and many conflicting demands for computing services attests to his
great skill as an administrator.
In 1972 Professor Bartels received a Distinguished Faculty Achievement
Award in recognition of excellence in teaching, research, and public service.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his dedicated
service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Mathematics and Director
Emeritus of the Computing Center.
W. K. Frankena     Professor WILLIAM    K. FRANKENA, Roy Wood Sellars Professor of
Retirement Philosophy and Distinguished Scholar/College Professor, retired from active
faculty status on July 1, 1978, after a highly productive career as a teacher
and scholar.
He was born in Manhattan, Montana, in 1908. He received the B.A.
from Calvin College in 1930, the M.A. from The University of Michigan in
1933, a second M.A. from Harvard University in 1935, and the Ph.D. from
Harvard University in 1937.
Professor Frankena began his teaching career at The University of
Michigan as an instructor in philosophy in 1937, and, apart from visiting
appointments at Harvard, Columbia, Tokyo, the University of Washington,
and Princeton, has been at this University ever since. He was promoted to
assistant professor in 1940, associate professor in 1946, and professor in
1947. He served as Chairman of the Department of Philosophy from 1947
to 1961.
Professor Frankena was a Guggenheim Fellow in 1948-49, Fellow of
the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford in
1968-69, Chairman of the Board of Officers of the American Philosophical
Association from 1962-65, President of the Western Division of the American
Philosophical Association in 1965-66, member of the President's Commission
on the Humanities, 1963-65, Chairman of the Council for Philosophical
Studies from 1965-72, member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, member of the National Academy of Education from 1965, and was
the Carus Foundation Lecturer in 1974.
He is renowned for his learning in the history of ethics, a subject about
which he is generally believed in the profession to know more than anyone
else in the world. His scholarly knowledge in the philosophy of education is
of nearly equal scope. His major contribution, however, has been his original
work in moral philosophy. He has published several definitive articles on
the "naturalistic fallacy" in ethics, and on the senses of "can" and their
relation to various senses of "ought." He has written many papers on the
meaning of the ethical terms, particularly on whether they can be given a
"naturalistic" or an "emotivist" analysis. And he has written influential
papers on distributive justice, on the concept of human rights, on the relation between an ethics of "duty" and one of "virtue," and on the relation
of religion to ethics. His book Ethics has been enormously influential, and
is properly greatly admired for its care and judiciousness.
Professor Frankena especially served the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts not only as a dedicated Chairman for thirteen years, but as a




JULY MEETING, 1978


17


member of the Executive Committee for three terms.
In view of all these accomplishments, the Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and philosopher for his dedicated service by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Philosophy.
ERASMUS L. HOCH, Professor and Associate Chairman of Psychology,     E. L. Hoch
has retired from active faculty status as of July 1, 1978 after a most pro-  Retirement
ductive career as a clinician, teacher, and administrator.
A native of New York, "Bob" Hoch completed his baccalaureate in 1936
and a Master of Science degree in 1937, both from the College of the City
of New York. Following military service during World War II, he entered
Columbia University and completed his Ph.D. in 1950 with specialty in
clinical psychology. He served as a clinical psychologist in several Veterans
Administration hospitals in New Jersey and Main, rising in 1954-56 to the
position of Chief Clinical Psychologist at the Veterans Administration Center,
Togus, Maine.
In 1956 he was appointed Administrative Officer in charge of state and
professional affairs of the American Psychological Association in Washington, D.C. He served with distinction in this capacity during a period of
vigorous development and rapid expansion of the roles of clinical and other
professional psychologists in American society. His monthly column in the
American Psychologist entitled "Psychology in the States" served more than
any other single element to keep the profession informed of rapidly evolving
legislative, organizational, and ethical issues during this era of rapid transition.
In 1962 the Department of Psychology attracted Bob away from the
APA central office to serve as its Administrative Officer and later as Professor and Associate Chairman of the Department until the time of his
retirement.
During his 14 years at the University, Bob Hoch, more than any other
person, was responsible for the efficient operation of the Psychology Department. His conscientiousness, his ingenuity and above all, his sensitivity to the
needs of students and of a diverse and vigorous faculty and staff created
confidence and assurance that the program would run smoothly and that the
teaching and research missions of the Department would be met to the full
extent that available resources would permit. Never content merely to do
his part, he undertook a wide range of service activities and professional
responsibilities throughout the University and in the professional sector. He
chaired the College Committee on the Use of Human Subjects in Research
for five years, for two years he served as chairman of the Senate Advisory
Review Committee, and during his last two years on campus he served as
Secretary for the Faculty Senate and the Senate Advisory Committee on
University Affairs. In the last 10 years of his professional career alone, he
served on no less than 10 major committees of the Michigan Psychological
Association, and the American Psychological Association, chairing half of
these assignments-and always with wisdom, grace, and wit.
The AMOCO Good Teaching Award, which he received in 1976, is only
the most recent indication of his excellence as a teacher. His students knew
him not only as a delightful and challenging instructor, but as a close personal friend as well. His colleagues knew they could scarcely do better than
to attempt to merely match Bob Hoch's performance as a mentor and
advisor to students. He was known to all as one who could make the learning process not merely stimulating and enlightening but personally relevant,
humane, and fun besides.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher, administrator and
selfless good citizen of this University and his profession by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Psychology.
ROBERT L. IGLEHART, Professor of Art and former Art Department R. L. Iglehart
chairman, retired from active faculty status May 31, 1978, after a most pro-  Retirement
ductive career as teacher, art educator and administrator.




18


JULY MEETING, 1978


A native of Maryland, Robert Iglehart studied Design on an undergraduate level at the Maryland Institute, followed by study at Johns Hopkins
University and Columbia University where he obtained a B.S. in Education.
From 1935 to 1941 he worked as a professional designer in New York City.
In 1946, after serving as correspondent in World War II, Professor
Iglehart continued postgraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York City. In 1948 he was appointed chairman of the Department of Art at New York University.
In 1955 he joined The University of Michigan as first chairman of the
newly formed Department of Art in the former College of Architecture &
Design. His contributions to the university at large and his leadership in the
former Art Department have been outstanding in effecting the development
and reputation of the School. Professor Iglehart is a renowned scholar and
Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. In 1970 he stepped down from the
department chairmanship and returned to teaching and research.
He has traveled extensively in Europe and England receiving many
international awards and citations. His work has earned consistent grant
support, including Rackham grants and his writing is well known in the
Art Education field across the country.
The Regents now acknowledge the contribution of this distinguished art
educator and scholar. His dedicated service and continuing work in the arts
richly deserves the title of Professor Emeritus of Art.
D. A. Kerr     Dr. DONALD A. KERR, Professor of Dentistry, has retired from active
Retirement  faculty status as of June 30, 1978, after an outstanding career as a teacher
and researcher.
Dr. Kerr, who was born in Detroit, earned the A.B. degree in 1931 at
Eastern Michigan University, and the degree Doctor of Dental Surgery at
The University of Michigan in 1937. He joined the faculty of the School of
Dentistry that year as a Clinical Instructor and completed the Master of
Science degree in 1943. Dr. Kerr became Assistant Professor of Dentistry (in
histopathology and periodontics) in 1944, and in 1948 was named Associate
Professor and Chairman of what was then the Department of Oral Pathology
and Periodontics. In 1952 Dr. Kerr was promoted to Professor. He chaired
the joint department until 1963 when it was divided into two departments,
Periodontics and Oral Pathology, continuing to chair the latter until his
retirement. Dr. Kerr holds also an appointment as Professor of Pathology
(in Dentistry) in the Medical School and for five years served as co-chairman
of the Service of Dentistry and Oral Surgery at University Hospital.
Dr. Kerr has played a key role in the development of the School of
Dentistry in his 40 years here. He was instrumental in organizing the School's
department of Periodontics and Occlusion, both of which are recognized as
among the best in the country. Dr. Kerr was responsible also for establishing
and directing the oral pathology biopsy service, one of the earliest and largest
dental-school-based biopsy services. His influence upon the biological aspects
of the dental curriculum has been highly significant.
Internationally recognized in the field of oral pathology, Dr. Kerr has
developed a successful program for the management of irradiated oral cancer
patients. He has served as a consultant to many federal agencies, including
the Naval Dental School and Walter Reed Hospital. Included among his
many honors for his research in the study of oral cancer are the prestigious
Pierre Fauchard Gold Medal for outstanding contributions to oral pathology
and the Tufts University Award for Leadership in Oral Pathology. In 1972
he received the University's Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award.
The Regents now honor this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
R. S. Moyer     Dr. RALPH S. MOYER, Professor of Dentistry, has retired from active
Retirement faculty status as of May 31, 1978, after a most productive career as a
teacher and clinician in the School of Dentistry.




JULY MEETING, 1978


19


Born near Temperance, Michigan, Dr. Moyer attended Eastern Michigan
University before coming to The University of Michigan to pursue a dental
education. After graduation from the School of Dentistry in 1931 he served
as a demonstrator in basic technics and operative dentistry. In 1943 he
earned the degree Master of Science and was promoted to Assistant Professor. In addition to his teaching duties, Dr. Moyer maintained an active
dental practice in Ann Arbor. In 1949 he was made Associate Professor and
named Chairman of the former Department of Basic Technics. In 1964 Dr.
Moyer was named Professor of Dentistry.
As head of the Department of Basic Technics, Dr. Moyer was responsible
for introducing freshmen and sophomore dental students to the art of dentistry. His idealism and ability to stimulate students to achieve excellence in
their clinical skills have contributed significantly to the School's reputation
for producing expert clinicians. That his influence upon the practice of dentistry in Michigan has been far-reaching is indicated by the fact that virtually every graduate of the School practicing dentistry today received his
or her instruction in basic clinical technics from Dr. Moyer.
With the advent of the revised curriculum and the new building in
1969, the department's name was changed to "Preclinical Dentistry," and
Dr. Moyer was joined by Dr. Harvey Schield as co-chairman. In addition to
his teaching duties and his private practice, Dr. Moyer has been active in
various professional organizations, and he served for nine years on the
board of the Michigan Children's Aid Society.
Well-liked by students and co-workers alike, Dr. Moyer's contributions
as a teacher of clinical skills in dentistry have had a significant impact upon
the quality of dental education established in the past 46 years of his association with the School of Dentistry.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
GEORGE E. PALMER, Professor of Law, has retired from          active  G. E. Palmer
faculty status as of May 31, 1978, after a devoted career of teaching and  Retirement
research.
Professor Palmer was born in Washington, Indiana in 1908. He received
both his A.B. (1930) and his J.D. (1932) from The University of Michigan.
From 1932 to 1939 he was engaged in private law practice in Indianapolis.
He then did a year of graduate study at Columbia, obtaining an LL.M. in
1940.
Professor Palmer began teaching as an Assistant Professor of Law at
the University of Kansas in 1940, and was promoted to Associate Professor
in 1945. His teaching was interrupted during World War II, when he spent
three years as counsel for the Office of Price Administration and served a
further short stint as an attorney in the Department of Justice. Professor
Palmer came to Michigan as an Associate Professor of Law in 1946. He was
advanced to full Professor in 1951.
The teaching specialties of Professor Palmer include Remedies, Restitution, and Trusts and Estates. Over the years he has produced numerous
articles marked by meticulous scholarship and impeccable style. His books
include Mistake and Unjust Enrichment (1962), Cases on Trusts and Succession (1968), and Cases on Restitution (1969). This year he will crown
his career with the publication of a four-volume treatise that promises to
be the definitive word on The Law of Restitution.
In an era that has increasingly succumbed to elaborate and often impenetrable statutes and regulations, Professor Palmer has been hailed as
"The Last Great Common Lawyer." For generations of Michigan students
who have sat dazzled (and sometimes quaking) in his classroom, the image
of him deftly cutting through the verbiage of some appellate judge's opinion
to the solid bedrock of fact beneath will long be one of the most cherished
memories of their law school years.
The Regents now salute this gifted lawyer and educator for his long




20


JULY MEETING, 1978


service to The University of Michigan by naming him Professor Emeritus
of Law.
N. Sherman     Professor NOAH    SHERMAN      retired effective May 31, 1978, after
Retirement  twenty years of service to the University.
Dr. Sherman was born in New York City on June 24, 1921, received his
Bachelor of Science degree from the City College of New York in 1948, his
Master of Arts degree in Physics at The University of Michigan in 1949
and his Ph.D. in Physics from The University of Michigan in 1952 with a
specialty in Cosmic Ray Physics. He was appointed as Instructor of Physics
at The University of Michigan in 1952-53, served as a Physicist at the University of California Radiation Laboratory from 1953 to 1956 and was
appointed Assistant Professor of Physics at The University of Michigan in
the fall of 1956. He was promoted to Associate Professor in 1961 and to
Professor in 1966.
His service to the University has included membership in SACUA and
on the Committee on the Proposal for the Establishment of a New College
appiinted by Dean Thuma. He was active in the development of and intensely interested in a wide variety of new teaching techniques and media.
He participated in the Academic Year Institutes held for high school science
teachers here at the University, served as liaison between the Department of
Physics and the Center for Learning and Teaching and assisted the development of a self-paced general physics course for Liberal Arts majors.
His research efforts began in experimental Cosmic Ray Physics, changed
to Theoretical Nuclear Physics and, in most recent years, to the development
of interactive programs for Computer Assisted Instruction. Professor Sherman
brought to all of his work a catching enthusiasm and dedication.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar for his many contributions
to the University by naming him Professor Emeritus of Physics.
E. Stasheff    EDWARD     STASHEFF, Professor of Speech       Communication   and
Retirement  Theatre, whose field was radio and television, has retired from the faculty as
of July 1, 1978, after twenty six years service to The University of Michigan.
He joined the faculty in 1952 as an Associate Professor and was promoted to
Professor in 1958.
Born in New York City, he was first a high school teacher and then an
educational radio broadcaster for the New York schools. He became active
in television in its earliest years when he joined CBS-TV in 1945 as an
educational consultant. Later he served WPIX-TV as a program specialist
and directed drama programs for the ABC-TV network.
Although he taught a wide range of courses, Professor Stasheff's specialty was television production and direction. Three books on this subject,
which became standard texts, and more than forty articles established him
as a national figure; the quality of his students, who found positions in
stations, networks, and universities around the country further enhanced
his reputation.
Throughout his career he continued to be an innovator in the television
field. While on leave, he served for a year as a Program Associate for
National Educational Television in its beginning years in 1957-58, and again
while on leave in 1965-66 he went to Israel to help that nation establish a
television service. He returned to Israel on two other occasions between
academic years to conduct training sessions and served on international committees dealing with educational television. He has also been a consultant
and given lectures in a number of other countries.
In 1968 he was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree by Eastern
Michigan University for his contributions as a teacher, writer, and specialist
in television in both this country and abroad.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his contributions
to this University and his field by naming him Professor Emeritus of Speech
Communication and Theatre.




JULY MEETING, 1978


21


ERNEST A. H. WOODMAN, Assistant Professor of Natural Resources,
has retired from active faculty status as of June 30, 1978, after a most productive career as a teacher and administrator.
A native of Massachusetts, he took undergraduate studies at the University of Alabama and The University of Michigan and received his M.B.A.
at The George Washington University in 1963. He served with the U.S. Army
as a colonel in the American, European, and Far Eastern theaters from 1940
until his retirement in 1966. During 1957-61, he served as Professor and
Chairman of the Department of Military Science at The University of Michigan. Upon retirement from the U.S. Army, he joined the School of Natural
Resources as an Assistant Professor in the Forestry Program and Assistant
to the Dean.
Professor Woodman taught a forest fire ecology course which was very
popular with the students. He served the School in the Assistant to the Dean
post representing the School of Natural Resources on the University's Admissions Board, Assistant and Associate Deans Committee, Advanced Classification Committee, Diving Safety Committee, Student Activities Board,
Community College Advisory Committee, and Scholarship Selection Committee for ROTC. He also held the positions of Liaison Representative with
the Development of Academic Opportunities Group and of Chairman of the
University Relations Committee. He is a member of the Victors Club and
the President's Club.
The Regents now salute Ernest A. H. Woodman for his dedicated service
by naming him Assistant Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources.


E. A. H. Woodman
Retirement


VII. DEATHS
Secretary Kennedy reported to the Regents the death of
Richard K. Beardsley, Professor of Anthropology and Director
of the Center of Japanese Studies. The following memorial statement was adopted:
It is with deep regret that the Regents learned of the death of Richard
K. Beardsley, Professor of Anthropology and Director of the Center for
Japanese Studies, on Friday, June 9, 1978, at the University Hospital. Professor Beardsley's untimely death at the age of 59 was a great shock to his
colleagues and students, and leaves a profound gap in the ranks of Michigan's
distinguished faculty in Japanese studies.
Co-author of several books on the culture of Japan, Professor Beardsley
specialized in the anthropology of the Far East and had carried out extensive
field work and other research in Japan. In such works as Village Japan,
Twelve Doors to Japan, and Japanese Culture: Its Development and Characteristics, along with many research publications, he wrote of the history
and politics of Japan and its changing social patterns. He was a figure of
national and international reputation in the field of Japanese studies.
Born December 16, 1918 in Cripple Creek, Colorado, Professor Beardsley
received the Bachelor of Arts degree in 1939 and the Ph.D. degree in 1947,
both from the University of California at Berkeley. After teaching briefly
at the University of Minnesota, he joined the Michigan faculty in 1947 as
instructor in the Department of Anthropology. He was thus the first of
several younger faculty members in various academic disciplines who had
major interests in Japan and became the core faculty of the Center for
Japanese Studies, which had been established in that year. He first became
Director of the University's Center for Japanese Studies in 1961, a post he
held several times, and in which he was serving at the time of his death. He
served as Acting Chairman of the Department of Anthropology in 1971-72.
Professor Beardsley's war service included 23 months' service overseas
as Navy language officer in Hawaii, Guam, Iwo Jima, and China.
His anthropological research took him several times to Japan, and also
to Spain, Soviet Central Asia and Mexico. He did work in the archaeology


R. K. Beardsley
Memorial
Statement




22


JULY MEETING, 1978


of western North America early in his career and retained a keen interest in
archaeology and ethnographic art throughout his life. In Japan he helped
set up the Center for Japanese Studies field station in Okayama in 1950-51
and served as its director for two years while studying Japanese village life.
He also served as adviser at the Second U.S.-Japan Conference on Educational and Cultural Interchange held in Washington, D.C., in 1963.
He was a member of Sigma Xi, Phi Beta Kappa, American Ethnological Society, Association for Asian Studies, American Association for the
Advancement of Science, Far Eastern Prehistory Association, American
Association of University Professors, American Anthropological Association,
Society for American Archaeology, Michigan Academy of Science, Arts and
Letters, The University of Michigan Science Research Club, and The University of Michigan Research Club. He served as trustee and continental
editor for the Council on Old World Archaeology, President of the Far
Eastern Prehistory Association, American Branch, and Director of the
Association for Asian Studies.
He was one of the first faculty members to carry his knowledge to the
wider community through the University of Michigan Television Center,
having done several programs dealing with Asia. He also had been active in
the Project on Asian Studies in Education. He worked tirelessly on behalf of
Michigan's East Asian Capital Campaign, particularly among Japanese
donors. He was widely known and respected in Japanese academic and
public circles and was very effective in making Michigan known in the
Japanese corporate and industrial world.
Professor Beardsley's interests included folk and tribal art and the
theory of culture change. At the time of his death, he was working on a
book based on a revisit to the Japanese community he studied 25 years ago
in preparation for his book, Village Japan.
Professor Beardsley was well known for his warmth and kindliness and
his gentle, balanced disposition. His calm, reasonable outlook helped his
colleagues and students weather more than one crisis, and his loss is deeply
felt by a host of friends. Among the distinguished members of the profession
who did their Ph.D. work at Michigan under Professor Beardsley's direction
are Nancy Gonzales, Vice Chancellor of the University of Maryland, and
Edward Norbeck, Chairman of the Department of Anthropology of Rice
University.
The Regents join the entire University community in extending deepest
sympathies to his family.
Degree Lists VIII. DEGREES
Amended
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Master of Architecture, April 1978
add:
Edward Wayne Alderman, with Distinction
Constance Emilie Goodsell
Nancy Gail Zak, with Distinction
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, May 1976
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Speech
delete:
Carol Ann Skimin, B.S., Northwestern University




JULY MEETING, 1978


23


Master of Arts, May 1977
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Speech
add:
Carol Ann Skimin, B.S., Northwestern University
Master of Science, April 1978
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Botany
correct to show:
James Martin Affolter, B.A., Williams College
Pharmacy
Pharmaceutical Chemistry
add:
Gary Edward Ross, B.S.
School of Nursing
delete:
Barbara A. Chenoweth, A.B., Frostburg State College
Master of Fine Arts, April 1978
Art
add:
Mark Allen Nelson, B.F.A., The Cleveland Institute of Art
Master of Urban Planning, April 1978
Architecture and Urban Planning
add:
Joan Miriam Kripke, A.B.
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 1976
correct to show:
Jeanne Eloise Arnold, with High Distinction; High Honors
in Anthropology
Bachelor of Arts, April 1977
delete:
Charles Michael Burack, with High Distinction
Bachelor of Arts, August 1977
add:
Charles Michael Burack, with High Distinction; High Honors
in Psychology
Peter Alan Prahar, with Distinction
Bachelor of Arts, December 1977
add:
Joseph Holmes Summers




24


JULY MEETING, 1978


Bachelor of Arts, April 1978
add:
Karl James Born
Amy Frances Brooks, with Distinction; High Honors in Economics
Brian Spes Dervishi, with High Distinction
Robin Debra Foster, with Distinction
Michael Jay Gerendasy, with Distinction
Terrence James Gillis, with Distinction
Steven Mark Gittleman, with Distinction; Honors in Economics
Roy Howard Glicklin
Paul Edward Godek, with High Distinction
Donald James Godell
Nur Akcasu Gokbaurak
Richard Jay Goldberg, with High Distinction
Shellie R. Goldberg, with High Distinction
Alan Stuart Goldenhar, with Distinction; Honors in English
Gene Kathryn Goldman
Janet Susan Goldrath, with Distinction
David Alan Golin, with High Distinction; High Honors in Economics
Robert Stanley Goralczyk, with Distinction
James Edward Gorman
Jonathan Gotlib, with High Distinction
Laveta Gould
John Charles Grabow, with High Distinction
Gilbert Jonathan Grant, with Distinction; Honors in Judaic Studies
James Dean Grassi, with High Distinction
Gerald Gregory Green, with High Distinction
Valeria Annette Green, with Distinction
Cindy Dee Greenberg, with Distinction
Gregory Richard Greenfield, with High Distinction; Honors in
Political Science
David Albert Groenke
Richard Lee Groffsky
David Brian Gross, with Distinction
Diane Susan Gurwitz, with Distinction; High Honors in Literature
and Film
Marcie Lynn Guth
Diane Carole Gutterman
Carol Ava Hoffman, with High Distinction
Joseph Talbot Kummer, with Distinction
Marcia Louise Louisell
Lisa Martel
Susan Marguerite Sandrock Maxon
Joanne Elizabeth Taychert Meagher, with High Distinction
Laura Jane Miller, with High Distinction
Kathleen Marie Morris, with Distinction
Theresa Lois Prince
John Charles Rexford, with Distinction
Paul T. Roberts, with High Distinction; High Honors in History;
Honors in Political Science
Marianne Charlotte Smith
Robert Freer Snook, with Distinction
Beatrice Jean Wylie, with High Distinction; High Honors in
American Culture
delete:
Carol Ava Hoffman, with Distinction
Lisa Martel, with Distinction
Susan Marguerite Sandrock Maxon, with High Distinction




JULY MEETING, 1978


25


Paul T. Roberts, with Distinction; High Honors in History;
Honors in Political Science
Marianne Charlotte Smith, with Distinction
Douglas Evan Weiss
Bachelor of Science, April 1978
add:
Paul Michael Edwards
Martin Lawrence Gillen, with High Distinction
James Robert Giordano, with High Distinction
Bruce Leon Goldman, with Distinction
Elliott Mark Goldstick
Thomas Charles Goodsell, with Distinction
Judy L. Goodstein, with Distinction
Gregory Lee Goyert, with High Distinction
Pamela Beth Graham
Thomas James Greene
Mary Elizabeth Gribbin
Jacquelyn Rae Grisdale
Nathan Lawrence Gross, with High Distinction
Ann Rebecca Grossbart, with Distinction
Douglas Richard Grundman, with Distinction; Honors in Mathematics
Edward Anthony Guerrini
Phyllis Jane Higman, with High Distinction
correct to show:
Mary Agnes Kelly, with Distinction
David Howard Warsh, with Distinction
Bachelor in General Studies, April 1978
add:
Ronald John Agnello
Lee Allen Berry
Richard Scott Goldstein, with Distinction
Robert Lewis Gordon
Rosemary Ann Gordon, with Distinction
David Michael Green, with Distinction
Jonathan Seth Green, with Distinction
Mark B. Green, with Distinction
Mary Katherine Grohs
Michele C. Guthrie
Johnetta Yvette Kershaw
Patrick Gerhard Nicolin
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, April 1978
correct to show:
Dennis Wayne Peck, with High Distinction; High Honors in Chemistry
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (Industrial and
Operations Engineering), April 1978
add:
James Otunuya Onuosa




26


JULY MEETING, 1978


School of Natural Resources
Bachelor of Science, April 1978
correct to show:
Deidre Louise Feeney, with Distinction
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Professional Development in Engineering, April 1978
add:
John A. Watt
Bachelor of Arts, April 1978
add:
Deborah Lynn Dalrymple
Bachelor of Science, April 1978
delete:
Deborah Lynn Dalrymple
The University of Michigan-Flint
Bachelor of Business Administration, May 1978
add:
Ralph William Huttenhower
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the May, 1978 Commencement exercises for the Law School.
The Regents approved the list of doctoral degree candidates,
as recommended by the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, for the August 20, 1978 Commencement exercises. They
also approved one deletion from that list.


Degrees Confirmed,
Law School
Doctoral Degrees
Approved


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
G. R. Ford  Regent Waters moved to approve the agreement between The
Library University of Michigan and the General Services Administration
to use the Gerald R. Ford Library as a Presidential Archival
Depository. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The agreement follows:
AGREEMENT
BETWEEN
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AND THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO UTILIZE AS A PRESIDENTIAL ARCHIVAL
DEPOSITORY LAND, BUILDINGS, AND EQUIPMENT
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN AS A PART
OF THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES SYSTEM
THIS AGREEMENT by and between the United States of America
and The Regents of The University of Michigan (hereafter "University"),
witnesseth:




JULY MEETING, 1978


27


WHEREAS, by letter dated December 13, 1976, the President of the
United States of America, Gerald R. Ford, conveyed for deposit in a Presidential Archival depository the materials described in said letter and its
attachments, and
WHEREAS, said offer was accepted by Robben W. Fleming, President
of The University of Michigan, on December 14, 1976, subject to ratification
by the University's governing Board of Regents, and
WHEREAS, The Regents of The University of Michigan duly ratified
said agreement by resolution on December 17, 1976, and
WHEREAS, James B. Rhoads, Archivist of the United States of America, pursuant to authority conferred upon him by Chapter 21, USC, Title 44,
also accepted the said offer on December 13, 1976,
NOW THEREFORE, in accordance with the aforesaid agreement and
pursuant to section 2108 of Title 44, United States Code, the Board of Regents of The University of Michigan, acting for and on behalf of The
University of Michigan, and the Archivist of the United States of America,
acting for and on behalf of the United States, covenant and agree as follows:
(1) University agrees to provide the site described in Exhibit A attached
and to construct and equip thereon a building more particularly described in
Exhibit B attached and to make available to the United States, but without
transfer of title, such land and building for use in perpetuity as the Gerald R.
Ford Library, all in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions
of that certain letter agreement dated December 13, 1976, by and between
then President Gerald R. Ford and The Regents of The University of Michigan and the United States of America, which said agreement, together with
annexes A and B attached thereto is hereto appended as Exhibit C and by
this reference fully incorporated herein and made a part of this agreement as
fully as if it were set out at length verbatim.
(2) United States agrees that when said facilities, as described in Exhibit
B to this agreement, have been completed by University and made available
to United States, United States will, at no expense to University, maintain,
operate and protect such depository in perpetuity as part of the national
archives system, provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prevent United States from contracting with University to provide maintenance and other needed services to United States upon mutually
acceptable terms, subject to the terms and conditions of Exhibit C and
applicable law, and further provided that the agreement of the United States
is fully contingent upon the fulfillment of the obligation of the administrator
of General Services to place this agreement before the Congress of the United
States for a period of sixty calendar days of continuous session as provided
in subsection 2108(a) of Title 44, United States Code.
(3) The terms and conditions of this agreement shall be modified,
amended, deleted, or otherwise changed only by written agreement of the
parties hereto.




28


JULY MEETING, 1978


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have set their hand and
seal this        day of July, 1978.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN


By:
By:
By:




R. W. Fleming, President


J. F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President
and Chief Financial Officer
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




Administrator of General Services


Mall Project,
UM-Dearborn,
Loan and Security
Agreements


Vice-President Brinkerhoff explained the resolution for the
two term loan and security agreements for financing the UMDearborn Mall project. He said it was more desirable to separate
the two loans in order to protect the University's allowable margin
between that which the student would pay under student loans
and that which the University would pay the bank.
Regent Nederlander inquired as to whether the University
would continue to increase its student loan funds by this method.
Mr. Brinkerhoff responded in the affirmative and explained
that the University of Michigan is involved in the Michigan
insured student loan program, which means that in the event of
payment default the University would be covered.
Regent Roach observed that the amount of student loan funds
the University is receiving from the State is declining. With the
unavoidable increases in tuition, more funds are needed to provide
financial aid to students. The University ought to provide loans
to students who are unable to secure the necessary aid through
other means. The loan agreement is ideal because there is little
risk involved and essentially it pays for itself.
Regent Baker said he was supportive of the observation that
any student should have access to a loan. He asked what restrictions were placed on this loan program. Did it involve providing
parental income statements?
Vice-President Shapiro responded that there is no means test
on the University loan program, but the financial aid office makes
an assessment of family support, if any, scholarship support, job
support, and so forth to determine a student's needs.
Regent Roach said that income test is used only when the
Federal Government provides for the interest on the loan. By




JULY MEETING, 1978


29


assessing the need of each applicant for financial aid, the legitimacy of the request can be determined.
Regent Baker indicated that the University should consider
specific regulations to prevent abuse of the program.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the revised project budget
for the UM-Dearborn Mall project of $5,700,000 and to adopt
the resolution providing for borrowing of funds and approval of
the two term loan agreements with Ann Arbor Bank and Trust
Company. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The resolution follows and the loan agreement appears as Appendix A to these minutes.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING (1) THE BORROWING OF FUNDS
FOR THE PROVIDING OF A UNIVERSITY MALL AT THE
DEARBORN CAMPUS AND (2) THE BORROWING OF
STUDENT LOAN FUNDS
WHEREAS, in order to properly serve the needs of students attending
the University of Michigan, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the
terms "Regents" and "University" hereinafter refer to the Regents or the
University or both as the context permits or requires), by resolution adopted
June 16, 1978, determined and by this resolution confirms that it is necessary
and advisable to construct, equip and furnish the University Mall and remodel buildings containing activities to be transferred to the University Mall
(the "Project") on the campus of the University of Michigan-Dearborn.
The University Mall is more particularly described as follows:
An approximately 84,000 gross square feet building (net assignable area of 63,387 square feet), located near the center of
campus, of two-story height, including skylit single story,
mezzanine and two-story sections and utilizing steel frame and
face brick, aluminum panel and glass exterior wall construction,
to be used for diagonal pedestrian mall, bookstore, commercial
leased areas, offices and classrooms;
WHEREAS, it is anticipated that the costs incidental to construction
and to the furnishing and equipping of the Project, as set forth in the
approved Project budget, will be $5,775,000; and
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Regents it is necessary and expedient
that it borrow by means of a commercial bank loan the sum of $5,700,000
to be used by it, together with other funds available in paying costs incidental to the construction and to furnishing and equipping of the Project;
and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order
to properly serve the needs of students attending the University, the Regents
determine it is necessary and advisable that additional funds be obtained
by the University and made available for loans to students to assist them in
defraying their costs of attending the University of Michigan; and
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Regents it is necessary and expedient
that it borrow by means of a commercial bank loan the sum of $1,500,000
to be used by it, together with other funds available, to provide student
loan funds which may be borrowed from the University by students attending the University; and




30


JULY MEETING, 1978


WHEREAS, the Project and student loans will be for the benefit of all
students attending the University; and
WHEREAS, there has been submitted for consideration of the Regents
proposed Term Loan and Security Agreements (the "Agreements") and
Promissory Notes (the "Notes") whereby the sums of $5,700,000 and
$1,500,000, respectively may be borrowed from ANN ARBOR BANK AND
TRUST COMPANY (the "Bank"), Ann Arbor, Michigan a State banking
corporation.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Regents borrow
for such purposes the total sum of $7,200,000 from the Bank upon the terms
and conditions more fully set forth in the Agreements. The repayment of
the loans is to be secured by a pledge of and payable out of Student Fees
or in the case of the $1,500,000 Note, the Student Loan Repayments, as
defined in the Agreements. The Regents also reserve the right to use from
Funds Legally Available Therefor, as defined in the Agreements for the
purpose of paying principal and interest on the loans; and
Be it further resolved that the Regents will cause to be segregated and
allocated from the fees charged and collected from students attending the
University of Michigan, or in the case of the $1,500,000 Note, the Student
Loan Repayments, for so long as any portion of the principal or interest on
the respective Notes shall remain unpaid, amounts, respectively, sufficient to
pay said installments of principal and interest on the Notes as they fall due
as provided in the Agreements. The Regents further covenant and agree that
they will cause to be charged and will use their best efforts to cause to be
collected from students attending the University of Michigan, fees sufficient
in amounts to meet its obligations under the Agreements; and
Be it further resolved that the Agreements attached hereto and the
Notes attached thereto are hereby approved, and
Be it further resolved that James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President of the
Regents, and Richard L. Kennedy, its Secretary, be and they are hereby
authorized, empowered, and directed in the name of the Regents and as its
corporate act and deed to execute and enter into the Agreements and Notes
in the amounts of $5,700,000 and $1,500,000, respectively, to the Bank,
substantially in the form as those submitted herewith, and to execute the
other documents and to take the other actions required by the Agreements;
and
Be it further resolved that the said officers be and they hereby are
authorized, empowered and directed for and in the name of the Regents and
as its corporate act and deed to make, consent to, and agree to any changes
in the terms and conditions of the Agreements and Notes which they may
deem necessary, expedient, and proper prior to or at the time of execution
of the Agreements and Notes, but no such amendment shall change the
provisions therein for the amounts to be borrowed, the interest to be paid
thereon, the payments required to be made, or the security pledged; provided, however, nothing herein contained shall be construed as limiting the
right of said officers to alter or change the date of issue of said Notes and
the date of the Agreements; and
Be it further resolved that the said officers, in the execution of said
Agreements and Notes, shall not pledge the credit of or create any liability
on the part of the State of Michigan, the Regents, or any member of this
Board, or any of their successors, other than to pledge or commit the
Student Fees, or in the case of the $1,500,000 Note, the Student Loan
Repayments, and Funds Legally Available Therefor, as provided in the
Agreements, respectively; and
Be it further resolved that should it develop that James F. Brinkerhoff,
Vice-President of the Regents, through illness, absence, or otherwise, be




JULY MEETING, 1978


31


unable to perform the acts he is herein authorized, empowered and directed
to perform, then in that case, Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary of the Regents,
is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to perform any and all acts
and deeds herein authorized and directed to be performed by said James F.
Brinkerhoff, and any action so taken by said Richard L. Kennedy shall be as
binding on the Regents as if performed by said James F. Brinkerhoff; and
Be it further resolved that should it develop that Richard L. Kennedy,
Secretary of the Regents, through illness, absence, or otherwise, be unable
to perform the acts he is herein authorized, empowered and directed to perform, then in that case, Chandler W. Matthews, Controller of the Regents,
is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to perform any and all acts
and deeds herein authorized and directed to be performed by the said
Richard L. Kennedy, and any action so taken by said Chandler W. Matthews
shall be as binding on the Regents as if performed by the said Richard L.
Kennedy.
Be it further resolved that the said officers are authorized, if they so
desire, to sign said Agreements and Notes and any other documents required
by the Agreement as J. F. Brinkerhoff, R. L. Kennedy, or C. W. Matthews,
respectively.
Regent Baker moved authorization to apply for funds under        HUD Loan
the Housing and Urban Development, College Housing Loan Pro-         Program
gram. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents received a report on an appropriation from      the   Renovations for
State Fire Marshall's office to the University to correct safety     Fire Safety
deficiencies at the Health Service Building and the Children's
Psychiatric Hospital.
A report, requested by the Regents, on methods of receiving       Bid Procedures
bids for construction projects was submitted for their information.   epor
The Regents received a report outlining the actions required      State Building
for University projects to be acquired and constructed by the        Procedures
State Building Authority.
The Regents received a report on the progress of the renova-      Hospital
Renovation
tions of the 7th level of University Hospital.                       Progress
Regent Nederlander moved to approve proceeding with the          Hospital
renovation of the Dietetics Department of University Hospital,       Approved
as recommended. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve proceeding with the
renovation and expansion of the Pulmonary Division Laboratory.
Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Dunn moved to accept the offer to purchase from the        H. F. Weber
University 40 acres of land in Powell Township, Marquette            Estate
County, from the Helen F. Weber estate, subject to a reservation
of the mineral rights. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
With respect to the request to lease certain lands in Marquette
County from the Helen F. Weber estate for mining purposes,




32


JULY MEETING, 1978


Regent Nederlander indicated that a long-term lease might encourage stockpiling of the land rather than exploration. He suggested that a covenant be added to the lease stating the company's
intention to commence exploration within a reasonable time.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff stated that one of the key aspects
of the agreement is the escalation of the advance royalty which
provides incentive for exploration. He said it would not be very
economical for the company to lease the land and not explore.
Regent Nederlander then moved to authorize the University
to renegotiate the proposal to include an affirmative covenant
which would commit the lessee to develop the rights. Regent
Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regent Laro
abstaining because of a potential conflict of interest.
Real Property  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request to sell certain
property on Broadway Street in Ann Arbor.
Regent Nederlander commented that it might be advisable to
add some deed restrictions on the property to eliminate the possibility of undesirable tenants.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff responded that it was possible to
do that, however, it must be done before the appraisal occurs.
Regent Baker suggested entering into a reasonable lease
agreement with the potential buyers to allow them to utilize the
property. This would enable the University to control the property
and forego the possibility of lowering its value.
Regent Roach moved authorization to proceed with the appraisal and sale of the property, subject to terms to be approved
by the Regents at a subsequent meeting. Regent Dunn seconded
the motion.
Regent Roach commented that if the University has no conceivable future need for this property, then it would be better to
turn the property into a productive asset by getting it back on
the tax roles of the City of Ann Arbor.
Regent Brown indicated that the owner of the adjacent
property should be contacted to ascertain their interest in the
property.
The motion made by Regent Roach and seconded by Regent
Dunn was adopted with the inclusion of exploring the suggested
alternatives.
Governmental  Regent Laro moved to authorize the University to invoke
Invked governmental immunity as a defense of a medical malpractice
case (Emily E. Justice - Davey Shepard Justice), and of a lawsuit
against the University (Nabil Farha). Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.




JULY MEETING, 1978


33


Regent Dunn moved to approve the request to negotiate with  Hospital Planning
Studies, funds for
banks or other financial institutions to finance the cost of hospital  ues
planning studies. Regent Laro seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Laro moved concurrence in awarding contracts to the  Library and
Learning
low bidders contingent upon release of funds by the Department Resources
of Management and Budget and the State Administrative Board  Buildiro
for the UM-Dearborn Library and Learning Resources Building.
Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker moved to authorize Chancellor Moran, UM-  Physical
Education
Flint, to sign a grant letter from the Mott Foundation, dated  Facility, Flint
June 16, 1978, offering $6 million for the construction of a physical education facility on the Flint campus. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Chancellor Moran explained that the formal transfer of rights
to Mott Community College will be brought back to the Regents
as a recommendation when the conditions for making the transfer,
as stipulated in the grant letter, have been met.
X. OTHER
Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the Vice-President for Hospital
Academic Affairs and the Vice-President and Chief Financial Rnproednts
Officer, with the endorsement of the Hospital Executive Board, to
take interim action to fill positions of Controller and Financial
Officer, an Associate Director for Hospital and Professional
Services, and an Administrator of the Psychiatric Hospitals, subject to confirming action by the Board of Regents in September.
Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
President Fleming reviewed the discussion of the Michigan  aSAFee
Assessment
Student Assembly fee assessment which occurred on Thursday.  sses
He said that he incorporated various suggestions and wrote a new
draft for consideration by the Regents. Mr. Daane, University
Counsel, Mr. Arnson, MSA president, and Mr. Rose and Mr.
Teich, legal aid attorneys have reviewed the resolution and are in
agreement that is an acceptable solution to the problem. He asked
that the Regents review the document and comment upon it.
Regent Roach stated that the new draft contains the substance of the comments during the previous discussion. In order
to avoid the interpretation that the Regents were incorporating
by reference the referenda the students conducted and to address
this issue again when students were on campus, he would like to
offer an amendment to the resolution.
Regent Roach then moved to amend the first sentence to read:
"That the Regents assess and collect for MSA a fee of $2.92 for




34


JULY MEETING, 1978


the fall and winter terms of 1978-79, subject to the following
conditions:"
Eric Arnson, President of MSA, indicated that student elections are held in April, therefore, it would be impossible to bring
the matter to the Regents before May when the students leave
the campus. He suggested extending the term to one full year,
thereby making it possible to renew the issue with the Regents in
September.
President Fleming commented that this would not present a
problem.
Regents Brown and Nederlander concurred that the contract
should extend to a full year. Even though the issue would be
considered again next summer, student reaction would be known
before that.
Regent Baker asked if there were any other fees placed by
MSA on the students in addition to the proposed fee. He received
a negative response.
Regent Roach moved that the resolution should be amended
to read: "That the Regents assess and collect for MSA a fee of
$2.92 per term starting in the Fall of 1978 through term IIIB
of 1979, subject to the following conditions:" Regent Waters
seconded the motion.
Regent Baker commented that all of the observations made
the previous day were not incorporated in the amendment. There
was no indication of making the fee non-mandatory, nor was there
an indication of incorporating the legal service structure into the
University administration.
He expressed his confidence in the present MSA officers, the
legal aid administrators, and the lawyers, but said that student
government changes and that confidence may become substantially less. In the University system there is an advisory relationship between student government, the administration and the
Regents of which he is supportive. He said that he sometimes
votes for and sometimes against what is perceived to be the
student interest, but at all times he votes for what he believes to
be the best interest of the University.
In continuing, Regent Baker said that this proposed fee represents a considerable amount of money which could be used for
an attack against the University, or some of the institutions that
make up this society, by a bureaucracy seeking to protect its
existence. In addition, this fee would add almost one percent to
the educational process. If it is, in fact, important to the University to provide this service, it could be incorporated into the
University system rather than delegated to outsiders whose long



JULY MEETING, 1978


35


term interests in the University are not necessarily the same as
the Board of Regents.
Regent Baker stated that he has always been opposed to
compulsory fees, especially when only a small percentage of the
entire student body has voted for it. He then moved to amend
the motion to assess the fee in a voluntary way. Regent Laro
seconded the motion for the purpose of further discussion.
Regent Brown commented that the students were provided an
opportunity to vote on this issue. The election took place at a
time when students were on campus. It is the students' privilege
as to whether they will participate in an election, however, those
students who did not vote must accept the responsibility of their
failure to do so. Of those who did vote on this issue, the MSA
fee assessment received an overwhelming majority in favor of it.
There is no evidence that those who did not vote are opposed to
it. Furthermore, if the Regents chose to accept some votes the
students make and do not accept others, the purpose of student
government and student elections is a travesty. The students have
demonstrated their interests and concerns in a responsible, democratic, and peaceful way, and the Board should encourage this
and accept their decision.
Regent Baker stated that it is the Board of Regents' prerogative to agree or disagree with student election results. The cost of
an education is already too high, and this added assessment will
contribute to further escalation. He indicated that his concerns
were for efficient management of this University; cost reduction
avenues must be considered.
Regent Roach stated that the Regents have already set a
precedent of assessing mandatory fees. There is a mandatory fee
in the housing contract and school and college student governments are supported in this manner. Present funding of MSA is
the only student government that gives students a choice. The
University is trying to provide impetus for the strengthening of
the central student government and the University encouraged
their constitutional reform. In view of the precedent already set
and the fact that this is a legitimate student function, he was
persuaded that the mandatory fee is in order.
Regent Nederlander commented that he has always viewed a
student vote in an advisory capacity and not necessarily something that the Regents must agree to. However, student government can be considered as part of their training, and they ought
to have fees to do this. These are legitimate concerns that the
Board of Regents have, such as the purpose for which they spend
their money. Students ought not to get involved in lobbying
activities which would cause problems for the University, or to
bring actions against the University. Whether the University pro



36


JULY MEETING, 1978


vides the funds, or the students are assessed directly, student
government council should be supported.
Regent Laro agreed that those services should be provided,
and that the mandatory provision should remain at this time with
future review to determine a different funding mechanism, if
necessary.
President Fleming called for the vote on Regent Baker's motion which placed the fee assessment on a non-mandatory basis.
The motion failed with Regents Brown, Dunn, Laro, Nederlander,
Power, and Roach voting no.
Regent Baker then moved that the Board of Regents direct
the administration to establish within the Office of General Counsel a division which would provide these legal services to the
student body of the University of Michigan and the cost of this
activity be underwritten as an administrative cost of the University. The motion failed for lack of a second.
President Fleming then called for the vote on Regent Roach's
original motion to approve the basic document as amended and
seconded by Regent Waters. It was adopted with Regent Baker
voting no. The resolution follows:
That the Regents assess and collect for Michigan Student
Assembly a fee of $2.92 per term starting in the Fall of 1978
through term IIIB of 1979, subject to the following conditions:
1. That the Campus Legal Aid Office purchase malpractice insurance naming the University as an additional insured party.
2. That the Campus Legal Aid Office agree to indemnify the
University for any litigation costs the University might sustain as a result of suits objecting to the collection of such
mandatory fee.
3. That the Campus Legal Aid Office serve only students; that
it not engage in any lobbying activities.
4. That no part of the mandatory fee collection allocated to
MSA be used, directly or indirectly, to initiate or cause to
be initiated, proceedings, concerted actions, or suits against
The University of Michigan, or its Regents, employees or
agents acting in their representative capacities.
5. That accountability procedures be worked out with the
Office of the Vice President for Student Services. Such procedures shall include, but not be limited to: (1) annual
audit; (2) annual reporting of activities of the Legal Aid
Office; and (3) the depositing and disbursement of funds
through the Student Organizational Services Business Office.
6. That no part of the mandatory fee collection allocated to
MSA shall be paid to or used in support of activities which




JULY MEETING, 1978


37


threaten the tax status of The University of Michigan under
the terms of Section 501 (c) (3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code.
That in the event of the violation of any of the above conditions the University cease forthwith to assess and collect said fees.
Regent Baker moved to direct the administration to study the
alternative of providing legal services to the student body of the
University of Michigan. Regent Laro seconded the motion.
Regent Nederlander indicated that the whole issue should be
reviewed in its totality next spring after the legal aid office has
had some experience. Alternatives should be brought up at that
time for consideration.
Regent Waters commented that he saw no need for further
study unless the students decide to have a legal system under the
administration. He said that if some student needs are not being
met under the present system, additional counsel can be provided
along with the proposed system.
Regent Baker said he would withdraw the motion and Regent
Laro his second.
Regent Nederlander indicated that when this issue is reviewed
next spring, consideration of establishing within the Office of General Counsel legal aid to students be included along with other
alternatives.
Regent Waters moved to approve the proposal to drop the  Degree Dropped
B.S. Applied Mathematics Degree in the College of Engineering, Einollege of
as recommended. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Power moved to approve membership in the Inter- Membership,
University Center for Japanese Language Study. Regent Waters Approved
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach moved to approve the membership applications  Medical Staff
to the medical staff of University Hospital. Regent Brown sec- Applcations,
onded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents received a report on the 1978-79 Family Housing  Family Housing
rates.                                                    Rates Report
The Regents received a report on the College Work Study  Work Study
Program at the University of Michigan.                    Program Report
Regent Roach moved to approve the closing of the Center for Closure of Center,
Coordination of Ancient and Modern Studies, as recommended. Approved
Regent Power seconded to motion and it was adopted.
The Regents received a report of the disbursement from the Wolfson Trust
Wolfson Trust Fund for the years 1976-77 and 1977-78.     FundReport




38               JULY MEETING, 1978
Field House,  Regent Laro moved to authorize the UM-Dearborn to inBudget,
Dearborn crease the project budget for the Field House (Recreation Building), as recommended. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Flint Riverfront  The Regents received a status report on the UM-Flint riveram    epus  t front campus development.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of June totaled $879.06.
The Regents adjourned to meet on September 14 and 15, 1978.
Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary




JULY MEETING, 1978


39


INDEX
Appointments, 10, 13; committee, 12
Ballis, W. B., retirement, 15
Bartels, R. C. F., retirement, 15
Beardsley, R. K., memorial statement, 21
Bid procedures report, 31
Budget, 1978-79, 3
Closure of Center, approved, 37
Dearborn: Field House budget, 38; Library and Learning Resources
Building, 33; Mall Project loan and security agreements, 28
Degrees: doctoral degrees, approved, 26; dropped in College of Engineering, 37; Law School list confirmed, 26; lists amended, 22
Emeritus titles approved, 11
Expendable Restricted Fund Budgets, 5
Family Housing rates report, 37
Flint: Physical Education facility, 33; Riverfront campus status report, 38
Ford, G. R., Library 26
Frankena, W. K., retirement, 16
Gifts, 8
Governmental Immunity invoked, 32
Historic Designation, Central Campus, 6
Hoch, E. L., retirement, 17
Hospital: fiscal operations report 1977-78, 1; planning report, 1; planning
studies funds, 33; renovations, 31; reassignment approved, 33
HUD loan program, 31
Iglehart, R. L., retirement, 17
Kerr, D. A., retirement, 18
Leaves of Absence, 11, 15
Medical Staff applications, approved, 37
Membership, approved, 37
Moyer, R. S., retirement, 18
MSA Fee Assessment, 3, 33
Palmer, G. E., retirement, 19
Promotions, 10, 14
Real Property, 32
Renovations for fire safety, 31
Resignations, 14
Sherman, N., retirement, 20
Stasheff, E., retirement, 20
State Building Authority procedures, 31
Tuition, 1978-79, 2
Weber, H. F., estate, 31
Wolfson, Trust Fund report, 37
Woodman, E. A. H., retirement, 21
Work Study program report, 37




40


JULY MEETING, 1978


APPENDIX A
TERM LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
STUDENT LOAN FUND
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 1st day of
August, 1978, between THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN, a body corporate created by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan (the "University"), and ANN ARBOR
BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, a state banking corporation of Ann
Arbor, Michigan (the "Bank");
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the University, in the exercise of its constitutional duties,
and in order to properly serve the needs of students attending the University, has determined that it is necessary and advisable that it fund loans to
students attending the University to better enable them to afford the costs
and expenses associated with attendance at the University; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously borrowed $1,000,000 to fund
such student loans and to pay the administrative costs relating thereto
pursuant to Term Loan and Security Agreements dated February 1, 1975
and August 1, 1975, respectively, each in the amount of $500,000, of which
Term Loans $400,000 on each remains outstanding; and
WHEREAS, it is determined that additional sums necessary to fund
such student loans and pay the administrative costs relating thereto will
total $1,500,000; and
WHEREAS, the University, by proper resolution, has determined to
borrow by means of a commercial bank loan the sum of $1,500,000 which
together with other available funds, shall be used to fund such student loans
and to pay the administrative costs incidental to such a student loan program; and
WHEREAS, the Bank is willing to make the said loan for the said
purpose upon the terms and conditions more fully set forth herein;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
agreements herein contained, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
Section 1
Definitions
In addition to the words elsewhere defined in this Agreement, the following words as used herein shall have the following meaning unless the context
clearly otherwise indicates.
Fiscal Year-The term "Fiscal Year" shall mean any consecutive twelve
month period employed by the University in keeping its books of account.
Funds Legally Available Therefor-The term "Funds Legally Available
Therefor" as used herein shall mean any moneys of the University that may
be legally used by the University to pay principal of, and interest on, the
Note but shall not include any funds (a) currently or subsequently pledged
for, or committed to present or future loans or other purposes to the extent
so pledged, or committed or (b) the use of which would result in the loan
herein authorized being construed as indebtedness of the State of Michigan
under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.




JULY MEETING, 1978


41


Parity Obligations-The term "Parity Obligations" shall mean the Note
and any other debts or obligations of the University secured by a pledge of
and first lien against Student Fees, including the existing Parity Obligations
specified in Section 7 and any additional Parity Obligations hereafter issued
by the University from time to time in accordance with Section 8.
Student Fees-The term "Student Fees" shall mean the general tuition
fees established from time to time by the University, and collected from or
on behalf of students attending any campus of the University of Michigan.
Student Loans-The term "Student Loans" shall mean loans to students
attending the University funded with (a) proceeds of the loan contemplated
by this Agreement; (b) proceeds of Student Loan Repayments, or (c) insurance or guaranty payments by the Michigan Higher Education Assistance
Authority to the University on account of any defaulted Student Loan
funded pursuant to (a) and (b) above.
Student Loan Repayments-The term "Student Loan Repayments" shall
mean all payments of principal and interest made to the University on
account of Student Loans.
Section 2
Commitment of the Bank
The Bank agrees to lend to the University and the University agrees to
borrow from the Bank the sum of $1,500,000. The Loan shall be evidenced
by a note of the University to the Bank (the "Note") in the principal
amount of $1,500,000 in the form annexed as Exhibit A, dated the date the
Loan is drawn-down and maturing on April 1, 1982 and bearing interest at
a rate of interest per annum equal to 60% of the prime rate of the Bank at
the time the Loan is drawn-down and the Note executed, interest only payable on April 1, 1979 and semi-annually thereafter as provided in the Note,
both principal and interest payable solely from the funds and in the manner
hereinafter provided. All principal and interest on the Note shall be paid
from Student Loan Repayments and to the extent necessary, from Student
Fees as provided in Sections 5 and 6 of this Agreement and in the Note or
in the discretion of the University from Other Funds Legally Available
Therefor. The principal of, and interest on, the Note shall be payable in
lawful money of the United States of America at the principal office of the
Bank. A five (5) business day grace period will be allowed for each principal or interest payment.
Section 3
Prepayment of the Note
Except as herein otherwise provided, upon thirty days written notice,
the University may from time to time prepay the principal of the Note, in
whole or in part, by paying the principal amount so to be prepaid, together
with accrued interest, if any, on such principal amount. No such prepayment
shall reduce the amount of the Student Fees to be set aside under Sections
5 and 6 hereof. The minimum partial prepayment shall not be less than
$50,000.
Section 4
Arbitrage Covenants of the University
The University covenants and agrees that it will not invest or reinvest
the proceeds of the loan in a manner which would cause the Note to constitute an "arbitrage bond" within the meaning of Section 103(d) of the
Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
The University further covenants and agrees that at least 90% of all
Student Loan Repayments shall be used for one or more of the following
purposes:




42


JULY MEETING, 1978


(a) To pay the principal of or interest on the Note.
(b) To reimburse the University, or to pay for administrative costs of
issuing the Note.
(c) To reimburse the University, or to pay for administrative and other
costs and anticipated future losses directly related to the Student
Loans.
(d) To make additional Student Loans.
(e) To prepay the Note at the earliest practicable date of payment.
The University shall keep full and complete records of all deposits to,
and withdrawals from, each of the funds and accounts related to the Student
Loan Repayments, Student Fees and the proceeds of this financing and of all
other transactions relating to such funds and accounts and of all investments
and reinvestments of moneys in such accounts and the interest and gain
derived therefrom.
Section 5
Allocation of Student Loan Repayments, Student Fees
The University covenants and agrees that it will from time to time
allocate out of the collections of Student Loan Repayments amounts sufficient, when combined with Funds Legally Available Therefor, to pay installments of the principal and interest on the Note as they fall due.
Except as otherwise provided in this agreement, such Student Loan
Repayments are pledged solely and only for the payment of the principal of
and interest on the Note, and the University covenants and agrees that it
will use and apply such Student Loan Repayments for said purpose so that
said principal and interest will be paid promptly when due. Such Student
Loan Repayments shall be applied first to pay interest on the Note as the
same becomes due and thereafter shall be applied on and used to pay the
principal of the Note as the same becomes due.
The University further covenants and agrees that in the event Student
Loan Repayments are not received in amounts and at times sufficient to
assure payment of the installments of the principal and interest on the Note
as they fall due, it will from time to time allocate out of the collections of
Student Fees, amounts sufficient, when combined with the Student Loan
Repayments or other Funds Legally Available Therefor in the possession of
the University which it may appropriate for that purpose, to pay the installments of the principal and interest on the Note as they fall due.
The University reserves the right to use any Funds Legally Available
Therefor for the purpose of paying principal or interest on the Note.
So long as the installments of principal and interest on the Note are
paid when due, the University may in its discretion allocate excess funds
generated from Student Loan Repayments and Student Fees to such other
lawful purposes of the University as are consistent with the requirements of
Section 4 of this Agreement and the Agreements relating to Parity Obligations of the University.
Section 6
Covenants Re: Student Fees, the
Creation of a Lien Thereon and the Pledge Thereof
The University covenants and agrees that as long as the Note remains
unpaid, as to either principal or interest, it will establish and maintain
Students Fees to be collected from the students attending the University of
Michigan in amounts sufficient to provide annual sums equal to at least two
hundred per cent (200%) of the maximum future annual debt service requirements on all Parity Obligations. The pledge of Student Fees hereby
shall constitute and be a first lien or charge against the Student Fees, which
shall be of equal standing with lien or charge thereon made with respect to




JULY MEETING, 1978


43


existing Parity Obligations described in Section 7 of this Agreement and
with any additional Parity Obligations to be incurred, as authorized by
Section 8 of this Agreement.
Section 7
Priority of Pledge and Lien on the Student Fees
The pledge of Student Fees for payment of the principal of and interest
on, the Note shall be of equal standing and priority of lien with the pledge
of Student Fees for other Parity Obligations, including additional Parity
Obligations which may be issued pledging Student Fees, as authorized py
Section 8 of this Agreement and the existing Parity Obligations of the University, as follows:
1. University Events Building Bonds
Original Amount Issued-$5,800,000
Dated-February 1, 1966
Final Maturity-April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$4,195,000
2. Graduate Library Building Bonds
Original Amount Issued-$2,000,000
Dated-July 1, 1969
Final Maturity-April 1, 1999
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$1,570,000
3. Renovation and Addition to the
Michigan Union Building-Term Loan
Original Amount Issued-$559,000
Dated-September 20, 1974
Final Maturity-April 1, 1980
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$259,000
4. Student Loan Fund-Term Loan
Original Amount Issued-$500,000
Dated-February 1, 1975
Final Maturity-April 1, 1986
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$400,000
5. Student Loan Fund-Term Loan
Original Amount-$500,000
Dated-August 1, 1975
Final Maturity-April 1, 1986
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$400,000
6. Recreational Activities Building Fee Bonds
Original Amount-$6,170,000
Dated-August 1, 1975
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$5,820,000*
[*Qualified to the extent that certain investment securities acquired
with the proceeds of the $6,590,000 Recreational Activities Buildings
Fee Refunding Bonds are sufficient to retire the outstanding Recreational Activities Building Fee Bonds as they mature or are subject
to redemption on October 1, 1985.]
7. Flint Parking Facility-Term Loan
Original Amount-$280,000
Dated-September 21, 1976
Final Maturity-April 1, 1982
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$180,000




44


JULY MEETING, 1978


8. Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$6,590,000
Dated-July 1, 1977
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$6,590,000
9. Hospital Facilities Acquisition Fee Bonds
Original Amount-$6,400,000
Dated-November 1, 1977
Final Maturity-April 1, 1981
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$6,400,000
10. Dearborn Recreational Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$3,500,000
Dated-April 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 2008
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$3,500,000
11. Dearborn Campus University Mall-Term Loan
Original Amount-$5,700,000
Dated-August 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 1982
Amount Outstanding-to be issued approximately
simultaneously herewith.
Section 8
Additional Parity Obligations
Additional Parity Obligations for authorized purposes may be issued or
incurred by the University, secured by additional allocations of Student
Fees, having equal standing and priority of lien or charge against Student
Fees with the Note and with the existing Parity Obligations described in
Section 7 hereof, provided:
(a) the University by its Controller certifies that the total amount of
Student Fees collected by the University in each of its last two preceding
complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such proposed additional
Parity Obligations are equal to at least 200% of the maximum annual
principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity Obligations and the proposed additional Parity Obligations during any
future Fiscal Year the Note is scheduled to be outstanding; and
(b) the proposed additional Parity Obligations shall be payable as
to principal only on April 1 of the year or years of maturity and payable as to interest either annually or semi-annually on April 1 or
October 1 of such years.
Section 9
Release of Loan Proceeds
Upon five days written notice by the University to the Bank, but prior
to October 1, 1978, it is agreed that the Bank will release the entire proceeds
of the Loan to the University for the purpose of making Student Loans,
subject to delivery to the Bank of the duly executed Note, the approving
opinion of the University's counsel dated as of the date of the Note sub-:stantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B and upon receipt of the
usual closing certificates and documents in form satisfactory to the Bank.




JULY MEETING, 1978


45


Section 10
Security and Immunity
No property of the University, except the Student Fees, shall be security
for, levied upon or sold to pay the principal of, and interest on, the Note.
No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, stipulation, or agreement contained in this Agreement or the Note shall be had against the State
of Michigan, or against the corporate body known as The Regents of the
University of Michigan, except the remedies provided in Section 13 hereof.
No recourse to any personal liability shall be had for redress under any of
the obligations, covenants, stipulations, or agreements of this Agreement, or
the Note, upon, from, or to any officer of the University of Michigan or any
member of the Board of Regents, either directly through the University, by
any legal or equitable proceeding by virtue of any statute or otherwise, it
being hereby expressly agreed that no personal liability shall attach to, or
be incurred by, the said officers or any member of the Board of Regents
or any or either of them, under or by reason of any or either of the obligations, covenants, stipulations, or agreements herein incurred, or in the Note,
expressed or contained therein, or implied therefrom, it being expressly
understood and agreed that this Loan is secured by only Student Loan Repayments and Student Fees, and payable only from Student Loan Repayments and Student Fees and Funds Legally Available Therefor and that no
other liability for the payment of moneys shall attach to, or be incurred by,
the State of Michigan, the University, any member of the Board of Regents,
or any member or officer of the University of Michigan, or its or their
successors, all other liability, except as herein provided, being expressly
waived.
Section 11
Representations and Warranties
The University represents and warrants that:
(A) No litigation or governmental proceedings are pending, or, to the
knowledge of the University, threatened against the University which seeks
to enjoin the execution of delivery of the Note or this Loan Agreement or
which could have a material adverse effect on this Loan or the security
therefor.
(B) All acts required by the Constitution and applicable statutes of the
State of Michigan, and all applicable rules and regulations of The Regents
of the University, have been, or will be, complied with by the execution of
this Agreement, and the said Agreement is, and the Note, when issued, will
be valid and binding in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof.
(C) All acts necessary to perfect a security interest in the pledged
Student Loan Repayments and Student Fees to the Bank have been taken
by the University as required by the statutes of the State of Michigan and
the University agrees that it will execute such appropriate instruments as
the Bank may supply to the University to continue the perfected lien of
security interest.
(D) The execution of this Agreement will not violate or be in contravention of any loan agreement, mortgage, deed, indenture, or other undertaking to which the University is a party or by which it is bound.
Section 12
Events of Default
If any one or more of the following events herein called "Events of
Default," shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of the Note
and accrued interest thereon shall become due and payable upon demand:




46                  JULY MEETING, 1978
(A) Default in the payment when due of interest on, or the principal
of, the Note beyond the five (5) business day grace period provided in
Section 2 hereof and the continuance thereof for twenty-five (25) days
thereafter;
(B) Default in the observance or performance of any other agreement
of the University herein set forth, and the continuance thereof for thirty
(30) days after written notice thereof to the University from the Bank;
(C) Any representation or warranty made by the University herein or
any representation or warranty made by the University in any report,
statement, schedule, or certificate furnished to the Bank pursuant to this
Agreement, proves to be untrue in any material respect as of the date,
respectively, of this Agreement or as of the date of such report, statement,
schedule, or certificate.
Section 13
Remedy on Default
In case of any Event of Default, the Bank may proceed to enforce its
rights, either by mandamus or other remedy provided by law, to compel
the University to perform each and every covenant herein contained, or by
injunction, or other remedy provided by law, to prevent the University from
performing any act in violation of said covenants.
The University expressly authorizes the Bank to bring any of the actions
at law or in equity hereinbefore mentioned, and hereby waives any immunity
to be proceeded against as herein authorized which may exist by reason of
its being a subdivision of the Michigan State Government.
Section 14
Miscellaneous
(A) Any notice or demand which by the provisions of this Agreement
is required or provided to be served to or upon the University or the Bank,
respectively, shall be deemed to be given or served for all purposes by being
sent by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed to The Regents of the
University of Michigan, Investment Office, Administration Building, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, and to Ann Arbor Bank and Trust Company, 101
South Main Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48107 respectively, or if any other
address shall at any time be designated by either in writing received by the
other, to such other address.
(B) No course of dealing between the University and the Bank or any
delay on the part of the Bank in exercising any rights hereunder or under
the Note shall operate as a waiver of any rights hereunder or under the
Note or otherwise.
(C) If and when the principal of, and interest on the Note shall have
been paid in full, then this Agreement shall be terminated and shall be of
no further force and effect. Within thirty (30) days after such termination,
the Bank shall cancel the Note and return it to the University and execute
an instrument provided by the University which shall specifically release the
University from the covenants herein.
(D) Should any provision, sentence, or section of this Agreement be
held invalid for any reason, such holding shall not be construed as affecting
the validity of any remaining portion of said section or of this Agreement.
(E) This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts,
together shall and will constitute one and the same instrument.




JULY MEETING, 1978


47


Section 15
Audits and Accounts
The University agrees to provide to the Bank upon request summaries
of existing information relating to the collection of Student Loan Repayments and Student Fees and the allocation thereof, and the enrollment of
students. The University further agrees to furnish to the Bank on or before
October 31, of each year, as a part of the annual audit of the University
prepared by a certified public accountant selected by the University, information showing the collection, allocation and disposition of the Student Loan
Repayments and Student Fees.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Regents of the University of Michigan
has caused these presents to be signed by its Vice President, attested by its
Secretary, and sealed with its corporate seal, and Ann Arbor Bank and Trust
Company has caused these presents to be executed on its behalf by its Vice
President, attested by its Cashier, and its corporate seal to be hereunto
affixed, all as of the 1st day of August, 1978.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN
By
J. F. Brinkerhoff,
Vice President
Attest:
R. L. Kennedy,
Secretary
THE ANN ARBOR BANK AND TRUST
COMPANY
By
Attest:
Vice President and Cashier




48


JULY MEETING, 1978


Exhibit A                                       Ann Arbor, Michigan
NOTE
$1,500,000, 1978
The Regents of the University of Michigan, a body corporate created
by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan, promises
to pay to the order of Ann Arbor Bank and Trust Company at its main
office in the City of Ann Arbor, Michigan, the sum of One Million Five
Hundred Thousand ($1,500,000) Dollars, together with interest thereon at
the rate of   _    % per annum upon all principal sums at any time and
from time to time unpaid hereon; but only from Student Loan Repayments
and Student Fees, as defined in a certain Term Loan and Security Agreement
between the Regents of the University of Michigan and Ann Arbor Bank
and Trust Company, Ann Arbor, Michigan, dated August 1, 1978. Payment
shall be as follows:
Payment Dates   Interest Payment  Principal Payment  Total Payments
The foregoing payments shall be subject to adjustment as provided in
the Term Loan and Security Agreement in the event of prepayment of principal as provided therein.
This Note is issued pursuant to, is entitled to the benefits, and is subject
to all of the terms and conditions of the Term Loan and Security Agreement
hereinbefore described.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN
By ___
J. F. Brinkerhoff,
Vice President
By 
R. L. Kennedy,
Secretary




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1978
The Regents met at 2:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors
Goodall and Moran and Vice-Presidents Shapiro, Brinkerhoff,
Radock, Overberger, Johnson and Vice-President and Secretary
Kennedy also were present.
President Fleming called the meeting to order and said that President Fleming
by consent of the Regents the order of the agenda would be  Retirement
altered so that he could make the following statement:
"In December of 1978 I shall be eligible for early retirement
from the University. Accordingly, I have during the past year
talked with the Regents about my desire to retire in 1979. This is
consistent with my oft-repeated statement that universities benefit
from periodic changes in leadership.
"Initially, I had planned to retire next summer, or perhaps
September 1, whichever date was most convenient for the University and my successor. However, since my wife and I wish to
continue in some other assignment, we have had to consider other
positions as they occur. Among the other opportunities that have
been presented to us is a proposal that I become president of the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting in Washington, D.C. To do
so requires that I take the position in January 1979. The Regents
have been kind enough to consent to my departure at that time,
and I am advised that the Board of the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting acted on the proposed appointment today. We find
public radio and television an exciting field.
"Though Sally and I have been unswerving in our conviction
that it would be well for the University to enter on a period of
new leadership, we would not want to pretend that the decision
to leave the University and Ann Arbor has been easy for us. We
have great affection and respect for both the University and the
city. We own a home here and we hope, after a few years in
Washington, D.C., to return here to live. In the interim, we hope
to be here often. The Regents, the faculty, the staff, the students,
and the community have been enormously kind to us. And The
University of Michigan is, and will continue to be, one of the
49




50


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


great universities of the world. We shall always consider ourselves
a part of it.
"The Regents have laid careful plans for finding my successor
and I am sure they will have the cooperation of the entire academic
community in that undertaking.
"There are many things to be done this Fall, and I shall in
no way reduce my efforts to see that they are done. In the interval
between my departure and the naming of a successor, I shall want
to be helpful in every way possible. Beyond that time, I shall
always be pleased to be of assistance when this seems desirable."
Statement by  Mrs. Fleming then added the following statement:
Mrs. Fleming
"I think I should add my thoughts to Bob's that it has been
a very difficult decision to make because The University of Michigan in all aspects has been tremendously good to both of us. It
is very difficult to leave Ann Arbor. The Regents, the faculty,
students, our friends both on campus and in the community have
opened their arms to us and I feel-we both feel-very much at
home here.
"Mr. Fleming has said that we have felt that the time was
right, and I think that he is the right man at the right time for
the job that has been offered to him in Washington. These opportunities do not come by all the time, and I think that he needs a
challenge, and he will do an excellent job for them.
"We are very grateful to the University and, we are very sorry
to leave you, but we will be here eventually again."
Statement by  Regent Nederlander then said, "Mr. President and Sally, on
Regent
Nederlander behalf of the Regents we would like to make this statement. Then
when I am finished the individual Regents want to say something."
"President Fleming communicated to each of us his desire to
resign as President of The University of Michigan. Notwithstanding our individual entreaties to him to continue in his present post,
we respect, honor and accept his decision to resign in January,
1979. He has given eleven years of outstanding, dedicated and
exemplary service to the university community, and we are most
grateful.
"The Regents have each reviewed and studied the proceedings
of the special committee on selection of a president created in
1966 and the history of that process. The Regents have determined
that the selection of the next president will be accomplished in
substantially the same manner as in 1966-67. The responsibility
for a presidential appointment is vested by the Constitution of
the State of Michigan in the Board of Regents. This duty cannot
be delegated. The final choice will be made by the Board of
Regents.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


51


"The Regents welcome suggestions from the faculty, students
and alumni in this most important undertaking. It is contemplated
that committees of faculty, students and alumni will be invited
to be formed for this purpose. The Regents will also be open
to suggestions from the entire university community, the people
of Michigan and any individual having an interest in The University of Michigan.
"This statement has been circulated among the entire Board
of Regents, and represents the consensus of the Regents' opinions.
"As a result of the foregoing, the Regents hereby adopt the
following:
RESOLVED, THAT                                                       Presidential
Selection
(a) A special committee on selection of a president consisting of  Committee
Regents Deane Baker, Paul W. Brown, Gerald R. Dunn, David Laro, Robert  Established
E. Nederlander, Sarah Goddard Power, Thomas A. Roach and James L.
Waters, or the successor in office of each such person, be and is hereby
established.
(b) The function of this Committee, to be known as Selection Committee, shall be to consider all matters in connection with selecting a president.
It shall receive suggestions as to candidates and arrange for interviews with
selected candidates and the making of recommendations as to the appointment of a president to the Board of Regents at the appropriate time.
(c) The Chairman of the Committee shall be Robert E. Nederlander.
(d)  In connection with the appointment of a president, the Board of
Regents invites the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs to
appoint a representative committee of not more than fifteen members. The
Board of Regents also invites the Michigan Student Assembly to select a
representative committee of not more than ten members and the Board of
Directors of the Alumni Association to appoint a similar committee of not
more than ten members. These committees shall suggest future University
needs and the names of candidates.
(e) The Board of Regents also invites suggestions from the entire
University community, the people of Michigan, and any individual having
an interest in The University of Michigan.
(f) The Selection Committee shall have the power and authority to
take such steps and perform such acts as may be necessary or proper in
carrying out its assignment.
(g) Allan F. Smith is hereby designated as Acting President of the
University to take office upon the effective date of the resignation of Robben
Fleming.
The above resolution was seconded by Regent Dunn and
unanimously adopted.
Individual Regents then commented as follows:
Regent Waters:                                                       Regents
I have enjoyed my relationship and serving on the Board with       Comments
Bob and Sally. They will be dearly missed by the Board of




52


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


Regents and the University. Over the past my wife and I have
had the opportunity to travel with Bob and Sally to a few places
where there were other university presidents and their wives,
and I have always felt, and so has Nancy, that they were by far
the best that we have ever seen. At times it looked as if the Board
was rubber stamping a lot of the President's decisions, and I think
the reason for that is that Bob has always had the best interest of
the University in mind, and his decisions and recommendations
have been reasonable and easy to support. The few times that
I did disagree with him, I always knew that whatever decisions
were made it was in the best interest of the University as well as
the State of Michigan. I am sure he is going to do a good job in
Washington. I wish you and Sally the best of luck.
Regent Laro:
Mr. President, when I first was appointed to this Board several
years ago, I looked forward to the opportunity of serving this
University and of being of any help I could to it. I did not realize
then, because I did not know you both as well as I do now, really
how enriching the opportunity would be for me to have the opportunity to work with you. I know that one of the things that this
University certainly stands for is the teaching of higher education
in its finest manner and that is best exemplified by your careful
guidance to this Board. You have inspired not only the faculty
and the students but you have inspired the Regents to do a better
job. On several occasions I have been in your home with other
guests and dignitaries and with heads of state, and I have observed
the great respect which you have been given by others all over
the country and around the world. Your recent trip to South Africa
is only another example of the kind of recognition that the world
gives you for the job that you have done at this University. We
have only the greatest affection for you. I personally thank you
for the enjoyment of being able to serve with you.
Regent Power:
Mr. President, I have heard your statement with deep personal
regret. The nation and the Public Broadcasting Corporation will
be the beneficiaries of the many talents that you have exercised
with discretion and devotion on behalf of this University during
the past decade. There is, however, one matter, Mr. President, to
which I feel incumbent to address myself briefly, and that is the timing of the assumption of your new duties. Allow me to point out that
the football season opens this Saturday. Only in recent months, sir,
have I detected in you a small but increasing, tentative but




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


53


encouraging, acknowledgment of my ability to grasp some of
the obvious intricacies of football, and that, Mr. President, in
the words of a great eighteenth century philosopher, puts air
under my track shoes. Under your patient guidance I have come to
understand that the matter of our hospital replacement is at heart
a veer formation with a quarterback draw attached. That our
long revered financial policy, taking it out of interest, is essentially
a buck lateral series. That our faculty search committee process
is, in fact, a delayed screen pass. And that the matter of historical
designation of part of our campus is similar to an over-shifted
nose guard led, semi-zone, five-two defense. With personal sadness,
and God knows, some despair, Mr. President, I must acknowledge
that your wise and long suffering instruction to me will soon end.
However, Mr. President, to do credit to the faith you have had
in me, I shall continue in all further matters brought before the
Regents to attempt to throw set shots, past the short stop as we
drive from the red line for a four point touchdown.
Rgent Roach:
Mr. President, we have been singularly fortunate these last
eleven years to have at Michigan the finest University President
in the United States, and Sally has been the finest wife of a
President of any university in the United States. The task you
leave us-replacing you-is an immense one. But, one thing you
have taught us is the importance of consultative leadership, and
the importance of the involvement of the University community
as a whole. We will be ever in your debt for the service you have
given this University.
Regent Baker:
Mr. President: The University of Michigan has been fortunate
over the years to have benefitted from the exemplary leadership
of outstanding Presidents. Certainly, Bob, the quality of your
leadership ranks high among the other great Presidents of the
University. There have been both good and difficult times during
your tenure, as the bruises and the scars dimly show, but they
are there-from the difficult times in the '60's, the war, student
unrest, and all of those dramatic events which the University has
endured. They were also times of inflation, sagging legislative
financial support, and federal indifference. Nevertheless, you resolved or brought into proper perspective, all of these problems
as they affect the University. You exercised leadership in a fair
manner, an honest manner, and in a reasonable manner, and more
importantly, you made progress in every area of building a great




54


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


University. In spite of your usual gentleness you were a "tough
guy" when you needed to be, you did the job and you did it right.
You led this University forward and upward, towards new horizons, through the recruitment of excellent faculty, administrators
and staff, in intellectual pursuit, in teaching, in public service, and
in research, not only within the state-wide arena, but nationally
and internationally. You leave the University a better place than
when you came. For the people of Michigan we thank you and
we wish you and Sally well.
Regent Brown:
Mr. President, like many here I am saddened that you are
leaving. I came on the Board shortly after you became president,
and in the experiences of the past eight years, I have always found
your ways to be considerate, polite, and moral. I have learned a
great deal about reasonable ways to make decisions on many
important matters, not only for the University, but concerning life
in general. I had some hope that you might stay here until retirement, and if you chose to retire soon, you would have an opportunity to work on your golf game so we could have a little better
competition. I guess that will have to wait for another five or six
years. So, on behalf of my wife and myself and the people of the
State of Michigan, I want to thank you for your service to the
University. It is a better place having had you both here. I certainly wish you good luck, and good fortune in your new position
which I know you will find challenging and interesting. They are
fortunate in having someone of your caliber and your qualities
to direct that establishment for the next several years. Sorry to
see you go.
Regent Dunn:
Mr. President and Sally, you, Regent Nederlander and I have
been around here a long time. The past years have been good
years. I think the University, our country, and our State are better
places today as a result of some of the decisions that were made
under your leadership. I am sorry, personally, to see both of you
leave. I wish you well, but I want you to know that between now
and December I will be working on a toast for you that would be
most appropriate on some of our lighter moments that we have
had the past nine years. I hate to see you leave.
Hospital  President Fleming reviewed the hospital replacement project.
Plan emenrt He said that there was no disagreement among the Governor, the
Legislators, and the accrediting agencies of the need to replace




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


55


the old main hospital which is now obsolete. The two basic
problems are the size of the replacement unit and the cost.
The size of the unit is dependent on such factors as the proportions of tertiary care versus primary care; length of patient stay
in the hospital; percent of occupancy; future demographics, and
the market situation. Another factor to be considered is that
University Hospital is an educational facility, therefore, a significant amount of space is required to provide clinical programs
for the health science schools. Professional studies recently completed will assist in determining the actual size hospital to be
constructed.
Inflation has escalated the original estimated cost of construction of $140 million to $276 million by 1983. A solution to this
problem must be resolved before final plans on the type and size
of the structure can be determined.
Because health care is costly, the State and Federal Governments have placed substantial restrictions on health care facilities.
The State of Michigan Legislature recently passed a law placing
a moratorium on hospital construction costs if a notice of intent
has not been submitted by early October. Since there will not
be a meeting of the Board of Regents before that time, it is
important that the recommendation, as it appears in the agenda,
be approved at this meeting. The project will not be reviewed
unless it has the initial approval of the Regents.
Following discussion, Regent Laro moved to authorize the
University to file a notice of intent with the State of Michigan
to apply for a Certificate of Need for the hospital replacement
and to otherwise approve the other elements of the project outlined in the September report. Regent Dunn seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Mr. Larry Tolley and Mr. Bill Johnston, President and Vice- Family Housing
President of Rackham Student Government respectively, stated  Rates
that they had formed an ad hoc committee to study the housing
budget which had been provided by the Housing Office. After
careful study, the committee felt that there were excessive costs
in certain areas, therefore, were recommending a 7.9% increase
in family rates retroactive to July 1 at which time a regentally
approved 13% increase took effect.
Mr. Robert Hughes, Director of University Housing, commented that a survey by a consulting firm engaged by the Housing
Office had recommended a greater increase than that proposed
last February by Housing. Renovations and utilities will cost
more than estimated by the ad hoc committee. The whole housing
system is based on the fact that one generation of students pays
for improvements and new facilities for the next generation.




56


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


Public Comments


The Regents felt that the discrepancies in the data of the
Housing Office and the Ad Hoc Committee warranted further
review. Therefore, more information will be presented to the
Regents in October.
The Regents then heard comments from Mike Synk, Michael
O'Connor, Gina Tonge, Tom Clinton, and Scott Reit concerning
the dining hall consolidation. Associate Dean Richard W. Morshead, UM-Dearborn, spoke on University administrative organization, and Mitchell Kaminski spoke on Medical School tuition
rates.
President Fleming then announced that there would not be
a meeting at 8:00 P.M. The financial aid report would be discussed
on Friday.
The meeting was adjourned.


FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1978
The Regents reconvened at 8:30 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Brown, Dunn, Laro,
Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors Goodall and
Moran and Vice-Presidents Shapiro, Brinkerhoff, Radock, Overberger, Johnson and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present. Regent Baker was absent.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of July 27 and 28, 1978 were
approved with certain specified changes.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, temporary investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. He also filed an
annual report on the operations of the University disability plan.
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on University
Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Gifts   Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following
sources. They were accepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


57


American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the
American Cancer Society funds..........................$ 18,710.00
American Iron & Steel Institute, Washington, D.C.; for the
American Iron & Steel Institute funds.................... 19,850.00
American Medical Association, Education and Research Foundation, Chicago, Illinois; for the American Medical Association-Education and Research Foundation fund........ 12,788.51
Frank E. Ammerman Estate; for the Frank E. Ammerman
Paleontology  fund......................................  24,507.59
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis Foundation  funds.........................................  5,833.33
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the
Michigan Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds............. 14,999.96
Babcock and Wilcox Company, New York, New York; for the
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Computer Laboratory fund............................................  10,000.00
Bechtel Power Corporation, San Francisco, California; for the
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........  7,500.00
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso; for the Clements Library
Associates fund.......................................  5,000.00
Bush Foundation, Saint Paul, Minnesota; for the Bush Foundation-Stevenson fund....................................  65,574.00
Carnegie Foundation, New York, New York; for the Carnegie
Foundation-Advancement of Teaching fund..............  8,552.00
Charter Oil Company, Jacksonville, Florida; for the President
Gerald R. Ford Library fund........................... 10,000.00
Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, New York, New York; for
the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation-Lauffer fund...... 245,900.00
Commonwealth Fund, New York, New York; for the Commonwealth-Bernstein  fund..................................  19,980.00
Deere and Company, Moline, Illinois; for the Various Industrial
Sponsors-Colwell fund.................................. 10,000.00
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit; for the following funds:
Business Administration Special fund....................  495.00
Detroit Edison-Power Systems Fellowships fund..........  4,500.00
Vital M argin  fund......................................  200.00
Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship Fund, Birmingham; for the following funds:
Athletic  Scholarships fund...............................  100.00
Detroit University of Michigan Club fund................  5,000.00
Charles B. DeVlieg Foundation, Royal Oak; for the DeVlieg
Fellowship and Scholarship fund......................... 17,000.00
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor, for the Earhart FoundationNess  fund.............................................  5,000.00
Ford Foundation, New York, New York; for the Ford Foundation  funds...........................................  580,977.01
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn; for the following funds:
Alumnae Council Birthday Greeting fund................    50.00
Athletic  Scholarships  fund..............................  725.00
Business  School  fund..................................  50.00
Center for Continuing Education of Women-Student Financial  Aid   fund.........................................  5,000.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..........  65.00
Engineering Building Gifts fund........................  100.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........   295.00
Law   School  fund......................................  100.00
Law School-Law Library Building fund..................   100.00
M useum   of  Art  fund...................................  45.00
Radrick Farms Golf Course fund.......................    200.00




58


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


Residential College fund................................  100.00
University Musical Society fund.........................  350.00
Vital  M argin  fund.....................................  1,179.50
W UOM    fund......................................     25.00
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for the following funds:
Cardiovascular Division of Internal Medicine fund.........  25.00
Industrial and Operations Engineering-Computer Graphics
fund..................................................  10,000.00
Gerber Products Company, Fremont; for the Gerber Products
Pediatrics Fellowship fund..............................  5,000.00
Grand Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star of Michigan, Flint;
for the Eastern Star Cardiology fund....................  9,300.00
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York; for the
Grant Foundation-Fraiberg fund........................  24,339.00
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, Washington, D.C.; for
the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety-Melvin fund   33,240.00
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey; for
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation funds................ 191,985.00
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek; for the following funds:
Leukaphoresis Program-Equipment fund.................   12,000.00
W. K. Kellogg-Griffith fund......................       97,592.00
Kendall Company, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts; for the Richard
C. Schneider Neurosurgical fund.........................  5,000.00
Kenny-Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Detroit; for the
Kenny Foundation-Physical Medicine fund............... 25,071.04
Charles F. Kettering Foundation, Denver, Colorado; for the
Charles F. Kettering Foundation-Gates fund..............  5,500.00
Jacob Levin Estate; for the Jacob Levin fund.................  5,000.00
Little Caesar Enterprises, Inc., Farmington Hills; for the Dearborn Campus Little Caesar Enterprises fund.............. 10,000.00
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the
Henry Luce Foundation funds.......................... 31,000.00
Mallery Charitable Trust, for the University of Michigan-Flint
Area  Student Aid  fund.................................  10,000.00
Geraldine F. Masters Estate, for the following funds:
Geraldine F. Masters-Arthritis Research fund........... 18,249.82
Geraldine F. Masters-Cancer Research fund............. 18,249.82
Geraldine F. Masters-Student Loan fund................. 18,249.82
Vital  M argin  fund.....................................  18,249.81
McGregor Fund, for the following funds:
Clements Library Associates fund........................ 25,000.00
Medical Center Library fund............................ 20,000.00
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the United States,
Inc., Detroit; for the Highway Safety Research Institute
fund..................................................  310,000.00
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint; for the following funds:
Charles S. Mott Foundation-Runcie fund................   6,000.00
Flint Campus Development fund........................ 75,000.00
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., New York,
New York; for the Muscular Dystrophy Association-Faulkner
fund..................................................  22,000.00
National Foundation, White Plains, New York, New York; for
the National Foundation March of Dimes-Wilson fund....   9,200.00
Parke-Davis and Company, Detroit; for the Psychopharmacology
Research  fund.........................................  9,000.00
Eugene B. Power Trust; for the School of Music-Dean's Discretionary   fund........................................  5,000.00
Abbie Norman Prince Trust; for the President Gerald R. Ford
Library   fund..........................................  5,000.00




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


59


Procter and Gamble Paper Products Company, Cheboygan; for
the Procter and Gamble Paper Products fund.............  8,440.00
Mrs. Myrtle H. Rhodes, Santa Monica, California; for the Myrtle
H. Rhodes Fund, to participate in The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income fund.........................   10,000.00
Frank L. Riordan Estate; for the University General-Student
Loan fund............................................   32,251.20
Rockefeller Brothers Fund, Inc., New York, New York; for the
Rockefeller Brothers-Selection Management of Natural Areas
for Environmental Monitoring fund.....................  40,000.00
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York; for Rockefeller
Foundation funds.....................................  33,590.18
Damon Runyon-Walter Winchell Cancer Fund, Inc., for the following Damon Runyon-Walter Winchell Cancer funds.... 30,000.00
Soil & Health Foundation, Emmaus, Pennsylvania; for the Soil &
Health Foundation-Tsai fund............................  10,150.00
Rush Taggart Fund, New York, New York; for the Kelsey
Museum Associates fund................................   6,000.00
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc.,
New York, New York; for the United Cerebral Palsy-Gilman
fund.......................................................  10,890.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for the following accounts:
Clements Library Associates fund........................  100.00
Glenn W. Kindt Neurosurgical fund......................  3,000.00
Internal Medicine Contingency fund......................  400.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund....................  3,000.00
Upjohn Company-Diabetes Research fund...............      200.00
Upjohn Company-Fellowship in Diabetology fund........    8,500.00
Upjohn Company-Karsch fund..........................     9,700.00
Upjohn Company-Pharmacy-Ho fund....................      6,500.00
Upjohn Company-Proliferative Skin Disease Research fund   1,385.00
Upjohn Company-Photobiology fund....................     9,000.00
Vital M argin  fund......................................  75.00
Helen F. Weber Estate; for the Helen F. Weber funds........ 49,096.26
Irene C. Wellock Trust; for the Edward S. and Irene C. Wellock
Engineering  fund......................................  12,295.01
Rosina M. Wolfson Estate; for the Marguerite and Julian Wolfson-Law School fund..................................  13,071.07
Youth Foundation of America, Petoskey; for the Youth Foundation  of  America  funds..................................  22,000.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Albert F. Christian, Englewood, Florida. General Motors Corporation, common stock; for the Albert F. Christian Fund, to
participate in The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Incom e  fund............................................  17,887.50
Keith D. Jensen, Ann Arbor. American Television and Communications, common stock; divided as follows:
Clements Library Associates fund....................  100.00
Pending Designation fund...........................   8,850.00
Frank H. Roberts, San Francisco, California. Intel Corporation,
restricted common stock; for the Paul G. Kauper Professorship   fund.............................................  9,902.50
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Miss Harriet D. Adams, Albany, New York. Two Ceramic Markham vases, for the Museum of Art
Mrs. Patricia A. Black, Grand Blanc. A book entitled, Goya, by
Bernard Myers; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library




60              SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978
Buick Motor Division of General Motors Corporation, Flint. One
3-L5 Spectrum Analyzer Preamplifier, for the Department of
Electrical and Computer Engineering
James Walker Davis, Dallas, Texas. A book entitled, Money
Grows in Texas, edited by James W. Davis; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Digital Equipment Corporation, Marlborough, Massachusetts.
Five LSI-11 Microcomputer sets and two LSI-11 Paper tape
kits; for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Mr. and Mrs. Albert D. Early, New York, New York. A painting
entitled, "Point Judith Light," by William Trost Richards,
for the Museum of Art
Mrs. Virginia J. Ehrlicher, Pekin, Illinois. One copy of a thesis
"Thomas Mclntyre Cooley: A Calendar of His Papers, 1846 -1898," for the Law School Library
Ethyl Corporation, Ferndale. One Beckman DV Spectrophotometer, for The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus,
Department of Natural Sciences
Mrs. Violet M. Ford, Ann Arbor. Academic attire consisting of a
gown, cap and hood, for the President's Office
Mr. Francis J. Herr, III, Garden City. 100 feet of Copper Screening, for the Fair Lane Conference Center, The University of
Michigan-Dearborn Campus
Miss Sally Jean Jaeger, Flint. Volumes 1-3 of British Foreign
Policy, by Sir Llewellyn Woodward; for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Mr. Elmer A. Josephson, Hillsboro, Kansas. A book entitled,
Israel, God's Key to World Redemption, by Elmer A.
Josephson; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus
Library
Prof. Conrad P. Kottak, Ann Arbor. A book entitled, Anthropology-Exploration of Human Diversity, by Conrad P.
Kottak; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Dean John A. Larson, Grand Blanc. Three books: The Responsible Business man, and The Regulated Businessman, by John
Larson; and The Limits of American Capitalism, by Heilbroner-for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus
Library
Douglas W. Marshall, Ann Arbor. A book entitled,Mapping the
American Revolutionary War, by John Brian Harley; for the
Clements Library
Richard Mehlhorn, Ann Arbor. A Theorboed Guitar Lute, for the
Stearns Collection of Musical Instruments
Dr. Horace M. Miner, Ann Arbor. A book entitled, The City in
Modern Africa, by Frederick A. Praeger; for the Mischa
Titiev Library
Mrs. Margaret O'Leary Mundus, Ann Arbor. An ink painting
entitled, "Rooster," by Thomas McClure; for the School of
Art
David W. Palmer, Flint. 10 books, for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
B. P. Reiter, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. A book entitled, The
Saturday Night, Knife and Gun Club, by B. P. Reiter; for
The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Mrs. Malcom M. Scott, Connellsville, Pennsylvania. A book
entitled, The Myth of the Machine, by Lewis Mumford; for
the Law School




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


61


Ms. Hazel G. L. Smith, Ann Arbor. A silk tapestry entitled,
"K'O-ssu," late Ch'ing Dynasty; for the Museum of Art
Sycor Incorporated, Ann Arbor. A card reader and a high-speed
Centronix Printer, for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Miss Mina Louise Winslow, Ann Arbor. One print entitled,
"Mother and Child," by Alessandre Mastro Valerio, a wood
engraving for the Museum of Art
Mrs. Irving Wolfe, Nashville, Tennessee. An Indian Sitar, for the
Stearns Collection of Musical Instruments
Jack Vitek, Flint. Six books in the field of Psychology, for The
University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the
American Cancer Society funds.........................$  9,878.00
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for the American
Heart Association funds................................  21,505.00
Anonymous Donor: for the following funds:
History of Art-Medieval Studies fund...................  7,400.00
History of Art-Medieval Studies Endowment fund........   5,000.00
Boehringer-Ingelheim Limited, Ridgefield, Connecticut; for the
Internal Medicine-Pulmonary Disease Research fund......  7,494.00
Mrs. Irene K. Connors, Ann Arbor; for the Center for Western
European Studies-Yeats Festival fund....................  5,600.00
Detroit Edison Company, Detroit; for the Detroit Edison-Power
Systems  Fellowship  fund...............................  5,000.00
Marion Llewellyn Drake Estate; for the School of Dentistry
Special  fund...........................................  5,000.00
Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation, New York, New York;
for the Harry Frank Guggenheim Foundation-Singer fund    16,000.00
Mrs. Margaret C. Hopkins, Ridgewood, New Jersey; for the
Margaret C. Hopkins Fund, to participate in The University
of Michigan Donor Pooled Income fund.................. 30,000.00
Ward Allan Howe Estate; for the Ward Allan Howe fund.... 15,000.00
Martin D. Jaffe, M.D., Bay City; for the Sex Hormones and
Coronary Collateral Circulation fund.....................  9,000.00
Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Ann Arbor; for the following
Kidney Foundation accounts............................   6,001.86
Arthur D. Knapp Estate; for the Arthur D. Knapp fund....... 375.000.00
F. Joseph Lamb Company, Warren; for the Various Industrial
Sponsors-Colwell fund.........................           5,000.00
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; for the Eli Lilly
and Company-Parallel Studies fund...................... 22,832.00
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay
Medical  Research  fund.................................  18,500.29
Frank D. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay
Medical  Research  fund.................................  8,876.06
Merrell-National Laboratories, Cincinnati, Ohio; for the Pharmacology-Cardiovascular Research fund.................... 22,776.00
Michigan Heart Association, Southfield; for the Michigan Heart
Association  funds......................................  61,633.00
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the United States,
Inc., Detroit; for the Highway Safety Research Institute
fund..................................................  314,750.00
National Foundation, White Plains, New York; for the National
Foundation March of Dimes-Miesler fund................  6,000.00
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York; for
the National Multiple Sclerosis Society-Payne fund........ 35,980.58
Ole Evinrude Foundation, Waukegan, Illinois; for the Ole Evinrude Foundation Fellowship fund........................  5,000.00




62


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation, Toledo, Ohio; for the
following accounts:
Automotive Transportation Center fund.................  17,500.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund...................   3,000.00
Vital Margin fund......................................    25.00
Pennwalt Corporation, Pharmaceutical Division, Rochester, New
York; for the Anesthesia Research fund..................  5,000.00
Pennwalt Corporation, S. S. White Dental Health Products Division, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; for the Operative Dentistry Research-Charbeneau fund........................  5,475.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo; for the following funds:
Center for Continuing Education of Women-Student Financial Aid  fund..........................................  25.00
Medical Center Library fund............................  50,000.00
Maurice H. Seevers Memorial fund....................... 10,000.00
Upjohn Company-Voorhees fund........................ 25,000.00
Ada Belle Clark Welsh Estate; for the Ada Belle Clark Welsh
Scholarship  fund...................................  11,300.00
Whiting Foundation, Flint; for the following funds:
H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research fund................ 10,000.00
University of Michigan-Cancer Research Institute fund....  3,500.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Richard Earhart, Leland. Mobil Corporation, common stock; for
the Engineering Building Gifts fund.................... 30,343.75
George A. Heffernon, M.D., Sun City, Arizona. DeBeers Consolidated Mines Limited, American Depository shares; for the
Medical  School  fund...................................  5,000.00
Beahl T. Perrine, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Raytheon Company, common stock; for the Law School fund....................  10,100.00
Personnel Actions IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
Appointments        NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
L. Joseph Crafton, LL.B., Associate Professor of Business Administration,
UM-Dearborn, without tenure, for two academic years
William D. Ensminger, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, August 1, 1978
F. Gaynor Evans, Professor Emeritus, appointed as Investigator on Research,
Department of Industrial and Operations Engineering, May 1, 1978 to
April 30, 1979
Joseph J. Firebaugh, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College
of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, Fall Semester, 1978
James B. Griffin, Professor Emeritus, appointed as Senior Research Scientist
in the Museum of Anthropology, July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1979
Roger C. Loeb, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychology, UM-Dearborn,
without tenure
Thomas F. Lyons, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Business Administration,
UM-Dearborn, without tenure, for two academic years
Raymond Mosher, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, Fall Term 1978
and Winter Term and IIIA, 1979




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


63


Barbara B. Murray, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Business Administration,
without tenure, UM-Dearborn, for two academic years
Stanley A. Schwartz, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases and Associate Professor of Microbiology in the
Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                    Promotions, etc.
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
William W. Agresti, Associate Professor of Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn, also appointed Acting Chairman of the Department
of Industrial and Systems Engineering, September 1, 1978 to December 30, 1978
Peter H. Amann, Professor of History, appointed William E. Stirton Professor
of History, UM-Dearborn, for a five-year term
Rashid Bashshur, Professor of Medical Care Organization, appointed Acting
Chairman of the Department of Medical Care Organization, August 31,
1978
Alan W. Brass, from Administrator of Mott/Women's/Holden Hospitals, to
Associate Director for Operations, University Hospital
Richard Cornell, Professor of Biostatistics, reappointed Chairman of the
Department of Biostatistics, July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1983
Thomas J. DeKornfeld, Professor of Anesthesiology, also appointed Professor
of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Educations, without
tenure, July 1, 1978
Roger F. Hackett, Professor of History, appointed Acting Director of the
Center for Japanese Studies, July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1979
Wendel W. Heers, Professor of Art, appointed Acting Associate Dean, School
of Art, for a one-year term
Morton S. Hilbert, Professor and Chairman of the Department of Environmental and Industrial Health, also appointed Director of the Institute
of Environmental and Industrial Health, July 1, 1978 to August 31, 1981
Lee Katz, Associated Dean of Academic Affairs, UM-Dearborn, also appointed Associate Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn, for one year,
September 1, 1978 to August 31, 1979
Dee Morgan Kilpatrick, Professor of Social Work, reappointed Assistant
Dean of the School of Social Work, July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1979
Robert L. Kuczkowski, Professor of Chemistry, appointed Acting Chairman
of the Department of Chemistry, September 1, 1978 to June 30, 1979
T. Francis Ogilvie, Professor of Fluid Mechanics, reappointed Chairman of
the Department of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, July 1,
1978 to June 30, 1983
Robert E. Reed, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, appointed
Director, Inteflex Program
William W. Vasse, Professor of English, UM-Flint, appointed Chairman of
the English Department, UM-Flint, for a three-year term
The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence for            Leaves of Absence
Armand Lauffer, Professor of Social Work and Martin Stiles,
Professor of Chemistry.
The following committee appointments were approved:                 Committee
Appointments
School of Education Executive Committee
Professor Allen Menlo, for Fall Term, 1978, vice Professor Charles Lehmann,
on leave




64


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


University Press Executive Committee
Professor Jens Zorn, for a one-year term, September 1, 1978 to June 30,
1979, vice Professor Thomas Dunn, on leave
Professor Richard Bailey, for a three-year term, September 1, 1978 to
August 31, 1981, vice Professor Jens Zorn, term expired
Professor Kent Flannery, for a three-year term, September 1, 1978 to
August 31, 1981, vice Professor Vern Carroll, term expired
The University of Michigan-Dearborn, Citizens Advisory Committee
Reese Cleghorn, beginning immediately until December 31, 1980, vice George
Neavoll, resigned
Elizabeth P. Howe, for a three-year term ending December 1981, vice Eugene
Kuthy, term expired
Personnel Reports V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
Appointments        NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Preben K. Alsholm, Ph.D., Mathematics, UM-Dearborn
Robert A. Bender, Ph.D., Division of Biological Sciences
Kathleen U. Boggs, M.S.N., Nursing
Michael J. Brabec, Ph.D., Environmental and Industrial Health
Joan E. Ceglarek, M.P.H., Nursing
Chia-hao Chang, Ph.D., Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Thomas Dohm Charbeneau, M.S.D., Dentistry, July 1, 1978
Inge B. Corless, Ph.D., Nursing, August 1, 1978
Ronald DeLoss Drobney, Ph.D., Natural Resources, July 1, 1978
Roger R. Dube, Ph.D., Physics, UM-Dearborn
Carol Maureen Easley, A.M., Nursing
Cheryl Eileen Easley, A.M., Nursing
Linda E. Fisher, Ph.D., Biology, UM-Dearborn
Thomas Holmes Flory, Ph.D., History
Robert Dale Fogel, Ph.D., Botany, also appointed Assistant Curator of Fungi
Signorino Galvagno, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering
Joan O. Goldstein, Ed.D., Nursing, June 1, 1978
Sandor Goodhart, Ph.D., English Language and Literature
Erdogan Gulari, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering
Raymond J. Hutchinson, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
July 16, 1978
Richard Evan Isaacson, Ph.D., Epidemiology, July 1, 1978
Charles Jones, Ph.D., Mathematics, UM-Dearborn
James Wayne Jones, Ph.D., Materials and Metallurgical Engineering
David Freeman Keren, M.D., Pathology, July 1, 1978
Joanne Leonard, M.F.A., Art
Harold Young McCulloch, Jr., Ph.D., Greek and Latin, Classical Studies
Carolyn M. Mills, Ph.D., Psychology, UM-Dearborn
Maureen T. Neal, M.S.N., Nursing
Nigel Richard Thomas Pashley, M.B., B.S. (London), Otorhinolaryngology,
July 1, 1978
George David Joseph Phillies, D.Sc., Chemistry
Hiroko Sato Pijanowski, M.F.A., Art
Loren K. Platzman, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


65


William Rakowski, Ph.D., Community Health Programs
Beverly J. Rathcke, Ph.D., Biological Sciences
Gary John Rentschler, Ph.D., Education and Speech Pathology, also appointed Assistant Director of Speech and Hearing Camp, July 1, 1978
Lawrence S. Root, M.S.S., Social Work
Christopher Chapman Rouse, D.M.A., Music
Harry E. Schneiter, Jr., M.D., Family Practice, July 1, 1978
Howard Paul Segal, Ph.D., Humanities, Engineering
Curtis Stokes, Ph.D., Political Science, UM-Dearborn
Carolyn Jan Swearingen, Ph.D., Humanities, Engineering
Vagar Hussain Syed, Ph.D., Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Timothy P. White, Ph.D., Physical Education
Joanne Antoinette Peebles Wilson, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1978
Mohamed Y. Zarrugh, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, June 15, 1978
Kenneth Stuart Zuckerman, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1978
Instructor
Peter Ash, M.D., Psychiatry, July 1, 1978
James S. Bower, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1978
George D. Cavender, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, July 1,
1978
Joyce Kathryn Conley, Ph.D., Music
David L. Coulter, M.D., Neurology, Pediatrics and Communicable Disease,
July 1, 1978
Chandra M. Edwin, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Disease, July 1,
1978
Margaret Elizabeth Gainer, M.S., Nursing
Eric T. Jones, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1978
Charles Asa Koller, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1978
Marcia K. Liepman, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1978
Shirley A. McCormick, M.D., Family Practice, July 1, 1978
Barry M. Miller, M.D., Psychiatry, July 1, 1978
Uma A. Pandit, M.B.B.S., Anesthesiology, July 1, 1978
James Frederick Peggs, M.D., Family Practice, August 1, 1978
James E. Pugh, Jr., M.D., Neurology, July 1, 1978
Peter Albert Railton, A.B., Philosophy
Mettupalayam M. Rajendran, M.B.B.S., Radiology, July 1, 1978
Douglas Rees Robbins, M.D., Psychiatry, July 1, 1978
Reed C. Shafer, M.D., Neurology, July 1, 1978
James J. Shields, M.D., Radiology, July 1, 1978
Gerald B. Zelenock, M.D., Surgery-General, July 1, 1978
Lecturer
Carl Alan Batlin, M.B.A., Finance
Patrick J. Blackburn, B.S., Physical Education
Kristina Branch, M.F.A., Applied Arts, UM-Dearborn
Robert J. Bykowski, M.P.H., Social Work, July 1, 1978
Clarence T. Callahan, M.B.A., Management, UM-Dearborn
Ralph M. Cellars, Ph.D., Mathematics, UM-Dearborn
Kenneth Lim Chung, D.D.S., M.P.H., Dental Public Health
Kevin P. Corley, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1978
Joel L. Cressman, M.F.A., Residential College
Alan Creutz, A.B., History, UM-Dearborn
Steven Mark Donn, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1,
1978
Christopher Flynn, Dance, School of Music
Thomas Michael Gottlieb, M.A., Political Science




66


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


Michael B. Hannum, M.F.A., Residential College
David Sanford Hirsch, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1,
1978
Margret H. Hoft, Ph.D., Arts, Sciences and Letters, UM-Dearborn
Ludvik Janos, Ph.D., Mathematics, June 1, 1978
Frederick P. Lee, M.A., Political Science
Robert Dale Lefever, Ph.D., Family Practice, July 1, 1978
Gladys G. Leithauser, Ph.D., Rhetoric and English Composition, UMDearborn
Eliana M. Loveluck, M.A., Residential College
Martha A. McCravey, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, July 1,
1978
Janet H. Michelena, M.A., Residential College
Kenneth R. Mikolowski, B.A., Residential College
Donald R.Miller, M.S., Natural Sciences, UM-Dearborn
Miroslav Nincio, Ph.D., Political Science
William J. Phillips, M.Ed., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Sharon Elaine Schwindt, M.P.H., Dental Public Health
John L. Selfridge, Ph.D., Mathematics, June 1, 1978
Lori Ann Simon, M.P.H., Dental Public Health
Marjorie Harth Swain, M.M.P., History of Art, also appointed Associate
Chairman of the Museum Practice Program, July 1, 1978
Melanie R. Wallendorf, M.A., Marketing
Martin W. Walsh, Ph.D., Residential College
Leon Wyszewianski, M.H.A., Medical Care Organizaiton, July 1, 1978
Visiting Professor
Israel Agranat, Ph.D., Chemistry
Vladimir N. Bandera, Ph.D., Economics, UM-Flint, June 25, 1978
Giorgio Freddi, Ph.D., Political Science
Walter J. Gensler, Ph.D., Chemistry
Herbert A. Hollister, Ph.D., Mathematics, July 1, 1978
Lawrence G. Sager, LL.B., Law, July 11, 1978
Mario Torelli, Laurea in lettere, Classical Archaeology
Veronica Sylvia Tyler, B.Mus., Music
Joshua Zak, D.Sc., Physics
Visiting Associate Professor
William Philip McLauchlan, Ph.D., J.D., Political Science
Christopher Arthur Bruce Peacocke, D.Phil., Philosophy
William B. Rolnick, Ph.D., Physics, UM-Dearborn, July 1, 1978
Jose dos Santos, Jr., D.D.S., Dentistry, July 1, 1978
Visiting Assistant Professor
Umar Faruq Abd-Allah, M.A., Near Eastern Studies, July 1, 1978
Mary Louise Fellows, J.D., Law, August 30, 1978
Susan Blackall Hansen, Ph.D., Political Science
Thomas Joseph Mangner, Ph.D., Medicinal and Pharmaceutical Chemistry
Donald Spivey, Ph.D., History
Visiting Instructor
Li-Chih Wu, M.D., Surgery-Urology, June 1, 1978
Visiting Lecturer
Douglas Roy Goering, M.F.A., Art, July 1, 1978
Wesley D. Jacobs, Music




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


67


Michael R. Moody, B.A., Music, July 9, 1978
Giannine D. Perigo, M.A., Education
Gary Wolkstein, M.M., Music, June 24, 1978
Adjunct Professor
Francis Albert Kornegay, Ph.D., Education
John Douglas Peine, Ph.D., Outdoor Recreation, January 1, 1978
Adjunct Associate Professor
Leonard R. Lamberson, Ph.D., Industrial and Systems Engineering, UMDearborn, July 1, 1978
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Daniel L. VanDyke, Ph.D., Pediatric Genetics, July 1, 1978
Adjunct Lecturer
Bruno Andrade, M.F.A., Art, July 1, 1978
Orrie David Jones, B.S., Computer Science, UM-Flint, June 25, 1978
Bernard J. Wright, M.A., Political Science, UM-Flint, June 25, 1978
Clinical Assistant Professor
Carlos Grodsinsky, M.D., Surgery-General, July 1, 1978
Clinical Instructor
James Chandler Gruenberg, M.D., Surgery-General, July 1, 1978
Peter Andras Haas, M.D., Surgery-General, July 1, 1978
Harold I. Juran, M.D., Dermatology
Luke Yu Shik Kim, M.D., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, August 1,
1978
Samuel Paul Nesbit, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 21, 1978
Rodney Peter Paladino, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 21, 1978
Mridula Reveri, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Disease, July 1, 1978
Pamela Diane Slade, B.S., Dental Hygiene
Ronald Carey Stewart, D.D.S., Dentistry
Ann Marie Walcott, D.S.S., Dentistry, August 21, 1978
Wayne Eugene Walcott, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 21, 1978
Ned Zlatkin Winkelman, M.D., Surgery-Plastic, July 1, 1978
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF Promotions
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Linda C. Allen, from Lecturer to Instructor in Management, UM-Flint
Amin M. Almuti, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Adjunct Associate
Professor of Civil Engineering
David G. Bjoraker, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology,
July 1, 1978
Robert C. Borer, Jr., from Assistant Professor to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Disease
Donald I. Bosshardt, from Visiting Lecturer to Lecturer in Finance
Eugene J. Buatti, from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of
Dentistry
Howard B. Calder, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Education and
Audiology, July 1, 1978
Howard D. Cameron, Professor of Greek, and Latin, with tenure, and Chairman of Classical Studies, also appointed Curator in Museum of Zoology
Frederic E. Eckhauser, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Surgery,
July 1, 1978




68


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


Helen L. Erickson, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Errol E. Erlandson, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of SurgeryGeneral, July 1, 1978
Paul S. Foote, from Lecturer to Instructor in Management, UM-Flint
Thomas R. Gebeck, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate
Professor of Dentistry
Harvey E. Hamburgh, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Art History,
UM-Dearborn
Susan F. Harding, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Anthropology,
Residential College
Charles G. Hudson, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Environmental
and Industrial Health
Mary L. Hunter, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Martin E. Hurwitz, from Instructor to Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and
Communicable Disease, July 1, 1978
Edward G. Kane, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate
Professor of Dentistry
Paul R. Lichter, Professor of Ophthalmology, also appointed Assistant Chairman of Department of Ophthalmology
Sue A. Marr, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint
Joe E. O'Neal, from Adjunct Associate Professor to Adjunct Professor of
Civil Engineering
Howard G. Rush, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Laboratory
Animal Medicine
Tessie M. Sharp, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor of
Social Work, UM-Flint
Joseph V. Tyler, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Spanish, UMFlint
Philip C. Warren, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate
Professor of Dentistry
Kenneth L. Watkin, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor
of Education and Speech Science, July 1, 1978
Charles T. Weber, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor
of Economics, UM-Flint
Ellen R. Weckler, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Music
David M. Weine, from Clinical Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate
Professor of Dentistry
Ronald E. White, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry
Hans P. Witzky, from Clinical Associate Professor to Clinical Professor of
Dentistry
Maxine Baca Zinn, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Sociology and
Assistant Professor of Chicano Studies, UM-Flint
Resignations     TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective August 31, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Professor
William D. Becher, Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1978
Paul D. Carrington, Law, May 31, 1978
David L. Gutmann, Psychology
Arthur G. Johnson, Microbiology, August 10, 1978
Donald B. Macurda, Jr., Geology and Mineralogy, Museum of Paleontology
Associate Professor
Harold Burr, Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1978
Elisa A. Diehl, Nursing
Robert J. Hemstead, Business Administration, May 31, 1978




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


69


Robert M. SegaI, Social Work, August 11, 1978
David A. Sonstegard, Applied Mechanics and Engineering Science and
Applied Mechanics in Surgery, May 31, 1978
Assistant Professor
James O. Bailey, Jr., Dentistry, August 22, 1978
Robert N. Cahn, Physics, July 31, 1978
Patrick J. Creaven, Dentistry, July 31, 1978
William J. Davis, Dentistry, June 30, 1978
Susan M. Flierl, Speech, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1978
Lawrence H. Hecker, Environmental and Industrial Health, July 31, 1978
Donald T. Laird, Political Science, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1978
Allen R. McMurray, Music, Education, August 20, 1978
Charles G. Niles, Dentistry
Timothy A. O'Shea, Chemistry, UM-Dearborn, June 30, 1978
Harry G. Rittenhouse, Biological Chemistry, July 15, 1978
Ronald H. Russo, Surgery, July 31, 1978
Richard S. Shannon, III, Classical Studies, May 31, 1978
John D. Vitek, Geography, UM-Flint, June 24, 1978
Robert W. Waterman, Mathematics, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1978
Lorraine M. Wilson, Nursing, May 31, 1978
Instructor
Lance L. Altenau, Surgery, June 30, 1978
Jerald T. Dade, Psychology
Katherine J. Krueger, Nursing, August 28, 1978
Surendra M. Kumar, Anesthesiology, June 30, 1978
Preston R. Lotz, Radiology, August 4, 1978
Terri W. Malolepsy, Theatre, UM-Flint, June 24, 1978
Frances H. Vaughn, Nursing, May 31, 1978
Jorge E. Yofre, Anesthesiology, June 30, 1978
Robert S. Wunder, Psychology, UM-Dearborn, April 30, 1978
Lecturer
Charles M. Gilson, Dentistry, April 30, 1978
Alan T. Koski, Astronomy
Lillian Mayweather, Nursing, May 31, 1978
Will M. Thompson, Jr., Dentistry, July 31, 1978
Clinical Associate Professor
Henry E. Ebel, Dentistry, May 31, 1978
C. Randolph Greschaw, Dentistry
Clinical Instructor
Patrick Blahut, Dentistry
Mary Ann Calcott, Dentistry, July 31, 1978
Ann B. Martin, Dentistry, May 31, 1978
Louis G. B. Mes, Surgery, June 30, 1978
Sandra Lee Raber, Dentistry, May 31, 1978
Carole S. Souers, Dentistry
Gustave E. Vandesteen, Dentistry, August 21, 1978
Gregory J. Zann, Dentistry, July 31, 1978
Retirement
Barbara I. McKinley, Lecturer, English Language Institute, June 30, 1978




70


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


Deceased
Robert H. High, Clinical Professor, Pediatrics and Communicable Disease,
June 13, 1978
Leaves of Absence  Six off-campus assignments, eighty-six sabbatical leaves, two
changes in sabbatical leaves previously granted, forty-seven leaves
of absence without salary, two medical leaves, and fifteen retirement furloughs were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of eight faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.
S. J. Axelrod   SOLOMON J. AXELROD, M.D., M.P.H., Professor of Medical Care
Retirement Organization has retired from active faculty status as of August 31, 1978,
after a distinguished career as scholar and teacher in the field of Medical
Care.
Dr. Axelrod's undergraduate studies were completed at Dartmouth
College; he then entered Medical School at Jefferson Medical College and
received his M.D. degree in 1938. After an internship at Philadelphia General
Hospital and a fellowship at the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. Axelrod
began a career in Public Health.
From 1941 through 1943, Dr. Axelrod served as Medical Officer in the
Tennessee State Department of Health. Between 1943 and 1949, he was a
commissioned officer in the United States Public Health Service serving as
Venereal Disease Control Officer, Chief Medical Officer in the War Food
Administration, and later, as Rural Health Consultant.
Following this employment, Dr. Axelrod attended The University of
Michigan School of Public Health where he earned his M.P.H. degree in
1949. Upon graduation, Dr. Axelrod joined the School of Public Health
faculty as a Resident Lecturer. He was appointed Associate Professor in 1952
and promoted to Professor in 1955. From 1959 to 1970, he served both as
Director of the Bureau of Health Economics, and, after it was established
in 1965, Chairman of the Department of Medical Care Organization.
After his resignation as Chairman of the Department, Dr. Axelrod
continued as a teaching member of the Department. He carried the major
responsibility for the basic course in Medical Care Organization which forms
a part of the core curriculum of the School's M.H.S.A. program.
Dr. Axelrod was awarded a Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award
by the University in 1974 in recognition of his accomplishments as a teacher
and scholar and of the significant influence he has exerted in the health
care field on a national level. His role in the University is exemplified by his
having served on the search committee for the current Presiden of the
University and for the current Dean of the School of Public Health.
Dr. Axelrod's contribution to the field of Medical Care Organization and
the esteem with which he is held by colleagues were recognized at the
Annual Meeting of the American Public Health Association in 1976 when the
Medical Care Section of that organization sponsored "A Night with Sy
Axelrod" and in 1977 when the Black Caucus of Health Workers honored
Dr. Axelrod at their annual awards dinner.
Dr. Axelrod's extensive participation in activities directed to national
needs and policy has not meant a lack of concern with local issues, and he
has had a long term interest in the health services in the City of Detroit
Dr. Axelrod has been an advisor to both the prior and present Mayor; he
has been a consultant to a variety of agencies and institutions concerned




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


71


with health services and has made an outstanding contribution to the
improvement of health services for the residents of Detroit.
While Dr. Axelrod is noted for a variety of achievements, his commitment and contribution to the education of persons who will be responsible
for the organization, financing and evaluation of health services in the United
States is preeminent. The education of health personnel committed to a high
quality, accessible health care system who have the ability to direct the
system to this end, has been the dominant theme in his career.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Medical Care
Organization.
CHARLES     GARDNER     CHILD, III, M.D., Professor of Surgery,     C. G. Child, III
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 1978, after a most productive  Retirement
career in teaching, research, patient care and administration.
Dr. Child was born February 1, 1908, in New York City. He did his
undergraduate work at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut and
received his A.B. degree in 1930. He earned his M.D. degree at Cornell
University Medical College, New York, New York in 1934 and served his
internship, assistant residency, and residency at the New York Hospital
in New York City from 1936 through 1942.
His academic appointments began with the title of Instructor at Cornell
University Medical College, and he progressed through the ranks to Associate
Profesor by 1947. In 1953 he accepted the appointment of Professor and
Chairman of the Department of Surgery, Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts. There he remained until he came to Michigan
in 1959. Dr. Child was Chairman of the Department of Surgery, The University of Michigan, from 1959 until a period just prior to his retirement.
At Michigan he was the project director of a 13-year-long, federally
sponsored research grant in support of his work on portal hypertension.
He is recognized as a world authority on portal hypertension and produced
three books on the subject: Hepatic Circulation and Portal Hypertension
(1954); The Liver and Portal Hypertension (1964); and Portal Hypertension as Seen by Seventeen Authorities (1974). He has written more than
140 articles and chapters in books on a variety of surgical subjects. From
1960 to 1966 he was Editor of The Journal of Surgical Research.
During his long and distinguished career, Dr. Child maintained membership in over 30 professional societies. He was admitted as a Fellow of the
American College of Surgeons in 1948 and was a charter member of the
Institute of Medicine, the National Academy of Sciences. He served as
Chairman of the Committee on Admissions, the Society of Clinical Surgery
(1968-69); Chairman of the Policy Committee of the National Research
Council's Study of Differences in Postoperative Mortality (1970); Chairman
of the subcommittee on the Quality of Surgical Care of the American
Surgical Association and American College of Surgeons (1970); and Chairman of the American Board of Surgery (1964-65).
In 1972 Dr. Child was honored with a Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award at The University of Michigan. He received a Distinguished
Faculty Award from Cornell Univesrsity in 1974.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician and health educator
for his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Surgery.
MS. ELIZABETH M. DUSSEAU, Assistant Professor of Epidemiology,      E. MI. Dusseau
has retired from active faculty status as of August 31, 1978, after a long  Retirement
and productive career in public health.
A native of Michigan, Professor Dusseau was born in Monroe on
April 11, 1911. She attended The University of Michigan concentrating on
bacteriology and was awarded an A.B. in 1933. Her first position after gradu



72


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


ation was as a case worker with the Monroe County Emergency Relief
Administration. She continued in that position until 1937 when she was
hired as a laboratory technician at St. Joseph Mercy Hospital in Monroe.
In 1940, she returned to The University of Michigan to work on an M.S.P.H.
degree in public health laboratory practice. In 1942 when she completed her
degree, she joined Drs. Lowell T. Coggeshall and Richard J. Porter in the
new U-M School of Public Health as a research assistant working on their
studies of malaria. In 1943, she was promoted to Chief Technician under
Dr. Porter.
Over the years, Ms. Dusseau played a progressively more important role
in Dr. Porter's research and in assisting in the teaching of parasitology. Her
participation in the teaching of the laboratory course in parasitology led to
her appointment as an Instructor in Epidemiology in 1966. By 1973, when
she was promoted to Assistant Professor, she had assumed virtually complete
responsibility for the teaching of Epidemiology 531. She was a very skillful
and conscientious teacher. Her work was technically sound and always well
received by students. In addition to formal classroom teaching, she provided
extensive consultation to doctoral students in immunology and parasitology.
As Dr. Porter's collaborator in his research on parasitology and immunology, Professor Dusseau was co-author of many of his scientific
publications. She also engaged in essentially independent research on evidence
of parasites in fossilized fecal specimens from caves and in material from
remote Indian populations in South America. She provided considerable
service to units of the Medical Center by assisting in the laboratory diagnosis
of parasitic infections.
Professor Dusseau was active in many professional organizations including Women of the Faculty and the Women's Research Club. Her interest
led to the appointment of an Affirmative Action for Women Committee in
the Department of Epidemiology well before a similar committee on a
School-wide basis was formed. She served as Chairperson of the Department's committee.
In recognition of a long and able career as a devoted teacher and
researcher in public health, the Regents designate Elizabeth M. Dusseau as
Assistant Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology.
W. W. Hunter      WOODROW W. HUNTER, Professor of Education, retired from active
Retirement faculty status at The University of Michigan on August 31, 1978.
Professor Hunter has been a member of the University community for
forty-five years, first as a student and later as a distinguished faculty member
and administrator. Having previously earned the A.B. and M.A. degrees here,
he returned to the campus in 1946 after miltiary service in World War II
to become a research assistant in the Institute for Human Adjustment. It
was at that time that he launched his remarkable career in the then emerging
field of social gerontology.
Although that career has taken him to distant points and has brought
him international renown, it is on this campus that his superb talents as a
teacher, researcher, and innovator have been most evident.
Professor Hunter's particular interest has been preretirement education
although he has made major contributions in many aspects of gerontology.
As a pioneer and persistent pacesetter in this area, as well as committed
teacher, trainer, and researcher, he has brought great distinction to this
University. Professor Hunter originated and taught graduate studies in
preretirement education and a seminar in applied research and teaching in
aging. He also developed the University-wide preretirement counseling programs which today give every faculty and staff member an opportunity
to address personally the issues crucial to successful retirement.
Woodrow Hunter has been a leader in state, national, and international
professional societies. He is a fellow of the Section on Psychological and




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


73


Social Sciences of the Gerontological Society, and a member of the Executive
Committee of the Section on Aging of the Adult Education Association of
the USA. He has been awarded the Harry J. Kelly Award for Meritorious
service to Michigan's older people.
As Director of the Program in Preretirement Education for the Institute
of Gerontology, Professor Hunter has headed numerous federally-funded
research and training projects, has provided consultation and training
enabling many other institutions of higher education to develop programs
in aging, and has given expert guidance to state and area planning agencies,
labor unions, industries, public schools, and a wide variety of organizations.
Abroad, he has served as consultant to the governments of Belgium and
Great Britain, led the first National Conference in Retirement Educatioin
in Dublin, Ireland, and made presentations at the invitation of the International Center for Social Gerontology. He played a leading role in the
1971 White House Conference on Aging, and is presently serving on the
U.S. Department of Labor Expert Committee on Aging.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his outstanding
service to The University of Michigan, the field of gerontology, and the
broader community by naming him Professor Emeritus of Education.
LILLIAN   G. OSTRAND, Professor of Public Health Nursing in the      L. G. Ostrand
Department of Community Health Programs, has retired from active faculty  Retirement
status as of August 31, 1978, after a most productive career as a teacher and
public health nursing adviser and consultant.
A native of Crystal Falls in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, Professor
Ostrand received her Diploma in Nursing from Augustana Hospital in
Chicago in 1937 and immediately entered clinical nursing practice, serving
first as a staff nurse, then as assistant supervisor and as an operating room
supervisor in World War II with the Army Nurse Corps. Following World
War II she began her career as a public health nurse with the Washtenaw
County Health Department while she completed her work for the degree
of Bachelor of Science in Public Health Nursing from this University. In the
early 1950's she was a supervising public health nurse with the Pittsburgh
Department of Public Health and later the assistant chief in education for
that same department. While there she also served as an instructor at
Duquesne University. She returned to Ann Arbor and the School of Public
Health in 1955 where she served as a resident lecturer while completing her
studies for the degree of Master of Public Health which she received in 1957.
She was named Associate Professor of Public Health Nursing in 1969, Program Director of Public Health Nursing in 1973, and Professor of Public
Health Nursing in 1974.
Throughout her career she has been active in professional public health
nursing circles both as an offiicer of professional associations and as a consultant and advisor to many public health nursing agencies. Her publications
reflect her interests in the public health nursing aspects of chronic disease
control.
Her early years of direct patient contact, both in clinical and public
health nursing have been reflected in her continuing concern for patients as
people-whether teaching about them to public health nursing students or
in providing consultation about them to public health agencies.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher for her dedicated
service to The University of Michigan by naming her Professor Emeritus of
Public Health Nursing.
DR. FLOYD A. PEYTON, Professor of Dentistry, retired from active F. A. Peyton
faculty status as of February 28, 1970, after an illustrious career as a teacher  Retirement
and researcher in the School of Dentistry.
Born on February 2, 1905, Dr. Peyton earned the A.B. degree in chem



74


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


istry at Indiana University in 1928 and the M.S. in physical chemistry at
the Michigan College of Mining and Technology the following year. In 1933
he completed at this university the degree Sc.D in dental materials, as one
of the earliest graduates of the program.
In 1935 Dr. Peyton joined the faculty of the Department of Materials
Science as an instructor and in 1941 was promoted to the rank of Assistant
Professor. From 1945 to 1948 he taught on the faculty of the University of
Texas as Professor of Dental Physics. He returned to Michigan in 1948 as
Professor and Chairman of the Department of Materials Science (later to
become Dental Materials), a position he held until June 30, 1969.
As a teacher and researcher, Dr. Peyton has played a major role in the
development of the field of dental materials, both inside and outside the
university. He was instrumental in the development and expansion of the
department's graduate program in dental materials, which under his guidance
achieved the reputation as one of the most respected programs of its kind in
the world. Graduates of Michigan's program are leaders in the field, occupying prominent roles in similar departments of dental schools in this country
and abroad.
Dr. Peyton's contributions outside the University are equally noteworthy. He served as a visiting professor at San Carlos University in Guatemala in 1945, and as a Fulbright Lecturer in Alexandria, Egypt, in 1961, in
New Zealand in 1966, and in India in 1968. He was the first chairman of
the Dental Materials Group of the International Association of Dental Research, and in 1961 he received the prestigious Wilmar Souder Award for
outstanding and meritorious dental research. Since 1968 he has served as a
consultant to the Pan American Health Organization.
Respected and admired by colleagues and students alike, Dr. Peyton
has exerted a profound influence in his field as a teacher and dental researcher.
The Regents salute this distinguished scientist and educator for his
dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Dentistry.
R. J. Porter    DR. RICHARD J. PORTER, Professor of Protozoology, has retired
Retirement from active faculty status as of June 30, 1978, after thirty-seven years as a
teacher of parasitology and tropical diseases. Dr. Porter has the distinction
of having served longer on the School of Public Health faculty than any
other person.
Dr. Porter was born in Swampscott, Massachusetts on October 22, 1913.
He attended Harvard University for two years and then completed his
undergraduate training at the University of Virginia, receiving his B.A. from
that school in 1935 and his M.A. in 1936. He then spent five years at the
University of Chicago where he was awarded the Ph.D. degree in 1941.
Immediately thereafter, Dr. Porter joined the faculty of the University of
Michigan's School of Public Health which was then being established.
Dr. Porter's first appointment was as Instructor of Epidemiology. In
addition to teaching, he joined Dr. Lowell T. Coggeshall in research on
malaria which was then being supported by a defense contract from the
Office of Scientific Research and Development. When a separate Department
of Tropical Diseases was established in 1944, under the chairmanship of
Dr. Coggeshall, Dr. Porter was promoted to Assistant Professor of Protozoology. In 1947, when Dr. Coggeshall left the University, Tropical Diseases
was reunited with the Department of Epidemiology and Dr. Porter assumed
primary responsibiliy for teaching and research in parasitology and tropical
diseases. In that year, he was promoted to Associate Professor at Protozoology, and he became a full Professor in 1954. Over the years, the scope
of Dr. Porter's research interests broadened to include basic immunology
and the mechanics of antibody formation. Dr. Porter is the author of
numerous scientific publications.
In 1970, Dr. Porter was appointed to the newly created position of




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


75


Assistant Dean for Curriculum for the School of Public Health and assumed
primary responsibility for reorganizing and supervising the teaching of the
School's core curriculum. Dr. Porter had always been an imaginative and
effective teacher, and he had extended his influence beyond his own classrooms by serving as a member or Chairman of committees responsible for
various phases of the School's curriculum. Because of his background and
personal attributes, he was well qualified to fill this new post. He served as
Assistant Dean until 1976 when he began a program of phased retirement.
In addition to teaching and research, Dr. Porter made significant contributions by serving on a variety of panels both in the School and University and at the national level. He was a member of the Senate Advisory
Committe and the Executive Committe of the School of Public Health. He
was elected Secretary of the Faculty in 1967 serving a three year term. He
was a member of the editorial board of the American Society of Parasitologists and served on various committees of the National Research Council.
Among other activities he served as a member of the Commission on Enteric
Infections of the Armed Forces Epidemiological Board.
In recognition of his distinguished career as a public health educator,
the Regents designate Dr. Richard J. Porter as Professor Emeritus of
Protozoology.
HERBERT     T. SCHMALE, M.D., Professor of Psychiatry in the        H. T. Schmale
Department of Psychiatry, retired on August 10, 1978 after a lengthy and  Retirement
productive career as a teacher and practicing psychoanalyst.
A native of Pennsylvania, Dr. Schmale did both his undergraduate and
medical studies at The University of Michigan, from which he received his
M.D. in 1940. Immediately thereafter, he completed a rotating internship
at the University, followed by a psychiatric residency, which he completed
in 1943. Following two and one-half years of military service, he returned
to The University of Michigan in 1946, where he has been affiliated with
the Neuropsychiatric Institute since that time.
He joined the University faculty in February, 1946, as an Instructor.
He became an Assistant Professor in 1948 and was promoted to the level
of Associate Professor in 1951, when he was simultaneously appointed
Chief of the Outpatient Psychiatric Clinic, a position he held with distinction
for many years. In 1966, he was promoted to full Professor of Psychiatry,
an appointment which he held continuously until his recent retirement
furlough.
Dr. Schmale has had a long and productive career in the Department
of Psychiatry. A graduate of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, he
became one of the most knowledgeable and respected analytic training supervisors in the country. In this context, Dr. Schmale has been responsible
over the past three decades for teaching and supervising literally hundreds
of residents and fellows, many of whom are now practicing senior analysts in
their own right.
Dr. Schmale was very active in the late 1950's in developing an analytically-oriented teaching program for our medical students. His advanced
work in the field of psychoanalysis has gained him national acclaim. On the
local and national scene, he has been active in the American Psychoanalytic
Association, the New York Psychoanalytic Society, the Michigan Psychoanalytic Society, and the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, to name just a few. Over the years, he has been involved in numerous
Medical School and Hospital Committees, serving for nearly a decade on the
Medical School Curriculum Committee and for six years on its Admissions
Committee.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his thirtytwo years of dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of
Psychiatry.




76


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


VII. DEATHS
No deaths were reported to the Regents.
VIII. DEGREES
Degree Lists  On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
ended Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Science, April 1978
School of Nursing
Parent-Child Nursing
add:
Catherine Wallis Griffin, B.S. Nurs.
Laurie Ann Kaudewitz, B.S. Nurs.
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Bachelor of Science, April 1978
add:
Denis David Ondeje
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 1974
add:
Mark Andrew Platt
Bachelor of Arts, May 1975
delete:
Mark Andrew Platt
Bachelor in General Studies, August 1977
add:
Shirley Ann Bradshaw
Bachelor of Science, December, 1977
add:
Donna Jean Emery
Bachelor of Arts, April, 1978
add:
Jay Knight Anstaett
Keith William Eirinberg, with Distinction; High Honors in Asian Studies
Alan Edward Gitles, with High Distinction
Vicki Lee Johnson, with Distinction
Jon Robert Lauer
Collen T. Layton, with High Distinction
Jodienne Kay Yamada
Caroline Lee Zisette




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


77


delete:
Barbara Anne Emery, with Distinction
correct to show:
John Charles Rexford, with Distinction; Honors in Psychology
Rachel Leah Rosenthal, with Distinction
Bachelor of Science, April 1978


add:
Richard Paul Capriccioso, with Distinction;
Zoology
Janet Miriam Cohen, with Distinction
Barbara Anne Emery, with Distinction
Mary Christina Gilliatt
Vicki Lynn Lopatin, with Distinction
Marian E. Oleszkowicz
Janet St. Clair, with Distinction
Braden Charles Stridde, with Distinction
Kirk Stanley Tarlo
delete:
Joel Adams Mesk
Jodienne Kay Yamada


Honors in Anthropology

correct to show:
Lawrence Robert Cronin, with High Distinction, Highest Honors in
Physiology
Bruce Irvin Galler, with Distinction; Honors in Computer & Communication Sciences
Chet David Lancetot, with Distinction; Honors in Computer & Communication Sciences
Nancy Ellen Miller, Honors in Computer & Communication Sciences
Mary Sullivan Reilly, with Distinction; Honors in Biology
Jerome Daniel Rosen, with High Distinction; Honors in Computer &
Communication Sciences
Bachelor in General Studies, April 1978
correct to show:
Michael Arnold Keys
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Vice-President Shapiro reviewed the detailed general fund
budget for 1978-79 for the Ann Arbor campus. He indicated that
the budget reflects some of the directions the University wishes to
pursue and the policies the University is trying to effect. There has
been significant improvement in funding for book acquisitions for
University Library, and particular effort is being made to address
the pressing need for scientific equipment for both classroom instruction and research.
The general fund allocation to financial aid has been increased
through the tuition grant program for graduate teaching assistants
and research assistants. The general fund contributions to financial
aid are a matter of great concern to the University and will continue to be addressed over the next few years.


Operating Budget
for 1978-79




78


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


Included in the budget is a $950,000 enforced savings item.
How best to meet this will be determined shortly.
Regent Dunn then moved to approve the Operating Budgets
for 1978-79. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Audit Report  The Regents received the annual audit report of Arthur Young
Annual and Company for 1977-78 for discussion in October.
H. F. Weber  Regent Laro moved to accept the offer to purchase from the
University 40 acres of land in Powell Township, Marquette
County, from the Helen F. Weber estate, subject to a reservation
of the mineral rights. Regent Power seconded the motion and
it was adopted. This action corrects the location of the 40 acres
reported to and approved by the Regents in July.
Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the University to sell
their Y2 undivided interest in 160 acres in Marquette Township,
Marquette County from the Helen F. Weber estate. Regent Roach
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that further negotiations
had taken place concerning the request to lease certain University
lands in Marquette County for mining purposes. He explained the
improvements and recommended approval.
Regent Roach moved to authorize leasing certain lands in
Marquette County from the Helen F. Weber estate to Superior
Oil Company for mining purposes, as recommended. Regent Power
seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regent Laro abstaining because of a potential conflict of interest.
Investments  The Regents received the annual report on investments.
Report
Dining Hail  Mr. Robert Hughes, Director of University Housing, presented
Consolidation
a proposal to consolidate food service in the residence halls. He
said that the Housing Office has considered this action on a
number of occasions as a cost savings device. However, the negative student reaction to the project, and the cost savings at that
time did not seem sufficient to warrant the proposal. Alternatives
such as trucking the food from one building to another, central
preparation of certain items, central kitchens providing food to
the individual building, and convenience foods, have been discused but would not provide significant cost savings.
At this point in time, consolidation would provide considerable
cost savings in labor and energy conservation, and additional
space for student housing. A survey of other institutions has shown
that most schools are already more consolidated than the University and these changes have been accepted by the students
although the first reactions were negative.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


79


After considering a number of ways to implement consolidation, construction of a new facility was preferred. The precise
method of financing the facility would depend on whether an
application for funds to the Federal College Housing Program is
approved.
Regents Brown, Laro and Roach agreed that unless the cost
savings were substantial, they would not be in favor of proceeding
with this project.
Regent Power commented that she is concerned about building
another single purpose facility on campus. She asked if the housing
office has made a long-range study of the total food service operation on campus. All alternatives must be considered, including
the possibility of contracting out the food service.
Mr. Hughes replied that at this point a contract service has
not been considered. He said he is familiar with this type of service
and thinks that the University can do a better and more economical job.
Regent Dunn suggested that consolidation should begin at
West and South Quads. This action would result in immediate
savings for everyone without capital outlay.
Regent Roach then moved to refer action until October at
which time alternative concepts of consolidation will be presented
to the Board. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Roach moved to adopt the following resolution pro- Hospital
viding for the borrowing of funds for paying the cost of University  Studies Resolution
Hospital replacement studies and to approve a Term Loan Agreement with National Bank and Trust Company of Ann Arbor.
Regent Laro seconded the motion and it was adopted. The loan
agreement appears as Appendix B to these minutes.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE BORROWING OF FUNDS
FOR PAYING THE COST OF UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL
REPLACEMENT STUDIES
WHEREAS, the Regents of The University of Michigan (the "Regents"),
in the exercise of its constitutional duties has determined that it is necessary
and expedient to initiate University Hospial Replacement Studies to provide
a basis for consideration of facility requirements and to support the Certificate of Need (the "Project"); and
WHEREAS, it is estimated that the cost of the Project will be $1,000,000.00;
and
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Regents it is necessary and expedient
that it borrow by means of a commercial bank loan the sum of $1,000,000.00
to be used by it to pay the cost of the Project; and




80


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


WHEREAS, there has been submitted for consideration of the Regents a
proposed Term Loan and Security Agreement (the "Agreement") and related
Note (the "Note") whereby the sum of $1,000,000.00 may be borrowed from
NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY of Ann Arbor, Michigan (the "Bank"),
a national banking association;
Now, THEREFORE, Be It Resolved that the Regents borrow for such
purposes the sum of $1,000,000.00 from the Bank upon the terms and conditions more fully set forth in the Agreement. The loan is to be for a term
of approximately 2y2 years, starting October 2, 1978, at an interest rate of
5.35% per annum. The repayment of the loan is to be secured solely by a
pledge of Total Revenue of the Hospital and Allocated Total Revenue, as
defined in the Agreement. In the event that Total Revenue of the Hospital
is not sufficient to repay said loan, the loan will be paid to the extent necessary from Funds Legally Available Therefor, as defined in the Agreement;
and
Be It Further Resolved that the Regents will cause to be segregated
and allocated from the Total Revenue of the Hospital, for so long as any
portion of the principal or interest on the Note shall remain unpaid, an
amount sufficient to pay the installments of principal and interest on the
Note as they fall due, as provided in the Agreement. The Regents further
covenant and agree that they will cause to be charged and will use their
best efforts to cause to be collected Total Revenue of the Hospital sufficient
in amount to meet its obligations under the Agreement; and
Be It Futher Resolved that the Agreement attached hereto and the
Note attached thereto are hereby approved; and
Be It Further Resolved that James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President of the
Regents, and Richard L. Kennedy, its Secretary, be and they are hereby
authorized, empowered, and directed in the name of the Regents and as its
corporate act and deed to execute the Agreement and the Note in the amount
of $1,000,000.00 to the Bank in substantially the form submitted herewith,
and to execute the other documents and to take the other actions required
by the Agreement; and
Be It Further Resolved that the said officers by and they hereby are
authorized, empowered and directed for and in the name of the Regents
and as its corporate act and deed to make, consent to, and agree to any
changes in the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Note which they
may deem necessary, expedient, and proper prior to, or at the time of,
execution of the Agreement and the Note, but no such amendment shall
change the provisions therein for the amount to be borrowed, the interest to
be paid thereon, the payments required to be made, or the security pledged;
provided, however, nothing herein contained shall be construed as limiting
the right of said officers to alter or change the date of issue of the Note and
the date of the Agreement; and
Be It Further Resolved that the said officers, in the execution of the
Agreement and the Note, shall not pledge the credit of, or create any liability
on the part of, the State of Michigan, the Regents, or any member or officer
of this Board, or any of their successors, other than to pledge or commit
the Total Revenue of the Hospital, Allocated Total Revenue and Funds
Legally Available Therefor, as provided in the Agreement, and
Be It Further Resolved that should it develop that James F. Brinkerhoff,
Vice-President of the Regents, through illness, absence or otherwise, be
unable to perform the acts he is herein authorized, empowered and directed
to perform, then, in that case, Chandler W. Matthews, Controller of the
Regents, is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to perform any and
all acts and deeds herein authorized and directed to be performed by the




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


81


said James F. Brinkerhoff, and any action so taken by Chandler W.
Matthews shall be as binding on the Regents as if performed by the said
James F. Brinkerhoff, and
Be It Further Resolved that should it develop that Richard L. Kennedy,
Secretary of the Regents, through illness, absence, or otherwise, be unable to
perform the acts he is herein authorized, empowered and directed to perform,
then, in that case, Chandler W. Matthews, Controller of the Regents, is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to perform any and all acts and deeds
herein authorized and directed to be performed by the said Richard L.
Kennedy, and any action so taken by Chandler W. Matthews shall be as
binding on the Regents as if performed by the said Richard L. Kennedy.
Be It Further Resolved that the said officers are authorized, if they so
desire, to sign the Agreement and the Note and any other documents required
by the Agreement as J. F. Brinkerhoff, R. L. Kennedy, or C. W. Matthews,
respectively.
The Regents received a report on University Hospital house-       Hospital
Housekeeping
keeping services.                                                 Services
Regent Roach moved to appoint the firm of Price Waterhouse     Auditors for
& Company as auditors for the University for 1978-79. Regent      1978-79 Appointed
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Waters moved to authorize proceeding with the re-       Renovations, Old
modeling of the Old Architecture and Design building, as recommended. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
X. OTHER
The Regents received reports on selected characteristics of    Financial Aid
students receiving financial assistance administered by the Ann Report
Arbor campus, and highlights of the financial aid programs at
Dearborn and Flint for 1976-77.
Regent Waters expressed his concern regarding University      Investments,
investments in corporations, particularly those conducting busi-  Committee
ness in South Africa. He then moved that the Regents direct the
administration to meet with appropriate individuals and groups
to recommend to the Regents at the regular meeting in October
whether the University should have an investment advisory committee on social responsibility and investment policy; if so, what
should be the composition of that committee; whether staff for
the committee should be separate or should these services be
provided by the existing investment office; and whether such a
committee should make recommendations directly to the President
or to the Regents. Regent Brown seconded the motion.
In responding to the question as to whether the committee
would limit their concerns to South African investments or to total
University investments, Regent Waters stated that would be
determined by the recommendation.
Regent Roach commented that this issue was considered last
spring when the question of South African investments was




82


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


addressed. The Senate Advisory Committee on Financial Affairs
also considered it very carefully at that time. Their report contained the following paragraph concerning making institutional
statements in a University setting: "The right to dissent is
precious both to the University and to our society; but this is the
right of the individual member of the university community and
its exercise should in no way compromise the freedom of others.
If the University operates successfully, members of the community should be free to discuss any question or analyze any issue,
no matter how controversial or unpopulair. However, when the
University, acting as a corporate body, adopts a political position
by formal statements of the Regents, or by their official actions,
it runs the risk of impairing its essential role as a neutral forum
for discussion or debate. Such large and dangerous risks should
be taken only in those cases where the University's policies or
practices clearly affect fundamental human rights and liberties."
Regent Roach said that he felt the thrust of the motion in its
general sense is absolutely contrary to what the Senate committee
recommended and contrary to regental action last spring. If other
issues should arise which affects fundamental human rights and
liberties and are broad concerns to the campus community, then
an ad hoc committee would again be appointed to study the issues
and appropriate action would be taken.
President Fleming called for the vote. The motion failed with
Regents Dunn, Laro, Nederlander and Roach voting no.
Affirmative  With respect to Regents Waters' request to consider establishing
President for the position of Vice-President for Affirmative Action, Vice-President Shapiro said that a committee had been studying the issue
and would report to the Regents in October.
Search   The problems concerning the composition of search committees
Committees,
Composition of for vice president, deans, etc. were discussed. Regent Waters asked
that a report be presented to the Regents next month outlining
the problems and possible solutions.
Regents' Meeting  Regent Roach moved to approve the following Regents' meeting schedule for 1979. Regents Nederlander seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
January 18, 19            July 19, 20
February 15, 16           August-no meeting
March 15, 16              September 20, 21
April 19, 20              October 18, 19
May 17, 18                November 15, 16
June 14, 15               December 20, 21
Commencement Exercises in 1979 will be on Saturday, April 28, 1979;
Sunday, August 19, 1979; and Sunday, December 16, 1979.
The Thursday sessions of the regular October and May meetings will
be held at Flint and Dearborn respectively.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


83


Regent Nederlander moved to award a contract (Bid Package
#4) to the low bidder, Systems Technology Corporation, for the
Central Monitoring Control and Security System in an amount
not to exceed $310,000. Regent Waters seconded the motion and
it was adopted.


Contract Awarded,
UM Flint


Regent Nederlander moved to approve the proposed academic  Academic
Calendars
calendars for 1979-80 and 1980-81 for UM-Flint. Regent Brown  UM Flint
seconded the motion and it was adopted.


1979-1980


FALL TERM, 1979
Registration
Classes Begin
Friday Classes Meet
Thanksgiving Recess Begins
Classes Resume
Classes End
(Saturday Classes meet Dec. 15)
Study Days
Examination Period
Commencement
WINTER TERM, 1980
Registration
Classes Begin
Spring Recess Begins
Classes Resume
Classes End
(Saturday Classes meet Apr. 19)
Study Days
Examination Period
Commencement
SPRING TERM, 1980
Registration
Classes Begin
(Monday Classes Meet)
Memorial Day (Holiday)
Classes End
Examination Period
SUMMER TERM, 1980
Registration
Classes Begin
July 4th (Holiday)
Classes End
(Friday Classes Meet)
Examination Period


Sept. 4 (Tuesday)
Sept. 5 (Wednesday)
Nov. 21 (Wednesday)
Nov. 21 (Wednesday) at 10:30 p.m.
Nov. 26 (Monday) at 8:00 a.m.
Dec. 13 (Thursday)
Dec. 14-16 (Friday-Sunday)
Dec. 17-22 (Monday-Saturday)
(To be announced)
Jan. 3 (Thursday)
Jan. 4 (Friday)
Mar. 1 (Saturday) at 10:30 p.m.
Mar. 10 (Monday) at 8:00 a.m.
Apr. 17 (Thursday) at 10:30 p.m.
Apr. 18-20 (Friday-Sunday)
Apr. 21-26 (Monday-Saturday)
(To be announced)
Apr. 28 (Monday)
Apr. 29 (Tuesday) at 8:00 a.m.
May 26 (Monday)
June 17 (Tuesday) at 10':30 p.m.
June 18-19 (Wednesday-Thursday)
June 20 (Friday)
June 21 (Saturday) at 8:00 a.m.
July 4 (Friday)
Aug. 11 (Monday) at 10:30 p.m.
Aug. 12-13 (Tuesday-Wednesday)




84


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


1980-1981


FALL TERM, 1980
Registration
Classes Begin
Thanksgiving Recess Begins
Classes Resume
Classes End
Study Days
Examination Period
Commencement


Sept. 2 (Tuesday)
Sept. 3 (Wednesday) at 8:00 a.m.
Nov. 25 (Tuesday) at 10:30 p.m.
Dec. 1 (Monday) at 8:00 a.m.
Dec. 13 (Saturday) at 10:30 p.m.
Dec. 13-15 (Saturday-Monday)
Dec. 16-23 (Tuesday-Tuesday)
(To be announced)


WINTER TERM, 1981
Registration
Classes Begin
Spring Recess Begins
Classes Resume
Classes End
Study Days
Examination Period
Commencement
SPRING TERM, 1981
Registration
Classes Begin
Memorial Day (Holiday)
Classes End
Examination Period


Jan. 2 (Friday)
Jan. 5 (Monday) at 8:00 a.m.
Feb. 28 (Saturday) at 10:30 p.m.
Mar. 9 (Monday) at 8:00 a.m.
Apr. 18 (Saturday) at 10:30 p.m.
Apr. 18-20 (Saturday-Monday)
Apr. 21-28 (Tuesday-Tuesday)
(To be announced)
May 1 (Friday)
May 4 (Monday) at 8:00 a.m.
May 25 (Monday)
June 22 (Monday) at 10:30 p.m.
June 23-24 (Tuesday-Wednesday)


SUMMER TERM, 1981
Registration
Classes Begin
Independence Holiday Begins
Classes Resume
Classes End
Examination Period


June 26 (Friday)
June 27 (Saturday) at 8:00 a.m.
July 3 (Friday) at 10:30 p.m.
July 7 (Tuesday) at 8:00 a.m.
Aug. 16 (Monday) at 10:30 p.m.
Aug. 17-18 (Tuesday-Wednesday)


Certificate of  President Fleming commented that because of the moratorium
Applications on hospital construction requiring certificate of need approval,
it will be necessary to file letters of intent for a number of projects
associated with remodeling and renovation of facilities. These
letters of intent do not commit the University to embark upon
the project or to follow the general description of the project as
included in the letter, but they must be filed before a certificate
of need can be obtained. Specific program proposals will be presented to the Regents for their approval before a firm commitment
is made.


F. Wagman
Appointed
Secretary to
Search Committee


Regent Nederlander then proposed that Dr. Frederick Wagman, Director Emeritus of University Library serve as secretary
to the Board of Regents' presidential search committee. Regent
Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


85


All the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of July totaled $844.44, and the month of August totaled
$1,394.62.
The Regents adjourned to meet on October 19 and 20, 1978.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary
INDEX
Affirmative Action, Vice-President for, 82
Appointments, 62, 64; committee, 63
Audit report, annual, 78
Auditors for 1978-79 appointed, 81
Axelrod, S. J., retirement, 70
Budget, operating, for 1978-79, 77
Certificate of Need applications, 84
Child, C. G., retirement, 71
Degrees: lists amended, 76
Dining Hall consolidation, 78
Dusseau, E. M., retirement, 71
Family Housing rates, 55
Financial Aid report, 81
Fleming, President, announced retirement, 49
Fleming, Mrs., statement, 50
Flint: contract awarded, 83; academic calendars, 83
Gifts, 56
Hospital: housekeeping services, 81; replacement planning report, 54; replacement studies resolution, 79
Hunter, W. W., retirement, 72
Investment report, 78
Investments, advisory committee on, 81
Leaves of absence, 63, 70
Nederlander, Regent, statement, 50
Ostrand, L. G., retirement, 73
Peyton, F. A., retirement, 73
Porter, R. J., retirement, 74
Presidential Selection Committee, established, 51
Promotions, 63, 67
Public Comments, 56
Regents' comments about R. W. Fleming, 51
Regents' meeting schedule for 1979, 82
Renovations, Old A & D Building, 81
Resignations, 68
Schmale, H. T., retirement, 75
Search Committees, Composition of, 82
Wagman, F., appointed secretary to Search Committee, 84
Weber, H. F., estate, 78




86


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


APPENDIX A
HONORARY DEGREES
Characterizations by Professor Emeritus Frank Huntley
Conferred August 20, 1978
W. MICHAEL BLUMENTHAL, Adopted American, Business Executive,
Secretary of the United States Treasury.
Born in Germany of Jewish background, Mr. Blumenthal as a boy fled
with his parents from Hitler's oppression and landed in Shanghai. Throughout the Second World War the family lived in a one-room shack under prison
conditions set by the Japanese occupation. Arriving in the United States
at war's end, he subsequently earned from Berkeley and Princeton four
academic degrees, including the Ph.D. He became labor arbitrator for the
State of New Jersey while securing a tenured professorship at Princeton.
Later, making his home in Ann Arbor, he served as chief officer of Michigan's
multinational Bendix Corporation. Here he brought the company to its
highest profits despite some recessional times and set a mark for involving
employees in managerial decisions. In 1963 he was President Kennedy's
special representative, with the rank of Ambassador, for international trade
negotiations, and, not surprisingly, inherits a cabinet position in the present
Administration.
Thus Michael Blumenthal embodies the American dream, rising from
privation to outstanding success in three demanding professions-those of
academia, business, and government service.
A valued friend of our University, he has lent his insight and energy to
those of our academic units that represents his major interests, including
of course the Center for Chinese Studies. We honor ourselves by honoring
with the degree of Doctor of Laws this man of eminence in our community,
the nation, and the world.
STELLA BRUNT OSBORN, Author, Philanthropist, World Stateswoman.
This wise and gracious lady has been claimed as one of their own by
our University, by the State of Michigan, and by the world at large. Twice
an alumna, in 1967 she received our award for "Outstanding Achievement."
Our Bentley Library and its invaluable historical collections have been the
special beneficiaries of her energy, talent, and dedication. As the wife of the
late Governor Chase Osborn and through her many books, she has helped
give our state, from Copper Harbor to Monroe and from St. Joseph to
Detroit, its cultural shape. In prose and poetry she has expressed what it
feels like to be a Michigander, and, since making her winter home in Georgia,
a Southerner too, and above all an American.
It is particularly for her contribution to international relations, however, that our internationally oriented University honors her now. She has
been a pioneer worker in the Atlantic Union on both sides of the ocean,
representing its ideals of peace and freedom as delegate to conferences in
Copenhagen, Paris, Athens, Munich, Rome, Amsterdam, Lisbon, and Madrid.
She is a member of the London Institute of World Affairs, the American
Scandinavian Foundation, and the prestigious Hugo Grotius Foundation,
named after the great seventeenth century Dutch founder of International
Law. For all this and more, last year she was given the first Frank Cyril
James Award for citizen participation in international affairs.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


87


Stella Brunt Osborn, we honor you today with the degree Doctor of
Leters for what you have been and are, and at the same time declare our love
for you by echoing John Donne
"No Spring nor Summer beauty hath such grace
As we have seen in one Autumnal face."
HERBERT A. SIMON, Computer Expert, Model Builder, Humanitarian.
Among social scientists there is not a dissenting voice to the proposition
that Mr. Simon is one of the world's most brilliant innovators. A pioneer in
computer technology, he has built such models in the behavioral sciences,
especially in communication, that instead of machines imitating the work of
man, men may well learn from the machine how better to behave. Were
we not beset by problems we would hardly be human-problems of personal
identity, problems between parents and children, management and labor,
administration and faculty, reality and dream. Even the titles of Mr. Simon's
distinguished books ring a litany on the problem of solving human problems:
Administrative Behavior, Public Administration, Models of Man, Organizations, New Science of Management Decision, The Shape of Automation, The
Sciences of the Artificial, Human Problem Solving. Besides writing and lecturing here and abroad, he serves on dozens of committees, often as chairman. One of his most recent appointments was to the Chairmanship of the
National Academy Committee to review the complex aims, means, and
methods of the National Science Foundation, which has been so responsible
for America's world leadership.
Unspoiled by these demands, honors, and he exactitude of his profession,
Mr. Simon remains a modest and loving human being who honors The
University of Michigan today as we honor him with the degree Doctor of
Laws.




88


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


APPENDIX B
TERM LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL REPLACEMENT PLANNING STUDIES
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 2nd day of October,
1978, between THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body
corporate created by and existing under the Constitution of the State of
Michigan (the "University"), and NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY of
ANN ARBOR, a national banking association of ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN (the
"Bank");
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the University, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, has
determined that it is necessary and expedient to initiate University Hospital
Replacement Planning Studies (the "Project") to provide a basis for consideration of facility requirements and to support the Certificate of Need; and
WHEREAS, it is estimated that the cost of he Project will be $1,000,000;
and
WHEREAS, the University, by proper resolution, has determined to borrow
by means of a commercial bank loan the sum of $1,000,000 which shall be
used to pay the cost of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the Bank is willing to make the said loan for the said purposes
upon the terms and conditions more fully set forth herein;
Now, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein contained, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the words elsewhere defined in this Agreement, the
following words as used herein shall have the following meaning unless the
context clearly otherwise indicates.
Fiscal Year-The term "Fiscal Year" shall mean any consecutive twelve
month period employed by the University in keeping its books of account,
currently ending on June 30 of each year.
Total Revenue or Total Revenue of the Hospital-The terms "Total
Revenue" or "Total Revenue of the Hospital" shall mean all revenues, income, receipts and money received in any period by or on behalf of the
University with respect to or arising from or relating to the operation of
the Hospital as used in Hospital financial statements, excluding (1) appropriations received from the State of Michigan, (2) proceeds of borrowing
and interest earned thereon if and to the extent such interest is required to
be excluded by the terms of the borrowing, and (3) gifts, grants, bequests,
donations and contributions received by or allocated to the Hospital.
Allocated Total Revenue-The term "Allocated Total Revenue" shall
mean the portion of the Total Revenue of the Hospital which the University
is required to set aside in the Debt Retirement Fund (as hereinafter defined)
under the provision of Section 6 of this Agreement.
Funds Legally Available Therefor-The term "Funds Legally Available
Therefor" as used herein shall mean any moneys of the University that may
be legally used by the University to pay principal of, and interest on, the
Note but shall not include any funds (a) currently or subsequently pledged




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


89


for, or committed to present or future loans or other purposes to the extent
so pledged, or committed or (b) the use of which would result in the loan
herein authorized being construed as indebtedness of the State of Michigan
under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
Hospital-The term "Hospital" shall mean The University Hospital
located in Ann Arbor, Michigan, including all Hospital facilities whether
now existing or hereinafter constructed, installed or acquired.
SECTION 2
COMMITMENT OF BANK
The Bank agrees to lend to the University and the University agrees to
borrow from the Bank on the date of this Agreement the sum of $1,000,000.
The Loan shall be evidenced by a note of the University to the Bank (the
"Note") in the principal amount of $1,000,000 in the form annexed as
Exhibit A, dated October 2, 1978, and maturing on April 1, in the years
and in the principal amounts set forth in the Note and bearing interest at
the rate of 5.35% per annum payable on April 1, 1979, and semi-annually
thereafter as provided in the Note and payable solely from the funds and
in the manner hereinafter provided. The principal of, and interest on, the
Note shall be payable in lawful money of the United States of America at
the principal office of the Bank.
SECTION 3
PREPAYMENT OF THE NOTE
Except as herein otherwise provided, upon thirty (30) business days
written notice, the University may from time to time prepay the principal
of the Note, in whole or in part, by paying the principal amount so to be
prepaid, together with accrued interest, if any, on such principal amount. In
making any prepayment to the Bank, the University may use any funds in
its possession which it may appropriate for that purpose. No such prepayment shall reduce the amount of the Allocated Total Revenue to be set
aside under Section 6 hereof. Any partial prepayment shall be applied to
the final installment or installments of principal on the Note in the inverse
order of their maturity, and such final installment or installments of principal
shall be reduced to the extent that principal thereon has been so prepaid. The
minimum partial prepayment shall not be less than $50.000.
SECTION 4
AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
The University covenants and agrees as follows:
(A) That all funds borrowed hereunder shall be impressed with a
trust solely for the purposes of paying the cost of the Project.
(B) That it will pay promptly the principal of, and interest on the
Note, on the dates and in the manner provided herein, provided, that
said principal and interest on the Note shall be payable solely out of
the funds described in Section 6 of this Agreement. The University
further covenants that it will promptly pay interest (to the extent not
prohibied by law) at the rate borne by the Note on all overdue installments of principal and interest.
SECTION 5
DEBT RETIREMENT FUND
The University covenants and agrees that it will immediately establish
a special separate account on its books and records designated UNIVERSTIY




90


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


HOSPITAL REPLACEMENT PLANNING STUDIES LOAN DEBT RETIREMENT FUND
(the "Debt Retirement Fund"), the moneys from time to time allocated and
set aside in said Fund to be used solely and only to pay the principal of,
and interest on the Note when due or to prepay principal thereof. The
Allocated Total Revenue required for the retirement of the Note, as provided
in Section 6 hereof, and release of the Loan proceeds, as provided in Section
10 hereof, shall be set aside in the Debt Retirement Fund.
SECTION 6
ALLOCATION OF TOTAL REVENUE AND FUNDS LEGALLY AVAILABLE THEREFOR
The University covenants and agrees that out of Total Revenue of the
Hospital during each Fiscal Year, it will allocate and set aside in the Debt
Retirement Fund amounts fully sufficient, when combined with the accrued
interest deposited in the Debt Retirement Fund as provided in Section 5
hereof and other funds allocated by the University to the Debt Retirement
Fund, to pay installments of the principal of, and interest on, the Note as
the same become due.
The University further covenants and agrees that in the event Total
Revenue of the Hospital is not received in amounts and at times sufficient
to assure payment of the installments of the principal of, and interest on,
the Note as they fall due, it will from time to time allocate out of the Funds
Legally Available Therefor, amouns sufficient, when combined with the
Allocated Total Revenue available for such purpose, to pay the installments
of the principal of, and interest on, the Note as they fall due.
The Allocated Total Revenue is pledged solely and only for the payment of the principal of, and interest on, the Note, and the University
covenants and agrees that it will use and apply such Allocated Total Revenue
for said purpose. Such Allocated Total Revenue shall be applied first to pay
interest on the Note as the same becomes due and thereafter shall be used
to pay the principal of the Note.
So long as the installments of principal of, and interest on, the Note
are paid when due, the University may in its discretion allocate excess funds
generated from the Total Revenue to such other lawful purposes of the
University as are consistent with the requirements of Sections 7 and 16 of
this Agreement.
SECTION 7
COVENANTS REGARDING TOTAL REVENUE, THE CREATION OF A LIEN
THEREON AND THE PLEDGE THEREOF
The University covenants and agrees that as long as the Note remains
unpaid, as to either principal or interest, it will establish, maintain and collect
Total Revenue of the Hospital which, together with all other receipts and
revenues of the Hospital and any other funds of the Hospital available
therefor, will be sufficient to provide each Fiscal Year sums equal to at
least two hundred per cent (200%) of the maximum annual principal and
interest requirements on all outstanding obligations payable from Total
Revenue or allocations therefrom for the current or any subsequent Fiscal
Year. The Allocated Total Revenue shall constitute and be a first lien or
charge against the Total Revenue of the Hospital, subject only to the prior
lien granted to the obligation described in Section 8 of this Agreement, and
the lien or charge herein granted shall be of equal standing with lien or
charge of any additional obligations to be incurred, as authorized by Section 9 of this Agreement. The University does hereby irrevocably pledge to
the payment of the principal of, and interest on, the Note the Allocated Total
Revenue and any funds which may be deposited in the Debt Retirement
Fund which are intended and necessary to pay the principal of, and interest




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978                         91
on, the Note during the Fiscal Year of the deposit, subject to the prior lien
of the obligation described in Section 8 hereof.
SECTION 8
PRIORITY OF PLEDGE AND LIEN ON THE TOTAL REVENUE
The pledge of Total Revenue for payment of the principal of, and
interest on, the Note shall be of equal standing and priority of lien with
the pledge of Total Revenue for the following outstanding obligation of the
University payable from Total Revenue and for any additional obligations
which may be issued pledging Total Revenue, as authorized by Section 9 of
this Agreement:
HOSPITAL COMPUTER LOAN
Original amount-$816,000.00
Dated August 1, 1977
Final maturity April 1, 1982
Notwithstanding the preceding paragraph or any other provision in this
Agreement, the lien or charge on Total Revenue of the Hospital herein
granted shall be subordinated to the lien established pursuant to a certain
Term Loan and Security Agreement and Promissory Note entered into by the
University and National Bank and Trust Company of Ann Arbor, a National
Banking Association of Ann Arbor, Michigan, on April 10, 1967, in the
original principal amount of $900,000 with a final scheduled maturity of
April 1, 1981. As a result of the granting of the lien pursuant to said Term
Loan and Security Agreement the Total Revenue of the Hospital pledged
herein must be first utilized to pay the loan payments required to be made
pursuant to said National Bank and Trust Company of Ann Arbor Loan
Agreement before being applied to the Note executed pursuant to this
Agreement.
SECTION 9
ADDITIONAL OBLIGATIONS OF EQUAL STANDING
Additional obligations for authorized purposes may be issued or incurred
by the University, secured by additional allocations of Total Revenue, having
equal standing and priority of lien or charge against Total Revenue with the
Note, provided, however, that no such additional obligations shall be issued
or incurred unless the total amount of the Total Revenue collected during
each of the last two preceding Fiscal Years as shown by audit reports of the
University for such Fiscal Years, is individually equal to at least 200% of
the sum of the following: (1) the maximum annual amount of Allocated
Total Revenue pledged or required to be pledged in the current Fiscal Year
or in any one succeeding Fiscal Year thereafter to the payment of the Note
and the outstanding obligations described in Section 8 hereof; (2) the maximum annual amount of Total Revenue allocated and pledged in the current
Fiscal Year or in any one succeeding Fiscal Year thereafter to the payment
of any other then outstanding obligations; (3) the maximum annual amount
of Total Revenue allocated and pledged in the current Fiscal Year or in any
one succeeding Fiscal Year thereafter to the additional obligations then being
issued or incurred. For the purposes of this Section 9 in determining the total
amount of the Total Revenue collected during the last two preceding Fiscal
Years as aforesaid the University may elect to use as the last Fiscal Year
any Fiscal Year ending not more than sixteen (16) months from the date of
delivery of the additional obligations and as the next to the last Fiscal Year,
any Fiscal Year ending not more than twenty-eight (28) months from the
date of delivery of the additional obligations. Any such additional obligations
shal be payable as to principal on April 1st of the year or years of maturity,




92


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


and the interest thereon shall be payable either annually or semi-annually
on either April 1st and/or October 1st of each year.
SECTION 10
RELEASE OF LOAN PROCEEDS
On October 2, 1978, it is agreed that the Bank will release the entire
proceeds of the Loan to the University for the purpose of subsequently
paying part of the cost of the Project, subject to delivery to the Bank of the
duly executed Note, the approving opinion of the Office of the General
Counsel of the University, and upon receipt of the usual closing certificates
and documents in form satisfactory to the Bank.
SECTION 11
SECURITY AND IMMUNITY
No property of the University, except the Total Revenue, Allocated
Total Revenue, and Funds Legally Available Therefor shall be security for,
levied upon, or sold to pay the principal of, and interest on, the Note. No
recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, stipulation, or agreement
contained in this Agreement or the Note shall be had against the State of
Michigan, or against the corporate body known as The Regents of the
University of Michigan, except the remedies provided in Section 14 hereof.
No recourse to any personal liability shall be had for redress under any of
the obligations, covenants, stipulations, or agreements of this Agreement,
or the Note, upon, from, or to any officer of the University of Michigan or
any member of the Board of Regents, either directly or through the University, by any legal or equitable proceeding by virtue of any statute or
otherwise, it being hereby expressly agreed that no personal liability shall
attach to, or be incurred by, the said officers or any member of the Board
of Regents or any or either of them, under or by reason of any of the
obligations, covenants, stipulations, or agreements herein incurred, or in the
Note, expressed or contained therein, or implied therefrom, it being expressly
understood and agreed that this loan is secured by, and payable only from
Total Revenue, Allocated Total Revenue, and Funds Legally Available Therefor and that no other liability for the payment of moneys shall attach to,
or be incurred by, the State of Michigan, the University, any member of the
Board of Regents, or any member or officer of the University of Michigan,
or its or their successors, all other liability, except as herein provided, being
expressly waived. The Note and this Agreement are not intended to create
any indebtedness of the State of Michigan or of the University within the
meaning of any State constitutional debt limitation or restriction.
SECTION 12
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
The University represents and warrants that:
(A) No litigation or governmental proceedings are pending, or to the
knowledge of the University, threatened against the University which seeks
to enjoin the execution or delivery of the Note or this Loan Agreement or
which could have a material adverse effect on this loan or the security
therefor.
(B) All acts required by the Constitution and applicable statutes of
the State of Michigan, and all applicable rules and regulations of The
Regents of the University, have been, or will be, complied with by the
execution of this Agreement, and the said Agreement is, and the Note, when
issued, will be valid and binding in accordance with the terms hereof and
thereof.




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


93


(C) All acts necessary to perfect a security interest in the pledged Total
Revenue to the Bank, subject to the prior lien described in Section 8 hereof,
have been taken by the University as required by the statutes of the State
of Michigan and the University agrees that it will execute such appropriate
instruments as the Bank may supply to the University to continue the perfected lien of the security interest.
(D) The execution of this Agreement will not violate or be in countervention of any loan agreement, mortgage, deed, indenture, or other undertaking to which the University is a party or by which it is bound.
SECTION 13
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
If any one or more of the following events, herein called "Events of
Default," shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of the Note
and accrued unpaid interest thereon shall become due and payable upon
demand:
(A) If any principal (whether any installment or the unpaid balance)
or interest on the Note shall not be paid within thirty (30) days after the
same becomes due;
(B) Default in the observance or performance of any other agreement
of the University herein set forth, and the continuance thereof for thirty
(30) days after written notice thereof to the University from the Bank;
(C) Any representation or warranty made (1) by the University herein
or any representation or warranty made (2) by the University in any report,
statement, schedule, or certificate furnished to the Bank pursuant to this
Agreement, prove untrue in any material respect as of the date of this
Agreement concerning (1), or as of the date of such report, statement,
schedule, or certificate concerning (2).
SECTION 14
REMEDY ON DEFAULT
In case of any Event of Default, the Bank may proceed to enforce its
rights, either by mandamus or other remedy provided by law, to compel
the University to perform each and every covenant herein contained, or by
injunction, or other remedy provided by law, to prevent the University from
performing any act in violation of said covenants.
The University expressly authorizes the Bank to bring any of the actions
at law or in equity hereinbefore mentioned, and hereby waives any immunity to be proceeded against as herein authorized which may exist by
reason of its being a subdivision of the Michigan State Government.
SECTION 15
MISCELLANEOUS
(A) Any notice or demand which by the provisions of this Agreement
is required or provided to be served to or upon the University or the Bank,
respectively, shall be deemed to be given or served for all purposes by being
sent by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed to The Regents of the
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 48109, and to National Bank
and Trust Company of Ann Arbor, Post Office Box 8601, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 48107; respectively, or if any other address shall at any time be designated by either in writing received by the other, to such other address.




94


SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978


(B) No course of dealing between the University and the Bank or any
delay on the part of the Bank in exercising any rights hereunder or under
the Note shall operate as a waiver of any rights hereunder or under the
Note or otherwise.
(C) If and when the principal, of and interest on the Note shall have
been paid in full, then this Agreement shall be terminated and shall be of
no further force and effect. Within thirty (30) days after such termination,
the Bank shall cancel the Note and return it to the University and execute
an instrument provided by the University which shall specifically release
the University from the covenants herein.
(D) Should any provision, sentence, or section of this Agreement be
held invalid for any reason, such holding shall not be construed as affecting
the validity of any remaining portion of said section or of this Agreement.
(E) This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts,
together, shall and will constitute one and the same instrument.
SECTION 16
COVENANTS OF THE UNIVERSITY WITH RESPECT TO
INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Loan Agreement or
any resolution adopted heretofore, the University hereby covenants and
agrees that it will not invest or reinvest the proceeds of the loan in a manner
which would cause the Note to constitute an "arbitrage bond" within the
meaning of Section 103(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended,
and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(B) The University further covenants that it will not cause at any time
or times any of the proceeds of the Note or any other funds of the University
to be used directly or indirectly in a manner which would result in the
exclusion of said Note from the treatment afforded by Section 103(a) of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, by reason of the classification of such Note as "an industrial development bond" within the meaning
of Section 103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and
all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(C) The University shall keep full and complete records of all deposits
to, and withdrawals from, each of the funds and accounts related to the
Allocated Total Revenue and the proceeds of this financing and of all
other transactions relating to such funds and accounts and of all investments
and reinvestments of moneys in such accounts and the interest and gain
derived therefrom.
SECTION 17
AUDITS AND ACCOUNTS
The University further agrees to furnish to the Bank as a part of the
annual audit of the University prepared by a Certified Public Accountant
selected by the University, summary information showing the collection,
allocation and disposition of the Total Revenue of the Hospital and pertaining to the Debt Retirement Fund, including specifically the payments
made to the Bank therefrom.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Regents of the University of Michigan has
caused these presents to be signed by its Vice President, attested by its
Secretary, and sealed with its corporate seal, and National Bank and Trust
Company of Ann Arbor has caused these presents to be executed on its




SEPTEMBER MEETING, 1978                         95
behalf by  its Vice President, attested  by  its.............................
and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed, all as of the 2nd day of October,
1978.
Attest:                      THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN.........................  B y..................................
R. L. Kennedy, Secretary               J. F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President
Attest:                      NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
OF ANN ARBOR...............B       y...................................
Dennis E. Pearsall, Vice President
Exhibit A                     NOTE             Ann Arbor, Michigan
$1,000,000                                      October 2, 1978
The Regents of the University of Michigan, a body corporate created
by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan, promises
to pay to the order of National Bank and Trust Company of Ann Arbor,
Ann Arbor, Michigan, the sum of One Million ($1,000,000) Dollars, together
with interest thereon at the rate of 5.35% per annum upon all principal sums
from Total Revenue, Allocated Total Revenue, and Funds Legally Available
Therefor as defined in a certain Term Loan and Security Agreement by and
between the Regents of the University of Michigan and National Bank and
Trust Company of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor, Michigan, dated October 2, 1978.
Payment shall be as follows:
Payment           Interest          Principal            Total
Dates           Payments          Payments            Payments
April 1, 1979       $26,530.14        $100,000.00        $126,530.14
October 1, 1979     24,075.00            -0-               24,075.00
April 1, 1980        24,075.00         100,000.00         124,075.00
October 1, 1980     21,400.00            -0-               21,400.00
April 1, 1981        21,400.00         800,000.00         821,400.00
The foregoing payments shall be subject to adjustment as provided in
the Term Loan and Security Agreement in the event of prepayment of
principal as provided therein.
This Note is issued pursuant to, is entitled to the benefits, and is subjcet
to all of the terms and conditions of the Term Loan and Security Agreement
hereinbefore described.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN
By..................................
J. F. Brinkerhoff, Vice President


By...................................
R. L. Kennedy, Secretary




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1978
The Regents met at 11:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, and Waters. Chancellor Goodall and VicePresidents Shapiro, Radock, Overberger, Johnson and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regents Laro and
Roach and Vice-President Brinkerhoff were absent.
Mr. Chandler Matthews, Controller of the University, intro- Audit Report
duced Philip Calder from the Arthur Young and Company who
would comment on the completed audit report for the year ending
June 30, 1978.
Mr. Calder discussed the problem still existing at University
Hospital concerning collecting receivables, and suggested that the
hospital administration act promptly to remedy the situation. He
also discussed what the Arthur Young and Company considered
to be a violation of University policy by the Athletic Department
with regard to competitive bidding for renovations at the stadium.
The Regents then adjourned to reconvene at UM-Flint for
continuation of the meeting. Chancellor Moran and Regent Laro
joined the meeting at 2:30 P.M.
Chancellor Moran reviewed for the Regents a status report Public Television
on the public television project at Flint. He stated that all the  U'M-Flint
licenses for public television stations but the Detroit station in the
State of Michigan are owned by Community Colleges or Universities. The Flint metropolitan area and the Thumb area are
virtually unserved by public television. The results of a feasibility
study financed by the Mott Foundation in 1975 indicated that a
strong case could be made for a public television station in the
Flint metropolitan area and that state and federal support would
in all likelihood be available.
Because circumstances at that time were not propitious,
further investigation into the possibilities of UM-Flint developing a TV station was not begun until 1977 when a proposal to two
Flint area foundations requesting funds was submitted. After
receiving approval from the Board of Regents, application was
97




98                OCTOBER MEETING, 1978
made for a construction permit and operating funds from the
State Legislature were sought and obtained. With the private
monies in place and the matching equipment monies from HEW
expected shortly, the project has about reached the point of no
return.
Chancellor Moran described the intended coverage of the
television station and the location of the transmitter. He also explained the revenue sources for the operating costs and equipment
expenditures.
Following discussion of various aspects of the project, Chancellor Moran said that a report on the Federal Grant would be
submitted, along with plans to proceed, to the Regents at the
November meeting.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of September 14 and 15, 1978 were
approved as amended by Regent Baker to include the comments
by the individual Regents expressing their regard for President
Fleming and his service to the University over the past several
years.
II. REPORTS
Expendable    Vice-President Brinkerhoff filed a quarterly report of ExpendRestricted
Funds Budget able Restricted Fund Budgets. It is summarized below:
Budgets in the amount of $26,131,280 have been initiated for accounts
and activities of the Expendable Restricted Fund since the meeting of July 28,
1978. The following is a summary of the budgets initiated since the last
meeting. Also, there is a review of activities for July thru September 1977.
July-Sept.  July-Sept.
1977       1978
1. Instructional Programs.......................$ 8,060,020 $ 7,025,140
2. Research Grants and Contracts............... 15,092,134  16,784,244
3. Student Aid (Fellowship, Scholarships, Grants)  2,464,234  1,865,437
4. Student  Activities............................
5. State and Public Services....................   8,800     456,459
6. Administrative and Service Activities.............
7. Annuitants....................................
TOTAL................................. $25,625,188  $26,131,280
Within each category, the source of funds for each budget is indicated
and a summary of these sources follows:
July-Sept.  July-Sept.
1977       1978
1. Federal Government.........................$21,588,982  $18,838,738
2. State and Local Government..................  292,916     313,538
3. Industry and Individuals....................   778,265   1,738,630
4. Foundations................................. 1,229,726   2,243,567
5. Endowment Income.......................... 1,703,979     2,975,807
6. Program  Charges and Fees..................    31,320      21,000
TOTAL.................................$25,625,188  $26,131,280




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


99


Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, temporary investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. He also filed a
quarterly report on non-competitive purchases over $1,000 from
single sources.
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on University
Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following Gifts
sources. They were accepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Mrs. John G. Alexander, Ann Arbor, for the following funds:
H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research fund.............$  5,000.00
Vital  M argin  fund....................................  100.00
American Association for Automotive Medicine, Inc., Morton
Grove, Illinois, for the American Association for Automotive
Medicine Highway Safety fund.........................  12,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York, for
American Cancer Society funds........................  18,218.00
Frank E. Ammerman Estate, for the Frank E. Ammerman
Paleontology fund....................................  48,719.72
Ann Arbor University of Michigan Club, Ann Arbor, for
Athletic Scholarships fund............................  5,000.00
Arthur Andersen and Company, Chicago, Illinois, for the Paton
Accounting Center-Arthur Andersen Research Project fund  25,000.00
Mr. and Mrs. Ned S. Arbury, Midland, for the President Gerald
R.  Ford  Library  fund................................  5,000.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn, for Michigan
Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds...................  7,499.98
Robert Arthur Estate, for the Unrestricted fund............  21,955.42
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust, Flint, for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Development fund.............   10,000.00
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield, for
the Children's Leukemia Foundation funds..............  7,712.00
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit, for the Various Industrial
Sponsors-Colwell fund................................   5,000.00
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio, for the Manufacturing
Systems fund in the College of Engineering.............  50,000.00
Ralph S. and Bertha G. Euler Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the Ralph S. and Bertha G. Euler-Student Aid
fund................................................  12,781.10
General Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio, for the
Human Performance Laboratory fund.................    15,000.00
Ada A. Harris Estate, for the following funds:
James E. Harris Scholarship in Chemistry fund.........  10,000.00
Unrestricted  fund.....................................  5,000.00
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New
York, for the Electrical and Computer Engineering Special
fund................................................  9,800.00




100


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


Helen F. Kellogg Estate, for the Helen F. Kellogg Cardiology
fund................................................   25,000.00
Kresge Foundation, Troy, for the Law School-Law Library
Building fund........................................  750,000.00
Samuel H. Kress Foundation, New York, New York, for the
Samuel H. Kress Foundation Fellowship fund...........   12,500.00
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, for the Frederick
Novy Infectious Disease Research fund.................   5,000.00
Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation, New York, New York, for Josiah
Macy, Jr. Foundation funds...........................  44,730.00
Mallery Charitable Trust, Flint, for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Development fund......................     10,000.00
Marie A. Mehl Estate, for the Marie A. Mehl Research fund     8,389.53
Michigan Heart Asociation, Southfield, for Michigan Heart
Association funds.....................................  10,094.00
Monroe Auto Equipment Company, Monroe, for the Automotive Transportation Center fund.....................  10,000.00
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint, for the Mott Foundation Physical Education Facility-Flint Campus fund.. 6,000,000.00
National Foundation, White Plains, New York, for National
Foundation March of Dimes funds....................     22,500.00
National Foundation, Kent County Chapter, Grand Rapids, for
the National Foundation March of Dimes-Schmickel fund    17,466.40
Owens-Illinois, Toledo, Ohio, for the following funds:
Athletic  Scholarships  fund............................  2,000.00
Owens-Ilinois Fellowship in Materials and Metallurgical
Engineering  fund.....................................  10,440.00
Irving E. Palmquist, Lake Havasu City, Arizona, for the Walter
B. Sanders Memorial fund.............................    5,000.00
Pfizer Incorporated, Groton, Connecticut, for the Cardiovascular
Division of Internal Medicine fund.....................  15,000.00
Power Foundation, Ann Arbor, for the Power Foundation Exchange  Scholarship  fund..............................  7,550.00
Mr. & Mrs. Samuel Reubene, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the
School of Music  fund.................................  8,000.00
Helen Ruth Rossiter Trust, for the John G. and Helen R.
Rossiter  fund........................................  5,187.50
G. D. Searle and Company, Chicago, Illinois, for the Medicinal
Chemical Research-Counsell fund......................    5,000.00
Harry A. Towsley, M.D., Ann Arbor, for the President's fund  17,006.00
The Harry A. & Margaret D. Towlsey Foundation, Ann Arbor,
for the Towsley Foundation-Horticultural Therapy Program   fund.....................................      10,000.00
United Jewish Charities of Detroit, for the United Jewish Charities-Hebrew Literature Professorship fund..............  18,070.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mr. and Mrs. J. Reid Anderson, Los Altos Hills, California.
Anderson-Jacobson, Inc., comon stock, for the Pauline V.
and J. Reid Anderson Unitrust fund...................  99,900.00
Mrs. Hollis J. Colyer, Southfield. Philip Morris, Inc., common
stock,  for  the  President's  fund........................  7,412.50
Franklin M. Cunard, Jr., Detroit. Honeywell Inc., Pacific
Petroleum, and Westinghouse Electric common stocks, for
the Franklin Cunard, Jr. fund to participate in The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income fund............    7,371.88
Mr. and Mrs. F. Roland Sargent, Saginaw Amcord International
Minerals, McDonnell Aircraft, Schlumberger Corporation,
and Smith Kline, common stock, divided as follows:




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


101


Athletic Scholarships fund............................  1,000.00
Cardiovascular Division of Internal Medicine fund........  5,000.00
Glaucoma Research and Development fund.............   10,000.00
Law School-Law Library Building fund.................  14,850.32
Plastic Surgery Research fund.........................  10,000.00
Surgical Endocrine Research fund.....5................  5,000.00
K. M. Schroder, Battle Creek. Bill Knapp's of Michigan Inc.,
common stock; for the Bill Knapp's Founders Scholarship
fund...............................................   6,000.00
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Aeroquip Corporation, Gustin-Bacon Division, Lawrence, Kansas. One Cut-a-way model of a Venturi tube, for the Department of Mechanical Engineering
Chrysler Corporation, Detroit. A 1978 Dodge Omni, for the
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Sherwood Field, Carmel, California. An Antique Violin, for the
Stearns Collection of Musical Instruments
Mr. and Mrs. Leonard Kotarski, Farmington Hills. A pool table,
balls and cue sticks, for the Communicative Disorders Clinics
Douglas W. Marshall, Ann Arbor. A book entitled: The Brendan
Voyage, by Severin, for the Clements Library
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Pear, Ann Arbor. One electronic artificial
larynx, for the Communicative Disorders Clinics
James S. Reece, Ann Arbor. One copy of: The Controller's
Handbook, by Goodman and Reece, for the Graduate School
Library
James Stanley Schoff, New York, New York. Three volumes
entitled: Military Bibliography of the Civil War, by Dornbusch, for the Clements Library
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS                                                Personnel Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                      Appointments
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
William H. Borton, M.H.A., Associate Director for Hospital Services,
October 30, 1978
Robert Isaac Carr, Ph.D., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure
Robert Moyers, D.D.S., Ph.D., Professor of Dentistry, reappointed Director
of the Center for Human Growth and Development, September 1978
to July 1980
Patricia Ann O'Connor, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Orsamus M. Pearl, Professor Emeritus, appointed to participate in the
Freshman Seminar Program, 1978-79 academic year
Dennis Rigan, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Department
of Physical Education and the School of Education, Fall Term 1978
Wilbert Steffy, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Department
of Industrial and Operations Engineering, Fall Term 1978
Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., Ph.D., appointed Dean of the School of Business
Administration, for five years, and Professor of Business Economics, with
tenure, January 1, 1979




102


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


Promotions, etc. CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
John C. Drach, Associate Professor, without tenure, School of Dentistry,
and Associate Research Scientist in the Dental Research Institute, also
appointed Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure,
in the School of Pharmacy
Robert O. Goetz, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, also appointed
Assistant Dean in the College of Engineering
George W. Morley, M.D., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, also appointed Interim Chairman, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Committee     The following committee appointments were approved:
Appointments
School of Dentistry, Executive Committee
Dr. Raul G. Caffesse, for a three-year term, November 1, 1978 to October 31,
1981, vice Dr. Andrew Koran, III, term expired
Dr. Daniel T. Snyder, for a three-year term, November 1, 1978 to October 31,
1981, vice Dr. Robert E. Lorey, term expired
Lawyers' Club, Board of Directors
Dean Terrance Sandalow, for a two-year term, July 1, 1978 to June 30, 1980,
vice Professor Theodore J. St. Antoine, term expired
Associate Dean James J. White, for a one-year term, July 1, 1978 to June 30,
1979, vice Professor William J. Pierce, resigned
Mr. Austin Fleming, to succeed himself, for a two-year term, July 1, 1978
to June 30, 1980
Mr. Alan R. Kidston, to succeed himself, for a two-year term, July 1, 1978
to June 30, 1980
University Extension Service, Executive Committee
Professor Sheldon Siegel, to November 30, 1979, to complete the unexpired
term of Professor Paul H. Glasser, resigned from the University
University Press Executive Committee
Professor David Lewis, for a three-year term, September 1, 1978 to August 31,
1981, vice Professor J. Frank Yates, term expired
Professor Richard Dougherty, for a three-year term, September 1, 1978 to
August 31, 1981, vice Professor Kent Flannery, resigned
The University of Michigan-Flint Citizen Advisory Committee
David L. Beckwith, for a four year term
Henry Russel     The appointment of Francis A. Allen, Edson R. Sunderland
Appointed  Professor of Law, as the Henry Russel Lecturer for 1979 was
reported to the Regents and confirmed by them.
With respect to the committee appointments, Regent Power
mentioned that the composition of the University committees had
apparently not improved since she last brought this to the attention of the Executive Officers, and suggested that a more
conscious effort toward affirmative action be made.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978                          103
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS                                                   Personnel Reports
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                        Appointments
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Huda Akil, Ph.D., Psychiatry
Krishnaswami Alladi, Ph.D., Mathematics
Theresa Mary Allor, M.P.H., Nursing
Sushil K. Atreya, Ph.D., Atmospheric and Oceanic Science
Brenda S. Baker, Ph.D., Computer and Communication Sciences
Ronald S. Bogdasarian, M.D., Otorhinolaryngology, July 1, 1978
Darrell A. Campbell, Jr., M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1978
Gregory A. Daneke, Ph.D., Natural Resources
Barbara Jeanne Fields, Ph.D., History
Jeffrey Alexander Frankel, Ph.D., Economics
Seth I. Hirshorn, Ph.D., Political Science, UM-Dearborn
Fred Michael Hoppe, Ph.D., Statistics
Amy Harriet Koplow, M.F.A., Theatre, UM-Flint
William P. Kovalak, Ph.D., Aquatic Biology, UM-Dearborn
Elizabeth Joanne Leebron, Ph.D., Speech Communication and Theatre
John T. Lehman, Ph.D., Biological Sciences
L. Gaunce Lewis, Jr., Ph.D., T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor
of Mathematics
Dennis E. Lopatin, Ph.D., Dentistry
David Richard Marsh, Ph.D., Italian
Vonnie Cile McLoyd, Ph.D., Psychology
Chung Owyang, M.D., Internal Medicine
Daniel Joseph Pesut, M.S.N., Nursing
Virginia Elaine Rezmierski, Ph.D., Education, UM-Dearborn
Terry Earl Robinson, Ph.D., Psychology
Margaret Cool Root, Ph.D., Clasical and Near Eastern Art and Archaeology
and Assistant Curator in the Kelsey Museum of Anthropology
L. Ridgway Scott, Ph.D., Mathematics
Carl St. Clair, M.Mus., Music
Jon C. Swanson, Ph.D., Sociology/Anthropology, UM-Flint
Thomas Edward Toon, Ph.D., English Language and Literature
Tetsufumi Ueda, Ph.D., Pharmacology, Psychiatry, July 1, 1978
Susan W. Vince, Ph.D., Natural Resources
Stanley J. Watson, Jr., M.D., Psychiatry
George Yuk-Cheng Wong, Ph.D., Statistics
Cecile Cazort Zorach, Ph.D., Germanic Languages and Literature
Instructor
Dale Craig Bahr, M.S., Education
Victoria E. Beimel, B.S., Pharmacy
Mary Elizabeth Taylor Burkhart, M.A., Nursing
Aileen R. Burkholder, B.S., Pharmacy
Cynthia G. Cohen, M.S., Nursing
Sylvia Margaret Davies, Ch.B., Family Practice, August 1, 1978
Letha Y. Hunter, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1978
Shirley Jean Jones, M.S. Nursing
Martha Louise Keehner, M.P.H., Nursing
David V. Noonan, M.D., Anesthesiology
Michael Allen Palmen, M.D., Psychiatry, August 7, 1978




104


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


Jayant A. Patel, Pharm. D., Pharmacy
Sharon M. Ryan, M.S., Pharmacy
Marcia J. Sharp, M.D., Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Sung Ho Song, M.D., Radiology, October 1, 1978
Ellen Levy Stirling, B.S.N., Nursing, August 28, 1978
Michael H. Wince, M.A., Sociology/Anthropology, UM-Flint
Lecturer
Carolyn Ruth Aradine, M.S., Nursing, August 1, 1978
Marilynn E. Bell, D.A., Rhetoric and English Composition, UM-Dearborn
Eric R. Bolling, M.A., Sociology, UM-Dearborn
Katherine Newman Carlitz, M.A., Far Eastern Languages and Literatures
Hwa Chong, M.A., Education
Francelia Clark, Ph.D., English Composition Board, English Language and
Literature
John C. Countryman, Ph.D., Theater Arts, UM-Dearborn
James Davis Douglass, Jr., D.D.S., Dentistry
Harry W. Eckerson, Ph.D., Pharmacology
Charles Bruce Greyson, M.D., Psychiatry
Kathleen Mary Branson Hawley, B.S.N., Nursing
Beverly Jean Linde, M.S., Nursing
James H. Raphael, A.B.D., History, UM-Dearborn
Joan Ann Ready, B.S.N., Nursing
James H. Rose, Jr., Ph.D., Physics
Robert J. Rozof, M.S., Biological Sciences, August 15, 1978
Paul Walter Schrodt, A.B., Natural Resources
Louis Silvia, Jr., B.A., Social Sciences, UM-Dearborn
Mutsuko Endo Simon, M.A., Far Eastern Languages and Literatures
Charles Edward Strawn, Ph.D., Dentistry
Jeffrey Richard Thomson, M.A., Theatre and Theatre Production UM-Flint
Cornelius G. VanWyk, Jr., M.Arch., Architecture and Urban Planning
Kathryn Elisabeth Weidner, M.A., English Composition Board and English
Language and Literature
Marjorie Ziefert, M.S., Social Work
Visiting Professor
William A. Greene, M.D., Internal Medicine, Psychiatry
Karl Guenter Grossmann, Dr.Ing., Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, August 1, 1978
Karl W. Gruenberg, Ph.D., Mathematics
Hillel I. Shuval, M.P.H., Environmental and Industrial Health
Judith T. Shuval, Ph.D., Sociology
Visiting Associate Professor
Patricia Ann Bidol, Ph.D., Natural Resources
Elizabeth Crowell, Ph.D., Economics, Urban Planning, UM-Dearborn
F. Thomas Farrell, Ph.D., Mathematics
Donald Lee Inman, Ph.D., Natural Resources
Rodney F. Moag, Ph.D., Linguistics
Scott George Paris, Ph.D., Psychology
Vitalij V. Shevoroshkin, Ph.D., Linguistics and Slavic Languages and
Literature
Gunnar Kurt Svanberg, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 23, 1978
Visiting Assistant Professor
Michael John Bain, B.D.S., M.Sc., Dentistry, August 14, 1978
Richard Edward DeSimone, Ph.D., Chemistry




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


105


Hugh Anthony Gilmore, Ph.D., Anthropology
William Ervin Jurma, Ph.D., Speech Communication and Theatre
Glenn Cartman Loury, Ph.D., Economics
Ahmed Assem Abdel Rahman, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, UMDearborn
Eric Barry Ross, Ph.D., Anthropology
Jerald Sydney Schwartz, Ph.D., Computer and Communication Sciences
William Pang-yu Ting, Ph.D., Political Science
Steven Benjamin Webb, Ph.D., Economics
Alan S. Woodhull, Ph.D., Far Eastern Languages and Literatures
Yoshiaki Yamada, Ph.D., Dentistry
Visiting Lecturer
Helene Costes, Maitrise, Romance Languages
Susanne Dopper, B.A., English Language and Literature
Lucian Rosu, Ph.D., History
Alexander Hugh Urquhart, Ph.D., English Language Institute
Adjunct Professor
Francois Furet, Agrege D'Histori, History
John Douglas Peine, Ph.D., Outdoor Recreation, January 1, 1978
Adjunct Associate Professor
Harold Burr, M.S.E.E., Electrical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Robert C. Leighton, M.L.A., Natural Resources
Marlin Uluess Thomas, Ph.D., Industrial and Operations Engineering
Adjunct Lecturer
Krishnan Balagopalan, Ph.D., Physics, UM-Dearborn
Joseph S. Bobbio, Architecture and Urban Planning
Steven C. Down, M.S., Natural Sciences, UM-Dearborn
Ralph C. Francis, M.S., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Steven Paul Gray, M.S.E., Industrial and Operations Engineering
William Elliot Hobson, M.B.A., Policy and Control, Business Administration
Martha Jane Ives, B.S.N., Nursing
Thomas A. Kapral, B.A., Natural Sciences, UM-Dearborn
Gordon Fraser Kells, M.A., Physical Geography, UM-Flint
John Berton Kemp, J.D., Management, UM-Dearborn
Donald Carl Leverenz, Ed.D., Education, UM-Dearborn
Thomas Peterson, B.A., Chemistry, UM-Flint
Phyllis Eleanor Robinson, Ph.D., Education
Rudolph Saenz, Ph.D., Education
Lee McClelland Smith, M.A., Actuarial Science
Richard Leroy Smith, M.A., Education
David E. Spathelf, Ph.D., Education
Joseph Allen Wolf, Sc.D., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Adjunct Instructor
Elizabeth A. Hansen, M.A., Mathematics, UM-Flint
Richard Alan Neuman, Bach. of Arch., Architecture
Clinical Professor
Dietrich P. Blumer, M.D., Psychiatry




106


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


Clinical Associate Professor
Joseph Beninson, M.D., Dermatology
Thomas Keith Burnham, M.D., Dermatology
Alejandro Morales, M.D., Dermatology
Clinical Assistant Professor
Margaret C. Douglass, M.D., Dermatology
Thomas James Fleszar, M.S., Dentistry, August 15, 1978
William Peter Sorenson, M.S., Dentistry, September 11, 1978
Joel M. Zahler, D.D.S., M.S., Dentistry, September 6, 1978
Clinical Instructor
Kathleen Marie Andries, M.D., Internal Medicine
Kristeen Lynn Bernest, B.S., Dentistry
Joseph Peter Breloff, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 21, 1978
William Joseph Byland, D.D.S., Dentistry
Linda Mae Carney, B.S., Pharmacy
Gwendolyn Ann Chivers, B.S., Pharmacy
Clare R. Coles, Pharm. D., Pharmacy
Steven E. Cox, D.D.S., Dentistry
Thomas W. Crampton, B.S., Pharmacy
Dennis Delonnay, B.S., Pharmacy
Stanley Gordon Dienst, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1978
Jean M. Dombrowski, B.S., Pharmacy
Michael Wayne Easley, D.D.S., Dentistry
Judith A. Fedchenko, B.S., Pharmacy
Kathleen A. Gaither, B.S., Pharmacy
Bruce Genovese, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1978
Valerie T. Gentile, B.S., Pharmacy
John Albert Henke, M.D., Surgery, July 1, 1978
Shyo Itami, B.S., Pharmacy
Jamie L. Johnson, B.S., Pharmacy
Daniel William Kaercher, B.S., Pharmacy
David L. Kaiser, B.S., Pharmacy
Lori J. Kearney, B.S., Pharmacy
Cynthia A. Keyes, B.S., Pharmacy
Richard Lee Klump, M.S., Pharmacy
Kenneth Lee Koorhan, B.S., Pharmacy
Michael Eberhardt Krause, D.D.S., Dentistry, August 21, 1978
Patricia A. Ladd, B.S., Pharmacy
Mary Lou Loveland, B.S., Pharmacy
James T. Maher, B.S., Pharmacy
Colleen Ann Mahoney, M.S., Pharmacy
J. Patrick McCormick, M.S., Pharmacy
Kathleen S. Nance, B.S., Pharmacy
Charles H. Newman, B.S., Pharmacy
Howard Edgar Parker, B.S., Pharmacy
Lorraine D. Perkins, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Kathleen A. Polidori, B.S., Pharmacy
Susan M. Powers, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Peter A. Reilly, Pharm.D., Pharmacy
Earl M. Rogers, M.S., Pharmacy
Amy J. Rubadue, B.S., Pharmacy
Harvey Paul Rubin, B.S., Pharmacy
Bonnie R. Schrock, B.S., Pharmacy
Frank A. Smith, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1978
Sharon Stephens Smith, M.D., Internal Medicine, July 1, 1978




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


107


Ralph Snoke, D.D.S., Dentistry
James Dewey Stephens, B.S., Pharmacy
Terry W. Vich, B.S., Pharmacy
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                       Promotions
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Ronald M. Benson, from Assistant Professor to Clinical Associate Professor
of Psychiatry, July 1, 1978
Kathleen M. Brown, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor
of Geography
C. Dennis Bucko, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Surgery, July 1, 1978
Richard P. Carmon, from Lecturer to Visiting Lecturer in Music, September 1, 1978
Sister Geraldine Crowley, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Janne L. Dunham, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Mary L. Frey, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Martin G. Gold, Associate Professor, without tenure, also appointed Acting
Director of the Research Center for Group Dynamics, August 1, 1978
Sylvia Hacker, Lecturer in Community Health Programs, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Nursing
Margaret H. Hoft, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Mathematics
and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Ronald D. Holmes, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, July 1, 1978
Deh-Phone K. Hsing, from Assistant Professor to Lecturer in Mathematics
and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Mabel Hunsberger, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Russell D. Larsen, from Visiting Associate Professor to Associate Professor
of Chemistry, without tenure
Frederick J. Mauk, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor
of Geology and Mineralogy
Carol R. McCarthy, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Assistant Professor
of Nursing
Wanda D. Milburn, from Assistant Professor to Lecturer in Education
Brian P. O'Neill, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Neurology,
July 1, 1978
Mary K. Rhodes, from Assistant Professor to Lecturer in Mathematics and
Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Barbara S. Schwarte, from Visiting Lecturer to Lecturer in the English
Language Institute
Gwendolyn D. Smith, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Jacquelyn M. Smith, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Tija Spitsberg, to Lecturer in Humanities, UM-Dearborn
Richard A. Taketa, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Instructor in
Geography
Susan Trussler, from Visiting Assistant Professor to Instructor in Geography
W. Corrine Weiland, from   Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Nina H. Williams, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Merrill A. Wilson, from Clinical Instructor to Lecturer in Dentistry
Patrick M. Boarman's appointment as Professor of Economics, without
tenure and Chairman of the Department of Economics, UM-Flint, which
was reported at the July meeting, has been postponed until January 1, 1979.




108


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


Resignations     TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective on dates indicated
Robert E. Buchholz, Professor of Dentistry, August 31, 1978
Colin Campbell, Associate Dean of the Medical School and Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, September 8, 1978
Thomas Corbett, Associate Professor, Anesthesiology, July 28, 1978
Helen R. Desfosses, Associate Dean of College of Art, Sciences and Letters,
UM-Dearborn and Associate Professor of Social Sciences, August 15,
1978
Wendy E. Eynon, Instructor in Nursing, May 31, 1978
David W. Grisham, Lecturer in Education, May 31, 1978
Calvin W. Jenkins, Instructor in Physical Education, July 31, 1978
Arnold L. Kanter, Assistant Professor of Political Science, May 31, 1978
Lawrence Kass, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, August 31, 1978
Margot D. Morrow, Lecturer in the College of Literature, Science and the
Arts, August 20, 1978
Neil G. Morse, Instructor in Anesthesiology, August 24, 1978
Craig A. Robinson, Clinical Instructor in Dentistry, July 31, 1978
James D. Shaddan, Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, June 30,
1978
Margaret A. Speer, Instructor in Nursing, May 31, 1978
Janet C. Stubbs, Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
August 31, 1978
Robert E. Stone, Assistant Professor in Otorhinolaryngology, June 30, 1978
Kostas P. Vattsis, Lecturer in Biological Chemistry, September 30, 1978
Jordan Waldman, Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, June 30, 1978
Sandra L. Walls, Instructor in Nursing, July 31, 1978
Deceased
Mary Reynolds, Professor of Nursing, August 31, 1978
Leaves of Absence   One off-campus assignment, fourteen sabbatical leaves, one
cancellation of a sabbatical leave, twelve leaves of absence without
salary, two cancellations of leaves of absence without salary, five
medical leaves, and one retirement furlough were reported to the
Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of one faculty
member. The following was adopted.
M. E. W'egman,    MYRON EZRA WEGMAN, B.A., M.D., M.P.H., Dean Emeritus, John
Retirement G. Searle, Professor of Public Health, and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, completed eighteen years of distinguished service to
The University of Michigan on October 1, 1978. Appointed Dean of the
School of Public Health and Professor of Public Health in 1960, Professor
Wegman actively led the faculty of that School during a period of significant
expansion and strengthening to where it now is in the forefront of Schools
of Public Health worldwide. Throughout his tenure as Dean, he taught in
the area of International Health, and with appointment to the Medical
School faculty in 1961, regularly held rounds for medical students and
pediatric residents. His resumption of full-time faculty responsibilities allowed
him to strengthen the work of international health and to give needed
leadership to the School-wide program in Preventive Medicine and Public




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


109


Health. His publications range from basic work in pediatrics to those
focused on the fundamental problems of health policy and administration.
His service to the State, the University, and other bodies has been extensive,
and has included assignments as Chairman of the Governor's Action Committee, President of the Southeastern Michigan Comprehensive Health Planning Coucil, and special advisor to the University on the development of a
comprehensive health plan for faculty and staff of the University.
He continues to be active in public health work at the local, state,
national, and international levels. Starting as a pediatric consultant in Maryland, he served with the New York City Health Department and for eight
years as Secretary-General of the Pan American Health Organization. His
academic career has included appointments with the Yale University School
of Medicine, the Johns Hopkins Schools of Hygiene and Medicine, Cornell
University School of Medicine, Columbia University School of Public Health,
School of Tropical Medicine of the University of Puerto Rico and Chairman
and Professor of Pediatrics of the Louisiana State University School of
Medicine. A member of several medical and professional organizations,
Dr. Wegman has served as President of the American Public Health Association, Chairman of its Executive Board, and Chairman of the Editorial
Boards of the American Journal of Public Health and Pediatrics. He continues to be in demand as a consultant for various public health and related
organizational groups, among them the Pan American Health Organization,
the Resources for the Future, the World Health Organization and is currently serving on the Board of the Pan American Health and Education
Foundation.
His many and distinct contributions to public health and education have
been recognized by his election to honorary membership in the Pediatric
Societies of Equador, Peru and Argentina, his being named City College of
New York Class of 1928 Man of the Year, receiving the Townsend Harris
Medal for outstanding accomplishment from that same institution, the first
winner of the Walter P. Reuther Distinguished Service Award and induction
into the Johns Hopkins University Society of Scholars. In 1967, he was
awarded the Bronfman Prize for excellence in public health by the American
Public Health Association; and in 1974, he received the Sedgwick Medal
for distinguished service in public health from the same association.
Born in New York City, Professor Wegman completed his undergraduate
degree at City College of New York, earned his Doctor of Medicine from the
Yale University School of Medicine, and his Master of Public Health from
the John Hopkins University School of Hygiene. In a career extending over
four decades, as a pediatrician, public health practitioner, teacher, and
scholar, Dr. Wegman has served each of these roles with unusual effectiveness,
dedication, grace and wit.
The Regents now salute this disinguished educator for his outstanding
service to The University of Michigan by naming him the John G. Searle
Emeritus Professor of Public Health and Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases.
President Fleming commented that Professor Wegman has
been an outstanding citizen of the University over the years. He
has always been willing to help and his ideas have been useful
and constructive. Although he will remain in the community, the
University, by virtue of retirement, loses him as an active member
of the University community.




110


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


Financial Report


VII. DEATHS
Vice-President Shapiro reported the deaths of Dorothy Robinson, Associate Professor of Social Work and Burton Baker, Professor of Anatomy. The appropriate memorials will be submitted
to the Regents in November.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Vice-President Shapiro reviewed the financial report for The
University of Michigan for the year ending June 30, 1978. He
pointed out that the University has fallen behind in funding such
things as equipment, books, and supplies, therefore the expenditures for those items show a significant increase. The plant improvement portion of the budget remains seriously underfunded
because of inadequate support over the past several years.
Regent Nederlander asked if there has been an analysis made
of the positions that have not been filled for economic reasons for
the past several years.


Vice-President Shapiro responded that these figures would be
supplied to the Regents, and he felt there would be the need for
further cutbacks in order to support more adequately those areas
just mentioned.
Audit Report  Regent Baker moved to approve the certified audit report for
1977-78 by Arthur Young and Company. Regent Waters seconded
the motion and it was adopted.


Investments,
Schedule of
Investment Report


The Regents received a schedule of investments for the year
ending June 30, 1978.
The Regents received a report of investments as of June 30,
1978 which reflects the sale of Kraft, Incorporated debentures.


Administration  Regent Baker moved to authorize the renewal of the advance
Building from the investment of working capital fund for the administration
building. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was
adopted.


Health Insnrance
Coverage


Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the University to
increase the University support for Health Insurance coverage,
effective December 1, 1978. Regent Power seconded the motion
and it was adopted.


Renovations  Regent Power moved to approve the renovations to the Chemistry Building as recommended. Regent Nederlander seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker moved to approve proceeding with the renovation of the two elevators which service the Emergency Service
area within University Hospital. Regent Brown seconded the
motion and it was adopted.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


111


Regent Nederlander moved authorization to sell 40 acres of Real Property
land from the William H. McClure estate to Steven Gardocki and
C. D. Zeleski subject to the reservation of the mineral rights.
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The request for authorization to lease Camp Davis land in
Teton County, Wyoming, was deferred until November.
Regent Nederlander moved authorization to invoke the defense  Governmental
Immunity.
of governmental immunity in a medical malpractice case. Regent invoked
Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Chancellor Moran reviewed the site and program planning for Recreational
Facility,
the recreational facility at UM-Flint. He stated that the site, U-I-Flint
which was set by the campus plan in 1972, was rather small for
this building but the proximity to the University Center would be
a great advantage. He said the maximum seating capacity would
be about 2,000 and the building would include three or four classrooms for educational programming in the physical education area.
The Regents expressed their concern that the site was not
adequate for the proposed building, and asked if the architects
and campus planners were all in accord on this particular site for
the recreational facility.
Chancellor Moran responded that the orignal campus planners
had met recently to review the progress on the Flint campus and
still maintained that the proposed site was desirable for the
recreational facility. The planned facility is comparable to the
North Campus facility in Ann Arbor, but would have a lesser total
usage because of the smaller student population. The location
serves a number of purposes; it's proximity to the University
Center, therefore would better serve the student body which is a
commuting body; it does not mar the river view; and it would
form an entry courtyard to the University Center.
Regent Power then commented that it has been her observation
that Chancellor Moran and his colleagues have had a very careful
and thoughtful approach to the special needs of Flint, the University in it, and the student population and moved to approve the
site selection, the budget, and to authorize proceeding with the
design of the recreation building at UM-Flint. Regent Waters
seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regents Baker
and Dunn abstaining.
The Regents then heard comments from Michael Moore, Dan  Public Comments
Kildee, and Steve Stewart concerning South African investments.
Dwight Newman, an AFSCME representative, spoke on the
Housekeeping services at University Hospital. Professor Robert
Heywood, UM-Flint, then addressed remarks concerning the
retirement of President Fleming.
The meeting was adjourned at 5 P.M.




112


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


FRIDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1978
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Nederlander, Power and Waters. Chancellors Goodall and Moran and
Vice-Presidents Shapiro, Radock, Overberger, Johnson and VicePresident and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Dunn,
Laro, and Roach, and Vice-President Brinkerhoff were absent.
CESF Report  Professor Edward Gramlich presented the report by the Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF). He said
that compared to peer institutions the University's faculty salaries
have fallen behind 4% since 1972; and compared to consumer
prices, faculty salaries have fallen behind by 10 percentage points
over this same interval. Therefore, the committee recommended a
14.5% increase in faculty salaries for 1979-80.
Budget Request  Vice-President Shapiro reviewed the budget request for 1979 -or 197980 80. He indicated that although there was no fundamental disagreement with the recommendation by CESF for a 14.5%  salary
increase, the University was requesting 10.1% because it seemed
more reasonable and attainable to make up part of the lost ground
this year and part of it in subsequent years. The major elements
of the budget request for 1979-80 include compensation; economic
requests, such as utilities, book purchases, instructional equipment; and program revision requests.
President Fleming commented that in the past few years the
University has asked the legislature for what was perceived to
be the demonstrated need in terms of salaries, even though chances
of obtaining that goal were slim. Under the State's present system
of funding, only 60% of the salary request is covered, which means
that the University must depend upon its own resources to pay the
remaining 40%. Obtaining the resources to do this without raising
tuition or cutting back on personnel is a very difficult task. Therefore, the University is asking for a 10.1% salary increase with the
hope of reaching its goal in two or three years.
Vice-President Kennedy commented that the proposed budget
request attempts to be more realistic in terms of availability of
state resources, and takes some cognizance of the fact that the
State has other problems with which to deal. Hopefully, the request would be closer to what the State would recommend for
higher education.
Regent Baker moved to approve the State Operating appropriations request for 1979-80 for Ann Arbor, Dearborn, and Flint.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


113


Regent Waters moved to approve the capital outlay program  Capital Outlay
revision request for all three campuses for 1979-80, including the  1979-80
Medical campus. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the  AegredeLists
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Master of Architecture, April 1978
delete:
Carl Delbert Gilmore, with Distinction
School of Business Administration
Bachelor of Business Administration, April 1978
add:
Dennis Mark Winkler, with Distinction
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, August 1978
Anthropology
add:
Barbara Parker, B.A., Pennsylvania State University
Education
add:
Virginia Margarita DeGregorio, Licenciado, Universidata Catolica Andres
Bello, Venezuela
John Phillip Rashid, A.B., University of Detroit
Ronald Irving Sutliff, B.S., Michigan State University
Near Eastern Studies
add:
Mohammed S. Ghoddoussi, A.B., University of Washington
Master of Science in Engineering, August 1978
Chemical Engineering
add:
Steven Joy Provol, B.S. (Chem. Eng.), University of Illinois, UrbanaChampaign
Master of Arts in Library Science, December 1977
delete:
Leo Armando Salazar, B.A., California State University, Northridge




114


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, April 1978
add:
Daniel Joseph Bretz, with Distinction
Cresendi Athene Michels
Mark Christopher Morris, with Distinction
Robert Philip Zinn, with High Distinction, Honors in English
Bachelor of Science, April 1978
add:
Kenneth Michael Pozolo, with Distinction
correct to show:
Richard James Hile, with High Distinction, Honors in Computer &
Communication Sciences
Laura Marie Johnson, with Distinction; Honors in Computer & Communication Sciences
Chet David Lanctot, with Distinction; Honors in Computer & Communication Sciences
Linda Kaye Woodman, Honors in Computer & Communication Sciences
School of Nursing
Bachelor of Science in Nursing, August 1978
delete:
Elizabeth Bernice Davis, UM-Flint
Sarah Jean Jesse, UM-Flint
Bethany Lynn Pummill, UM-Flint
Juanita Wells, UM-Flint
correct to show:
Christy Vinter
School of Social Work
Master of Social Work, August 1978
correct to show:
Batol Rajabian-Yazdytanha, B.S., Tehran School of Social Work
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-DEARBORN
College of Arts, Sciences and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, April 1978
add:
Christopher Alan Schenkel, with Distinction
delete:
Deborah Lynn Dalrymple
correct to show:
Susan Helen Moll, with High Distinction
Bachelor of Science, April 1978
add:
Deborah Lynn Dalrymple




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


115


School of Engineering
Profesional Development in Engineering, April 1978
add:
Charles James Watson
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (Electrical Engineering),
April 1978
correct to show:
Demetrios Serakos, with High Distinction
School of Management
Bachelor of Science in Administration, April 1978
delete:
Marsha Daniels
Bachelor of Science in Administration, August 1978
add:
Ralph Gerald Beauvais
Margaret Mary Chouinard
Vicki Lynn Kuryla
Bachelor of Business Administration, August 1978
add:
Stephanie Anders, with Distinction
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the August, 1978
Commencement exercises.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
The Regents received a report on handicapped parking.
Mr. Norman Herbert, Investment Officer, and Mr. Chandler
Matthews, Controller, reviewed the report prepared to show the
status of University efforts to carry out the Regents' resolution
on the investment policy with respect to companies and banks
doing business in South Africa.
President Fleming commented that following receipt of a letter
from Mr. Dwight Newman, who noted AFSCME's disagreement
with the information reported by the Director of University Hospital regarding the Service Master contract, further study would
be undertaken and reported to the Regents at their November
meeting.
Regent Power moved to approve the discontinuance of the
B.S. (Pharmacy) Degree Program, as recommended. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.


Degrees Confirmed


Handicapped
Parking Report
South African
Investments
Housekeeping
Services, Hospital
B.S. (Pharmacy)
degree
discontinued


Regent Nederlander then commented that he had circulated Guidelines for
among the Regents certain guidelines for advisory committees to    Advisry Comaommittee to Selection
Committee




116


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


the Presidential Selection Committee. Ms. Kate Rubin, a Michigan
Student Assembly representative, has requested the opportunity
to speak before the Board before adoption of these guidelines.
Ms. Rubin listed the following student concerns regarding the
advisory committees: the level of student input provided in the
process; communication between the three advisory committees
and the relationship between the three committees and the Board
of Regents; access to all Regental candidate lists; competition
among the three committees resulting from separate committee
meetings; personal access to the candidates by all committees;
access to biographical information and resumes; provision of an
adequate budget to enable students to travel with the Regents to
interview candidates and for long distance telephone calls. The
students feel that personal access to the candidates by all groups
involved in the process is a very crucial issue. The guidelines speak
to some of their concerns but not to all of them. The students
want a sense of what their influence will be before they participate
in the process.
Professor Shaw Livermore, Chairman of SACUA, commented
that many faculty members do believe that some participation in
interviewing is a necessary and integral part of a careful search,
therefore he urged the Regents to consider some role for the
advisory committees in the interviewing process.
Regent Nederlander stated that basically these guidelines have
been submitted in order to begin the whole process. There will be
more guidelines issued in the future to clarify either certain points
that need further clarification or to take care of problems that
arise. The question of interviews presents a very difficult problem.
The Regents feel very strongly about the importance of confidentiality, therefore, initially interviews of candidates will be
conducted by the Regents. There might be a possibility later in
the process for involvement by a member of each committee.
Regent Baker moved to approve the following guidelines for
advisory committees to the Presidential Selection Committee.
Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted:
Guidelines for        GUIDELINES FOR ADVISORY COMMITTEES
Advisory Committees to Presidential  1. Each Advisory Committee may organize itself and meet as often as it
Selection  wishes.
Committee  2. There is no objection to any committees meeting with each other.
3. Each committee is requested to prepare a statement of recommended
future needs of the University and submit such statement by November 10, 1978.
4. All groups in the entire university community, including noninstructional
staff, organized labor, and the public, are also invited to submit in writing
to the Regents Selection Committee by November 10, 1978 what they
consider to be the future needs of the University.




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


117


5. On or before November 25, 1978, the Regents Selection Committee will
develop the criteria and characteristics desired in a university President,
based upon the needs of the University.
The criteria will be provided to each Advisory Committee and made
available to all groups and organizations.
7. After the criteria have been established, each Advisory Committee is
requested to submit names for preliminary consideration to the Secretary
who will prepare biographical information in standard form (so as to
treat all names alike), and then the name shall be sent to the committee
of origin. That committee would then decide whether to drop the name
or give it further consideration. If the particular committee decides to
give a name further consideration, it would be sent to the Regents Selection Committee which would then distribute the standard form biography
to the chairmen of all committees, but without designaion as to the source
of the recommendation.
8. Besides the Advisory Committees, any group, organization or person may
suggest names to the Regents Selection Committee. The Regents Selection
Committee can then decide whether or not they want to recommend that
name for further consideration and if so, would then send it to the
other committee chairmen.
9. If a name is suggested by the Regents Selection Committee, a biographical sketch will be sent to the chairmen of the three Advisory Committees. In this way, every committee will know the candidates being
considered and the Selection Committee and the Advisory Committees
would begin to have names to study.
10. Procedures should be developed by each Advisory Committee to insure
a limited distribution of biographical material. Because the disclosure of
a person under consideration would injure the viability of a candidate,
a revelation of a name under consideration will be considered a breach
of trust.
11. The Advisory Committees are encouraged to gather supporting evidence
for favored candidates and forward educational articles to the Regents
Selection Committee.
12. The Advisory Committees are not to conduct any interviews. This is the
prerogative of the Regents Selection Committee alone.
13. There shall be no ranking by the Advisory Committees.
14. The three committees are advisory only and the Board of Regents alone
has the power to appoint and cannot share this power.
15. Nothing herein should be considered acceptance of any precondition
established by any of the four Committees. No other arrangement, agreement or understanding exists between the Regents Selection Commitee
and the Faculty Alumni or Student Advisory Committees, other than
those listed herein.
16. The Regents reserve the right to modify, alter or amend any of these
Guidelines, should the Regents deem it necessary.
17. The Regents Selection Committee has established an office at 4010 LSA
Building, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109 (telephone 763-3223 and 763-3224).
Fred Wagman has been appointed Secretary to the Regents Selection
Committee.
Regent Nederlander indicated that all groups in the entire
University community, including the non-instructional staff, labor,
public and otherwise, are also invited to submit to the Presidential
Selection Committee by November 10 what they consider to be
the future needs of the University. He said this is in addition to
the advisory committee, and the Regents hoped that they would
proceed promptly to submit their views by that time.




118


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


Hospital  Dr. Jeptha Dalston, Director of University hospital, reported
Replacement Site on the campus master planning study by Albert Kahn Associates
regarding the hospital replacement site. He said that both internal
and external activity is continuing with the faculty committee,
hospital committees, the executive branch of State government,
the Office of Management and Budget, the Department of Public
Health, the local health systems agencies and Blue Cross for
further refinement and scope of the project.
Dr. Douglas Sarbach, Director of Planning, Resource and
Development of the Hospital, presented slides focusing on physical
definition of the project and an understanding of its architectural,
engineering and ultimate cost implications. He described and explained different concepts under study. He said the most important
affinities that had to be maintained were the relationship between
inpatient activities, diagnostic and treatment activities and outpatient activities. Office space should relate to all three. It is most
desirable to erect the buildings as quickly as possible in the least
disruptive fashion. Once the move to the new facilities takes place
then the old building would be available for renovation. A more
sharply defined report will be presented to the Regents next
month.
Affirmative  In response to a request by the Regents to study organizational
Action Report procedures of affirmative action at other institutions, Dr. Nellie
Varner, Chairman of the Committee, stated that there seemed to
be no most efficient or effective way of organizing affirmative
action. Primarily, it depends upon the organizational structure
of the institution. The committee felt that the recommendations
in the report would best lend themselves to an effective affirmative
action program at The University of Michigan.
The Regents commended Dr. Varner and Dr. Gwendolyn
Baker for their leadership of the program and were pleased with
their efforts to rectify the inequities that have been present.
President Fleming commented that the report would be discussed further with the Regents after review internally by interested parties. He asked for direction with regard to implementing the recommendations of the report. Since a new president
would be appointed within a year, it might be advisable to allow
that person to appoint an assistant, but it would mean delaying
the appointment.
Regent Waters suggested that the executive officers make a
recommendation to the Regents after the report has been discussed
internally.
Medical Service  Regent Power moved to authorize the revised implementation
Pans schedule for Medical Service Plans in the sections and departments




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


119


recommended. Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Power moved to approve the reappointments of chiefs
of service at University Hospital for the period July 1, 1978 to
June 30, 1979. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted.


Hospital; Chiefs
of Service
reappointed


The Regents approved the membership applications to the    Memberipto
Tmedical staff of Univvdtersity HospitintoheMdal.            Approed f
medical staff of University Hospital.                         Approved


The Regents approved the academic calendar for 1979-80 for
the Ann Arbor campus as follows:
FALL TERM 1979


Academic Calendar
1979-80,
Ann Arbor


Orientation
Labor Day (Holiday)
Registration
Classes begin
Thanksgiving recess 5:00 p.m.
Classes resume 8:00 a.m.
Classes end
Study Days
Examinations
Commencement
WINTER TERM       1980
Orientation
Registration
Classes begin
Vacation begins 12:00 noon
Classes resume 8:00 a.m.
University Honors Convocation
Classes end
Study Days
Examinations
Commencement
SPRING-SUMMER TERM 1980
Orientation
Registration (Full Term & Spr Half)
Classes begin
Memorial Day (Holiday)
Classes end (Spring Half)
Study Day
Examinations
Spring Half Term ends
Registration (Summer Half)
Summer Half Term classes begin
Independence Day (Holiday)
Classes end
Study Day
Examinations
Commencement
Full Term & Summer Half Term end


M-Th
M
Tu-Th
F
W
M
W
Th-Sa
M-Sa
Su


Sept 3-6
Sept 3
Sept 4-6
Sept 7
Nov 21
Nov 26
Dec 12
Dec 13-15
Dec 17-22
Dec 16


Su-NV
M-W
Th
Sa
M
F
Tu
W-F
Sa,M-F
Sa


Jan 6-9
Jan 7-9
Jan 10
Mar 1
Mar 10
Mar 28
Apr 22
Apr 23-25
April 26, 28-May 2
May 3


M-W
W
Th
M
W
Th
F-Sa
Sa
M-Tu
W
F
Tu
W
Th-F
Su
F


May 5-7
May 7
May 8
May 26
June 25
June 26
June 27-28
June 28
June 30-July 1
July 2
July 4
Aug 19
Aug 20
Aug 21-22
Aug 24
Aug 22




120              OCTOBER MEETING, 1978
Academic    The Regents approved the academic calendars for 1979-80
Calendars
1979-80, 1980-81  and 1980-81 for UM-Dearborn as follows:
Dearborn
FALL TERM     1978
Registration for classes............ Wednesday-Thursday, September 6-7
Labor Day, a holiday.......................... Monday, September 4
Work-internship period begins.................... Tuesday, September 5
CLASSES BEGIN............................. Monday, September 11
Thanksgiving recess................ Thursday-Saturday, November 23-25
Classes resume..........................  Monday, November 27
Last day of classes........................... Thursday, December 14
Study day................................  Friday, December 15
Examination period................. Saturday-Saturday, December 16-23
Work-internship period ends....................... Friday, December 29
Graduation...................................... Sunday, December 10
WINTER TERM 1979
Registration for classes................... Thursday-Friday, January 4-5
Work-internship period begins....................... Tuesday, January 2
CLASSES BEGIN.........................    Monday, January 8
Spring recess........................ Sunday-Sunday, March 4-11
Classes resume.................................... Monday, March 12
Last day of classes................................  Friday, April 20
Study day.......................................... Saturday, April 21
Examination period...................... Monday-Saturday, April 23-28
Work-internship period ends........................... Friday, April 27
Graduation........................................ Sunday, April 29
SPRING-SUMMER TERM        1979
Registration for classes; full term, spring half term
and spring one month mini-terms........... Thursday-Friday, May 3-4
Work-internship period begins........................ Monday, April 30
CLASSES BEGIN, full term and spring half term........ Monday, May 7
Memorial Day, a holiday............................. Monday, May 28
Last day of classes, spring half term.................... Monday, June 25
Study day, spring half term........................... Tuesday, June 26
Examination period, spring half term...... Wednesday-Friday, June 27-29
Registration for classes; summer half term
and summer one month mini-terms......... Thursday-Friday, July 5-6
Summer recess, full term courses...... Tuesday-Saturday, June 26-July 7
Independence Day, a holiday....................... Wednesday, July 4
CLASSES BEGIN, summer half term....................Monday, July 9
Classes resume, full term............................... Monday, July 9
Last day of classes; full term, summer half-term........ Friday, August 24
Studay day................................... Saturday, August 25
Examination period...................... Monday-Friday, August 27-31
Work-internship period ends........................ Friday, August 31
Graduation........................................ Sunday, August 19




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978                         121
FALL TERM 1979
Registration for classes............. Wednesday-Thursday, September 5-6
Labor Day, a holiday............................ Monday, September 3
Work-internship period begins.................... Tuesday, September 4
CLASSES BEGIN.............................. Monday, September 10
Thanksgiving recess................ Thursday-Saturday, November 22-24
Classes resume................................. Monday, November 26
Last day  of classes................................ Friday, December  14
Study day............................ Saturday, December 15
Examination period.................. Monday-Saturday, December 17-22
Work-internship period ends........................ Friday, December 28
Graduation....................................... Sunday, December 9
WINTER TERM      1980
Registration for classes................... Thursday-Friday, January 3-4
Work-internship period begins.................... Wednesday, January 2
CLASSES BEGIN................................. Monday, January 7
Spring recess............................... Sunday-Sunday, March 2-9
Classes resume..................................... Monday, March 10
Last day of classes.................................... Friday, April 18
Study day............................ Saturday, April 19
Examination period..................... Monday-Saturday, April 21-26
Work-internship period ends............................. Friday, May 2
Graduation.......................................  Sunday, April 27
SPRING-SUMMER TERM        1980
Registration for classes; full term, spring half term
and spring one month mini-terms........... Thursday-Friday, May 1-2
Work-internship period begins.......................... Monday, May 5
CLASSES BEGIN, full term and spring half term........ Monday, May 5
Memorial Day, a holiday............................. Monday, May 26
Last day of classes, spring half term.................. Monday, June 23
Study day, spring half term........................... Tuesday, June 24
Examination period, spring half term...... Wednesday-Friday, June 25-27
Registration for classes; summer half term
and summer one month mini-terms.... Monday-Tuesday, June 30-July 1
Summer recess, full term courses...... Tuesday-Saturday, June 24-July 5
Independence Day, a holiday............................ Friday, July 4
CLASSES BEGIN, summer half term................... Monday, July 7
Classes resume, full term............................... Monday, July 7
Last day of classes; full term, summer half term........ Friday, August 22
Study day........................................ Saturday, August 23
Examination period..................... Monday-Friday, August 25-29
Work-internship period ends......................... Friday, August 29
Graduation........................................ Sunday, August 17




122               OCTOBER MEETING, 1978
FALL TERM 1980
Registration for classes.............. Wednesday-Thursday, September 3-4
Labor Day, a holiday............................ Monday, September 1
Work-internship period begins................... Tuesday, September 2
CLASSES BEGIN.............................. Monday, September 8
Thanksgiving recess................ Thursday-Saturday, November 27-29
Classes resume................................... Monday, December 1
Last day of classes............................. Monday, December 12
Study day..................................... Saturday, December 13
Examination period.................. Monday-Monday, December 15-22
Work-internship period ends....................... Friday, December 31
Graduation..................................... Sunday, December 14
WINTER TERM      1981
Registration for classes................... Monday-Tuesday, January 5-6
Work-internship period begins...................... Monday, January 5
CLASSES BEGIN............................... Thursday, January 8
Spring recess.......................... Sunday-Sunday, March 1-8
Classes resume.............................     Monday, March 9
Last day of classes............................ Friday, April 17
Study day......................................... Saturday, April 18
Examination period..................... Monday-Monday, April 20-27
Work-internship period ends.........................  Friday, May 1
Graduation.......................................... Sunday, May 3
SPRING-SUMMER TERM         1981
Registration for classes; full term, spring half term
and spring one month mini-terms..... Thursday-Friday, April 30-May 1
Work-internship period begins......................... Monday, May 4
CLASSES BEGIN, full term and spring half term........ Monday, May 4
Memorial Day, a holiday............................ Monday, May 25
Last day of classes, spring half term.................... Tuesday, June 23
Study day, spring half term........................ Wednesday, June 24
Examination period, spring half term...... Thursday-Tuesday, June 25-30
Registration for classes; summer half term
and summer one month mini-terms.......... Thursday-Friday, July 2-3
Summer recess, full term courses.... Wednesday-Monday, June 24-July 6
Independence Day, a holiday........................... Saturday, July 4
CLASSES BEGIN, summer half term.................. Tuesday, July 7
Classes resume, full term.............................. Tuesday, July 7
Last day of classes; full term, summer half term...... Monday, August 24
Study day......................................... Tuesday, August 25
Examination period.................. Wednesday-Monday, August 26-31
Work-internship period ends...................... Friday, September 4
Graduation................................      Sunday, August 23




OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


123


FALL TERM 1981
Registration for classes................. Thursday-Friday, September 3-4
Labor Day, a holiday...................... Monday, September 7
Work-internship period begins.................... Tuesday, September 8
CLASSES BEGIN............................ Wednesday, September 9
Thanksgiving recess............... Thursday-Saturday, November 26-28
Classes resume.................................. Monday, November 30
Last day of classes.............................. Monday, December 14
Study day...................................... Tuesday, December 15
Examination period............. Wednesday-Wednesday, December 16-23
Work-internship period ends.................... Thursday, December 31
Graduation...................................... Sunday, December 13


The Regents received a report on Family Housing rates for
1978-79.
The Regents received a report on the status of the State Building Authority proposal.
The Regents received a report on the Bakke case.
Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the construction of
parking lots at UM-Dearborn, as recommended. Regent Waters
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker moved to approve a Regents' resolution commending James E. Knott who served as the chairman of the
College of Engineering's capital campaign. Regent Brown seconded
the motion and it was adopted. The resolution follows:
WHEREAS, The University of Michigan wishes to recognize the distinguished record of personal generosity and public service of Mr. James
Edwin Knott; and
WHEREAS, He has served diligently on many boards and committees, and
is a past Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Presidents Club of
the University; and
WHEREAS, He has been a tireless proponent of engineering and scientific
education in the State of Michigan; and
WHEREAS, He has served as National Chairman of the Capital Campaign
of the College of Engineering, and has successfully led the drive to raise more
than $20 million to increase the College's endowed funds, and to facilitate
its consolidation on the North Campus; now therefore be it
RESOLVED, That the Regents of The University of Michigan happily join
the citizens of the State of Michigan in this grateful tribute to Mr. James
E. Knott, and commend him warmly for his efforts on behalf of his alma
mater.
All the above transactions are by unanimous vote unless otherwise indicated.


Family Housing
Report
State Building
Authority
Bakke Case
Parking Lots
Approved,
UM-Dearborn
Regents'
Resolution
Adopted




124


OCTOBER MEETING, 1978


Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of September totaled $817.18.
The Regents adjourned to meet on November 16 and 17, 1978.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary
INDEX
Academic Calendar, 1979-80, Ann Arbor, 119
Academic Calendars, 1979-81, Dearborn, 120
Administration Building report, 110
Affirmative Action report, 118
Appointments, 101, 103; committee, 102
Audit report, 97, 110
Bakke Case, 123
Budget Request for 1979-80, 112
Capital Outlay Program, 1979-80, 113
CESF report, 112
Dearborn: parking lots approved, 123
Degrees: confirmed, 115, lists amended, 113
Expendable Restricted funds budget, 98
Family Housing report, 123
Financial report, 110
Flint: public television, 97; recreational facility, 111
Gifts, 99
Governmental immunity invoked, 111
Guidelines for Advisory Committees, Presidential Selection Committee, 115,
116
Health Insurance coverage, 110
Hospital; replacement site, 118; chiefs of service reappointed, 119
Investments, report, 110; schedule of, 110
Leaves of absence, 108
Medical Service Plans, 118
Memberships to Medical Staff, approved, 119
Promotions, 102, 107
Public Comments, 111
Real property, 111
Regents' Resolution adopted, 123
Renovations, 110
Resignations, 108
Russel, Henry, lecturer appointed, 102
State Building Authority, 123
Wegman, M. E., retirement, 108




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1978
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, and Roach. Chancellors Goodall and Moran
and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Overberger, Radock, Shapiro,
and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
Regents Power and Waters and Vice-President Johnson were
absent.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff and C. Edward Schwartz, Associate  Audit Report
Director and Financial Officer of University Hospital, presented
further background material explaining the status of accounts
receivable at the Hospital. The Regents commented that the report
was helpful in understanding the relationship between accounts
receivable and overall patient care revenues.
Mr. Philip Calder, representing the Arthur Young and Company, commented that progress was being made, but because of
the nature of the problem constant attention must be given to
remedy the situation.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented on several points raised
in connection with the Medical Service Plan audit report. He said
that it is now possible for the Medical Service Plan (MSP) billing
service to prorate bills among various services.
Regent Baker expressed his gratitude to the Arthur Young
Company for their service to the University.
Mr. A. B. Hicks, University Auditor, reviewed the six-months
report on University audits. He indicated that he was not satisfied
with the progress being made in certain areas, and would issue
another report to the Regents shortly.
Regent Roach commented that he viewed the internal auditors
as being responsible to the Regents; therefore, they must feel free
to communicate their concerns directly to the Regents.
Regent Dunn stated that the administration should seek
legislation which would remove personnel or security related audit
reports from discussion in a public meeting.


125




126


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


President Fleming explained that seeking this legislation was
not to be considered an effort to conceal any wrong doing, but
simply a way to protect an individual or a department from
damaging exposure until an allegation has been proven.
Diniidg Hall  Mr. Robert Hughes, Director of Housing, reviewed his request
for approval of a site and authorization to appoint an architect
for a dining commons for Hill area residence halls which had been
submitted and discussed in October. At that time the Regents
asked for additional information on the financing of the project
and alternatives to the recommended consolidation. Mr. Hughes
said that he now has received preliminary approval of a $4,980,000
loan from HUD to finance this project and energy conservation
programs in the dormitory system. He indicated that this was an
area in which substantial savings could be achieved. If the present
system of serving meals continues, housing costs would most certainly accelerate, thereby adding to the growing problem of keeping overall educational costs within the reach of students and their
families.
Charles Waterhouse, Tom Clinton, Gina Tonge, and Michael
O'Connor, who reside in the residence halls, spoke against consolidation. They felt this would be detrimental to the community
spirit of the dormitories. Students do not want to leave the dormitories for their meals. The savings per student would not be
substantial enough to warrant the inconvenience. They said a
commissary plan, having a central kitchen and trucking meals to
residence halls, would be more acceptable. Another suggestion
involved weekend consolidation rather than total consolidation.
In response to a question concerning security, Mr. Hughes replied that the planned site is heavily traveled now and is well
lighted. No more problems are anticipated than there are now.
The Regents acknowledged the genuine concern of the students
and asked for further analysis of alternatives including cost saving
figures.
Regent Roach suggested that perhaps some concerns the students have could be solved architecturally by having four smaller
(lining rooms in one facility and a covered walkway to the facility.
The Regents then decided to delay action until Friday.
Hospital Organi-  Dr. Jeptha Dalston reviewed the organizational structure of
zation Structure University Hospital.
Hospital  Dr. Douglas Sarbach, Director of Planning, Resource and
Planning Development of the Hospital, reviewed two sites on which tentative plans for the Hospital replacement facility were being considered. He explained the advantages of each and said that a
detailed description of what the University Hospital should be in




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


127


the future would be presented to the Regents in December. This
information would then be submitted to the State in January to
apply for a Certificate of Need.
Regent Baker expressed his concerns that the integrity of the
final site be protected; that maximum freedom be afforded the
Regents and the administration for effective use of the site in the
future; and that the circulation pattern not be limited.
Dr. Sarbach stated that at this point the North site configuration was favored because it allows for some logical expansion in
the future.
Dr. Jeptha Dalston reviewed the proposal for an expanded  Burn Center
Burn Center. He stated that the proposal would consolidate into a 
30-bed burn care program the existing ten acute burn care beds at
University Hospital, the fourteen rehabilitation beds at Chelsea
Community Hospital and the six acute care beds at St. Joseph
Mercy Hospital. The facility will provide the comprehensive care
required by the critically burned patient which involves a multidisciplinary team of specially trained personnel. The Burn Center
will also serve the state and the nation as a model facility for
teaching all phases of burn care and for research. He also noted
that the capital involved would be raised by the National Institute
for Burn Medicine in collaboration with the University.
In response to a question from Regent Nederlander concerning
the sources of fund raising, Vice-President Radock said that the
National Institute for Burn Medicine has many of its own sources.
This type of project has wide support throughout the state and
the country. Many constituencies which support this type of
project would not support general University projects. The problem of duplication of fund requests would be solved by careful
monitoring of all requests to foundations and major corporations.
Regent Nederlander stated that it should be understood that
design and construction will not commence until the necessary
funds are on hand or pledges confirmed.
Dr. Dalston commented that Vice-President Brinkerhoff has
made it very clear that the necessary funds must be available
before the project can proceed.
The Regents then discussed the location of the facility. They
agreed that careful attention must be given the placement of the
facility on the site whether it is integrated or independent in
nature.
Regent Roach moved to approve the program for an expanded
Burn Center program with the clear understanding that it is not
the intent of the motion to approve the location or to determine




128


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


whether it should be an integrated or independent unit. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Public Comments  The Regents heard comments concerning the Michigan Union
report from Larry Pulkownik, Jeff Lebow, Eric Arnson, and Dave
Brownlee. On the whole they agreed with the recommendations of
the report, with the exception of continuing the hotel operation.
Bob Gurss, Janice O'Neal, Jennie Patchen, and Alan Levy
spoke on the question of tenure for Professor Joel Samoff; and
Professors Arthur Schwartz and Thomas Weisskopf commented
upon the question of tenure as a whole.
Marti Bombyk spoke on the Graduate Employees Organization. Larry Tolley and Bill Johnston commented on family housing
rates.
Closed Meeting  Regent Dunn then moved to close the meeting for the purpose
of discussion of applications for the position of personnel director.
These applicants have expressed their wish for a private discussion.
Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted with
Regents Bakers, Brown, Dunn, Laro, Nederlander, and Roach
voting affirmatively.
The meeting was adjourned.
The meeting reconvened at 8:00 P.M.
SACUA    The members of the Senate Advisory Committee on University
Affairs (SACUA) discussed their concerns regarding interview
participation in the presidential selection process; faculty salaries;
the relationship of research and instruction; and supportive activities in which the faculty can impress upon citizens of the State
the value of having an internationally-recognized university.
The meeting was adjourned at 9:30 P.M.
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1978
The meeting reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Brown, Dunn, Laro,
Nederlander, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors Goodall and Moran
and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Overberger, Radock, Shapiro,
and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
Regents Baker and Power and Vice-President Johnson were
absent.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of October 19 and 20, 1978 were
approved with certain specified changes.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978                         129
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, temporary investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations.
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on University
Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS                                                Gifts
Mary E. O. Adams Estate, for the Henry Carter Adams Scholarship in Economics fund................................$ 14,942.57
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the Engineering
Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund.................... 10,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York, for American  Cancer Society  funds................................  16,042.00
American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund, Washington, D.C., for American Chemical Society funds........... 84,000.00
Atmospheric and Oceanic Science Departmental Equipment
fund.............................................  500.00
Chemistry Department Special fund......................  3,000.00
Geology Department Special fund........................  500.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn, for the Michigan Chapter Arthritis Foundation funds.................. 14,999.96
Atlantic Richfield Foundation, Los Angeles, California, for the
following funds:
Atlantic Richfield Foundation fund.......................  2,000.00
College of Literature, Science & the Arts fund............  200.00
Electrical and Computer Engineering Special fund..........  1,000.00
Minority Engineering Program fund.....................  1,000.00
Women  in  Engineering  fund.............................  1,000.00
Carnegie Corporation of New York, New York, for the Carnegie
Corporation-Lelong  fund...............................  17,600.00
Champion Spark Plug Company, Toledo, Ohio, for the Automotive Transportation Center fund......................  5,000.00
Gustav A. DePolder Estate, for the Gustav A. DePolder fund.. 52,366.32
E. I. DuPont DeNemours and Company, Wilmington, Delaware,
for E. I. Dupont DeNemours-Haskell Laboratory Fellowship
fund..................................................  10,000.00
David G. Einstein Estate, to establish the Aaron and Rose Einstein
Student Loan fund.....................................  9,155.11
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York, for the
following funds:
Chemical Engineering Special fund......................  1,500.00
Exxon Education Foundation Grant fund.................  6,500.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund...................  3,000.00
Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering Scholarship and
Discretionary   fund.....................................  4,000.00
Vital  M argin   fund.....................................  150.00
Firestone Tire and Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio, for the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company Industrial and Operations
Engineering  fund.......................................  35,000.00
Ford Motor Company, Milan, for the Macromolecular Research
Center  fund...........................................  5,000.00




130


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


Genessee Merchants Bank and Trust Company, Flint, for The
University of Michigan-Flint Campus Development fund.. 10,000.00
Prof. and Mrs. John R. Griffith, Ann Arbor, for the following
funds:
Program in Hospital Administration Alumni fund........ 10,000.00
University Musical Society fund......................  100.00
WUOM    fund.........................................    100.00
Herrick Foundation, Detroit, for the following funds:
University of Michigan-School of Business Administration
fund..................................................  100,000.00
University of Michigan-School of Dentistry fund.......... 100,000.00
Martin M. Holben Estate, to establish the Martin M. Holben
Scholarship fund.......................................  15,650.00
INCO Limited, New York, New York, for the International Nickel
Company  Fellowship  fund..............................  8,400.00
JDR The 3rd Fund, Inc., New York, New York, for the History
of Art Special Fellowship fund..........................  7,500.00
Key International Inc., Southfield, for the following funds:
Athletic  Scholarships  fund...............................  1,000.00
President's fund...........................            1,000.00
Joel D. and Shelby M. Tauber Scholarship in Business fund  1,500.00
Joel D. and Shelby M. Tauber Scholarship in Law fund....  1,500.00
Marguerite Kolkloesch Estate, for the Corneal Services Discretionary  fund...........................................  29,436.92
Lincoln National Life Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana, for the
A. J. McAndless Scholarship fund........................  8,600.00
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York, for the
Henry Luce Foundation-Cole fund...................... 11,000.00
Lincoln Health Care Foundation, Grosse Pointe, for the Medical
School Student Aid  fund................................  26,091.00
Michigan Lions Eye Bank, Ann Arbor, for the Michigan Lions
Eye  Bank  fund........................................  5,840.00
John A. McCarthy Foundation, Los Angeles, California, for the
Law School-Law Library Building fund.................. 50,000.00
Michigan National Bank, Flint; for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Development fund........................ 10,000.00
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Detroit, for the President
Gerald  R. Ford  Library  fund............................  10,000.00
National Foundation, White Plains, New York, for the National
Foundation March of Dimes-Olson fund.................  6,500.00
Puritan-Bennett Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri; for the following funds:
Analgesic  Research  fund................................  2,000.00
Internal Medicine Pulmonary Diseases Research fund......  5,000.00
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York, for the Rockefeller Foundation-Bornstein fund........................ 31,500.00
Rockwell International, El Segundo, California, for the Rockwell International Graduate Fellowship fund.............. 26,000.00
John G. Searle Estate, for the John G. Searle Professorship in
Pharmacy  fund........................................  500,000.00
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana, for the Samuel D.,
Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan fund................ 20,640.00
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York, for the Alfred
P. Sloan Foundation-Burns fund........................  9,900.00
Supreme Council 33RD Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation
of the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, for the Scottish Rite
Schizophrenia Research-Gnegy fund.....................  5,750.00




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


131


TRW, Inc., Warren; for the Various Industrial Sponsors-Colwell
fund..........................................         5,000.00
Uniroyal Incorporated, Oxford Management and Research Center,
Middlebury, Connecticut, for the Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund...............................  5,000.00
United Airlines, Chicago, Illinois, for the Physical Stress Research
fund............................................  15,00.00
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc.,
New York, New York, for United Cerebral Palsy funds....  24,068.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, for the following funds:
Richard C. Schneider Neurosurgical fund..................  300.00
Upjohn Company-Higuchi fund.........................   5,000.00
Upjohn Company-Ho fund.............................. 6,500.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mr. and Mrs. Frederick R. Keydel, Grosse Pointe Farms. Pet,
Incorporated common stock, for the Law School fund.....  5,648.75
Mr. and Mrs. Ame Vennema, Houston, Texas. Schlumberger
Limited, common stock, for the Ame & Catherine Vennema
Professorship in Engineering fund....................... 110,173.44
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Prof. James L. Franklin, Jr., Ann Arbor. A book entitled:
Bibliografia DiPompei Ercolano E Stabia, by F. Furcheim;
for the Department of Classical Studies
Roderick McDonald, Ann Arbor. Two books entitled: Jazz
Records, Volumes 1 and 2, 1897-1942, by Brian Rust; for
WUOM
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS                                                Personnel Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                     Appointments
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Marvin A. Cohen, J.D., B.S., Administrator for Psychiatric Hospitals, University Hospital, December 18, 1978
Teddy E. Dielman, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and
Health Professions Education, without tenure, October 1, 1978
Armando A. Ghitalla,, B.S., Professor of Music, with tenure, September 1,
1978
Richard J. Oszustowicz, Associate Director of Finance, University Hospital,
January 15, 1978
William B. Palmer, Professor Emeritus, appointed to serve as a faculty
counselor in the Department of Economics, September 1, 1978 to
April 30, 1979
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                  Promotions, etc.
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Floyd A. Bond, Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration
and Professor of Business Economics, appointed the Donald C. Cook
Professor of Business Economics and Dean Emeritus of the Graduate
School of Business Administration, January 1, 1979
Errol E. Erlandson, Assistant Professor of Surgery, also appointed Assistant
Dean for Student Affairs, Medical School, November 17, 1978




132


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


Dick A. Leabo, Professor of Statistics, appointed the Fred M. Taylor Endowed Distinguished Professor, September 1, 1978
Paul R. Lichter, Professor of Ophthalmology, also appointed Chairman of
the Department of Ophthalmology, November 17, 1978
Maria J. Paluszny, Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Assistant Director
and Chief of Clinical Services at the Institute for the Study of Mental
Retardation and Related Disabilities also apponted Assistant Dean for
Admissions, Medical School, November 17, 1978
Committee     The following committee appointments were approved:
Appointments
Committee on American Institutions Lectureship and Professorship
Professor Joseph Vining, to June 30, 1980, to complete unexpired term of
Professor William J. Pierce, resigned
Professor Francis A. Allen, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978 to June 30,
1981, vice Professor Alfred F. Conard, term expired
Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Commitee
Professor James A. Chaffers, for Winter Term, 1979, vice Professor Katharine
Warner, on leave
Friends of the Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
Mrs. Gertrude V. Huebner, to succeed herself, for a three-year term, July 1,
1978 to June 30, 1981
Mr. A. B. Smith, Jr., to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978
to June 30, 1981
Mr. James Fairbairn Smith, to succeed himself, for a three year term, July 1,
1978 to June 30, 1981
Mr. Neil Staebler, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978 to
June 30, 1981
Mr. Hobart Taylor, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978
to June 30, 1981
Mrs. Harry Towsley, to succeed herself, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978
to June 30, 1981
Mrs. Nancy Quirk Williams, for a three-year term, July 1, 1978 to June 30,
1981, vice The Honorable G. Mennen Williams, term expired
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Professor James J. White, for a term to begin immediately to June 30, 1982,
vice Professor Ernest Goldschmidt, resigned.
Two Professor-  The Regents approved the creation of the James V. Campbell
ships  pproved  and Thomas M. Cooley Professorships of Law. Regent Nederlander abstained from voting.
Personnel Reports V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
Appointments        NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Lucy Marie Brand, M.S., Nursing
Liselotte Hoelzel-Seipp, M.S.N., Nursing
Sue Ellen Lee, M.S.N., Nursing, UM-Flint
Zenaida Spangler, M.S.N., Nursing




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


133


Lecturer
Joanne Alice Beckman, M.S., Nursing, September 9, 1978
Helen Isaacson, M.A., English Composition Board, English Language and
Literature
Florence I. Mazian, M.A., Behavioral Sciences, UM-Dearborn
Randee Sorscher, M.A., Humanities, UM-Dearborn
Visiting Professor
S. Pillai Agesthialingom, Ph.D., Linguistics
Suha Selamoglu, M.S.M.E., Mechanical Engineering, September 9, 1978
Visiting Assistant Professor
Richard Block, Ph.D., Speech Communication and Theatre
Adjunct Professor
William Don Becher, Ph.D., Electrical and Computer Engineering
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Mushira Abou-Baker Eid, Ph.D., Arabic, UM-Flint
James Robert Falender, Ph.D., Chemical Engineering
Keith Edward Stanovich, Ph.D., Psychology
Adjunct Lecturer
Andrew Brown, Jr., M.S.M.E., M.B.A., Professional Engineering, UMDearborn
Donna A. Cash, M.A., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Phyllis J. Dukes, Ph.D., Behavioral Sciences, UM-Dearborn
Phillip D. Lavender, M.B.A., Industrial and Systems Engineering, UMDearborn
Roger Bruce Marshall, M.B.A., Industrial and Systems Engineering, UMDearborn
Denis Litchfield Royston, BASc., Professional Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Stephen Warren Schar, M.U.P., Geography, UM-Flint
Gayle L. Ulrich, B.A., Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Clinical Assistant Professor
Marek Andrew Stawiski, M.D., Dermatology, August 1, 1978
Clinical Instructor
Daniel B. Cohn, B.S., Pharm., Pharmacy
Bruce Daniel Schweiger, M.D., Psychiatry, August 1, 1978
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF Promotions, etc.
Effective September 1, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Andrew M. Bailey, from Assistant Professor to Lecturer in Mathematics
and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Carl R. Batlin, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Finance, November 1,
1978
Donald I. Bosshardt, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Finance,
Octobe 1, 1978
Mary E. Carroll, from Lecturer to Visiting Assistant Professor of Political
Science
Riad N. Farah, from Clinical Instructor to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Surgery, July 1, 1978




134


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


Robert O. Lefever, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Family Practice
Joyce Zuck, from Assistant Professor to Lecturer in the English Language
Institute and in Education
Resignations    TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective on dates indicated
Madge Attwood, Assistant Professor of Education, November 3, 1978
Aileen R. Burkholder, Instructor in Pharmacy, October 16, 1978
James A. Doyle, Associate Professor of Botany and Associate Curator,
Museum of Paleontology, June 30, 1978
Mark K. Enns, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, August 31,
1978
Linda A. Grinstead, Assistant Professor of Nursing, May 31, 1978
Brian P. O'Neill, Assistant Professor of Neurology, September 25, 1978
Joel R. Saper, Assistant Professor of Neurology, October 31, 1978
One sabbatical leave and one medical leave of absence were
reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
No retirement memoirs were submitted to the Regents this
month.
VII. DEATHS
Secretary Kennedy reported to the Regents the deaths of Guy
Palazzola, Associate Dean of the School of Art and Mary
Reynolds, Professor of Nursing. The following memorial statements were adopted:
G. Palazzola   It is with deep regret that the Regents learned of the death of GUY
Memorial PALAZZOLA, Associate Dean of the School of Art, on October 28, 1978.
St aement    Guy Palazzola was born in Kalamazoo and grew up in Detroit. He
attended the Art School of the Society of Arts and Crafts and received its
diploma in Painting. Subsequently he taught on its faculty and served as
Assistant to the Director before joining the faculty at The University of
Michigan in 1957. He was named Associate Dean in the School of Art in
1975 and carried on extensive television broadcasting which has earned him
an international reputation. His work in this medium carried his views on
art and its techniques to countless thousands across the country in a direct
way which had enormous appeal.
His gifts as a teacher were widely known and his classes in drawing and
painting were regularly oversubscribed. In 1973 he received the University's
Distinguished Achievement Award for outstanding teaching and research.
As a practicing artist Dean Palazzola has been a consistent award winner
since his student days in the late 30's.
His paintings have always been characterized by virtuosity and a compelling sense of the respect he held for the traditional values in composition
and technique. These were qualities which he maintained in his teaching
and which gave him the unique character he possessed as a teacher.
Dean Palazzola worked tirelessly for the improvement of the educational
opportunities for students in the School of Art. The example he set by his




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


135


creative work, his lecturing and his own family life set the highest standards
for his students as well as his colleagues. He loved art, teaching and the
School. His place in our esteem and affection has grown more enduring over
the years. The achievements in art and education that he produced will
remain a striking monument to him. In losing Guy Palazzola the University
has lost one of its most articulate spokesmen for the visual arts and one
of its most trusted friends.
The Regents join the entire University community in extending deepest
sympathies to his family.
The Regents of the University acknowledge with deep sorrow the death  M. Reynolds
of MARY REYNOLDS, Professor Emeritus of Nursing, on September 1,       Memorial
1978, at the age of 56.
Born on January 13, 1922 in Albany, New York, Ms. Reynolds attended
Skidmore College before transferring to Cornell University-New York Hospital School of Nursing, where she received a diploma in nursing in 1946.
She received her Bachelor of Science in Nursing degree from Russell Sage
College in 1952 and her Master of Science in Education degree from Indiana
University in 1953.
Ms. Reynolds practiced nursing at Northern Westchester Hospital, White
Plains, New York, in the office of Dr. H. J. Hoerling, Valatie, New York,
and at Albany Hospital, Albany, New York, prior to assuming the position
of clinical instructor at Union University School of Nursing, Albany, New
York, in 1949. She became Director of Nursing Education at Mount Sinai
Hospital School of Nursing, Cleveland, Ohio, in 1953. She joined the School
of Nursing faculty in 1957 as Assistant Professor of Nursing and was promoted to Associate Professor in 1962 and to Professor in 1966.
Her colleagues in the School of Nursing long respected Ms. Reynolds as
an excellent teacher of medical-surgical nursing. Her students esteemed her
particularly for her emphasis on the humanistic values as well as the scientific
basis of nursing. She shared her nursing expertise by presenting numerous
papers at professional meetings and through several publications in nursing
journals. She served on many School, University, and professional committees,
always furthering the work of the committees through her thoughtful contributions.
In 1975 in recognition of her contributions to the School of Nursing
and the nursing profession, Ms. Reynolds received the Award for Excellence
in Nursing from the Rho Chapter, Sigma Theta Tau, and the Distinguished
Alumni Award from The University of Michigan Medical Center Alumni
Society.
The Regents now extend their sincerest sympathies to her family and join
the University community in mourning her passing.
President Fleming    reported   the sudden death of Fredrick        F. Davids
Davids, Director of the Department of Safety. He commented that        Death Reported
Mr. Davids helped the University through an extremely difficult
period and was a very good influence on this campus. A great
many students came to regard him as a real and trusted friend
who wanted to help them with their problems. He will be remembered with great affection, and the University owes him a great
deal of thanks for his contributions to the University.




136


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


VIII. DEGREES
Degrees, Lists  On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree list:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, August 1978
Education
add:
Mary Melissa Battjes, A.B., Western Michigan University
Sally Ann Hollmeyer, B.S.Ed., University of Cincinnati
Gary Steven Hopps, B.S.Ed.
Barbara Black Long, B.S., Michigan State University
Psychology
add:
Lewis E. Okun, A.B., Yale University
Master of Public Administration, August 1978
add:
Dolores Apap Kefgen, B.A., Oakland University, A.M.
Master of Science, August 1978
Education
add:
Andrea Swan Williams, B.S., Western Michigan University
Natural Resources
add:
Janice Marguerite Skadsen, B.S., Case Western Reserve University
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering, August 1978
Mechanical Engineering
add:
Gary Paul Hays
Material and Metallurgical Engineering
add:
Mark Anthony Ulfig
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 1977
add:
Marilyn Emilia Maurer
Bachelor of Arts, April 1978
add:
Cynthia Ann Piechowiak, with High Distinction; High Honors in
English




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


137


correct to show:
Peter Lawrence Canzano, with High Distinction; High Honors in Spanish
Gary Alan Kozma, with Distinction; High Honors in Psychology
Bachelor of Arts, August 1978
add:
Michele Ann Ballard
Pamela Marie Gibson
Alan Mark Golden, with Distinction
Leslie Cheva Gottlieb, with Distinction
David Anthony Kadela, with Distinction
Joseph William Loney, with Distinction
Victor Lerun Marsh
Susan Jane Van Der Weele
correct to show:
Laura Anne Athens, with High Distinction; Honors in Psychology
Thomas George Bombelles, with Distinction; Honors in English
Laureen Vivian Gibson, with Distinction; Honors in English
John Robert Thomas, with High Distinction; High Honors in Political
Science
Jacqueline Louise Urla, with High Distinction; High Honors in Anthropology
William Cooper Wachob, Jr., with Distinction; Honors in Near Eastern
Studies
Robin E. Yost, with Distinction
Bachelor in General Studies, April 1978
add:
James Anthony Berra
Paul Allan Eisenstein, with Distinction
Bachelor in General Studies, August 1978
add:
Edward James Maciak
Leroy Peter Mehl, with Distinction
Gail Mary Quaderer, with Distinction
Will Davis Stanford, with Distinction
Raymond J. Zale, Jr., with Distinction
Bachelor of Science, April 1978
add:
Michael Elliott Danzig, with Distinction
Charles Alan Hilla
correct to show:
Max Ivan Bidle, with High Distinction; Honors in Computer and Communication Sciences
Bachelor of Science, August 1978
add:
Camille Preeti Kelshiker
Randee Lynn Kushner
Catherine Ann Lenz, with Distinction
Jean Carol Smookler, with Distinction
Michael Tilchin, with Distinction




138


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


Doctoral
Candidates, Lists
Approvde
Financial Report
Schedule of
Revenues and
Expenditures
Real Property


Ronald Lee Vander Laan, with High Distinction; Honors in Cellular
and Molecular Biology
correct to show:
Laura Lee Havens, with Distinction
Carol Rose Kahn, with Distinction
The Regents approved the list of doctoral degree candidates,
as recommended by the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, for the December 1978 Commencement exercises.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
The Regents received a detailed financial report for 1978.
The Regents received a schedule of total University revenues
and expenditures from 1968-69 to 1977-78.
Regent Roach moved to authorize the University to lease
Camp Davis land in Teton County, Wyoming for oil and gas
exploration to Chevron, U.S.A., Inc., as recommended. Regent
Laro seconded the motion and it was adopted. The lease is subject
to the following terms and conditions:
The attached lease dated September 1, 1978, by and between The
University of Michigan, Lessor, and Chevron U.S.A. Inc., Lessee, covering
the S2NEV4, and the NE~ISEI4 of Section 5, Township 38 North, Range
115 West, Teton County, Wyoming, and containing 120 acres more or less
is subject to the following terms and conditions:
Lessee agrees:
1. That all damages caused by Lessee's drilling, exploration, production or
other operations to Lessor's gates, cattle guards and other installations
will be repaired.
2. To back-fill, neatly grade an reseed all seismic shot holes and other such
disturbances of the surface.
3. That no seismic shots will be placed within 100 yards of Lessor's existing
buildings and to repair any damage to Lessor's existing buildings resulting from seismic shots.
4. That no seismic shooting will occur during the Camp Davis academic
session (June 20th to August 20th).
5. To notify caretaker 24 hours before seismic shooting occurs.
6. Not to pollute the Hoback River from operations or installations on
Camp property.
7. To restore sites as far as possible, to the original state.
8. That pumps, storage facilities and other above ground production equipment will be concealed within the smallest possible aesthetically pleasing
structure. Said structure will be colored to blend with the summer background, and will be reasonably camouflaged from sight from both the
Camp and the highway.
9. That all pipes and power lines will be buried and that no power line
poles will be erected.
10. That no drilling will occur on the Northeast quarter of the Southeast
quarter of Section 5, Township 38 North, Range 115 West.




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


139


11. That no drilling will occur at night during the period from June 20 to
August 20.
12. That the Department of Geology of The University of Michigan will be
provided with the following from drilling operations on Camp property
as soon as Lessee determines that release of the following will not injure
Lessee's interest:
A. Cuts of all chip samples in sequence.
B. Slabs of all core taken.
C. Copies of all logs of wells.
D. A. through C. to be delivered to Camp Davis at Lessee's expense
upon completion of drilling and study.
13. That all drill holes, if and when abandoned, will be plugged and the tops
will be cut off and concealed below ground level.
14. That wherever possible, exsting roads will be used for access to drilling
sites.
15. That when Lessee no longer needs to use drill site access roads, preexisting roads will be restored to a width no greater than twelve (12) feet.
16. That land disturbed on each side of pre-existing roads will be restored as
fas as possible to the original state when Lessee no longer needs to use
said roads for drill site access.
17. That new access roads built by Lessee will be completely restored as far
as possible to the original state when Lessee no longer needs to use said
roads for drill site access.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
R. W. Fleming, President
J. F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President and
Chief Financial Officer
Regent Dunn moved to approve the employment of the services         Evaluation of
of the Financial Control Systems Division of First of Michigan         IpPograms
Corporation to evaluate the investment programs of the University's endowment funds. Regent Laro seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
The Regents received a report on relocating faculty offices         Faculty Offices,
~,r.^,~,,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E~ ~Relocation of
from West Ouadrangle.
Mr. Roderick Daane, General Counsel, reviewed several al-           Historic District
ternatives that had been considered to remove the central campus       Listrg Status
from the Historic District listing, and pointed out that a request
for removal on the grounds of procedural error and error in professional judgment had been denied. Since the University has not
been affected in any way by this listing, there is no real issue to
pursue. He suggested waiting until the University requests federal




140


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


assistance for an actual project and if that assistance is denied,
the issue could be raised again. The Regents agreed that no further
action should be taken at this time.
Central Environ-  Regent Dunn moved to approve the addition of six University
mental Control
System buildings to the Central Environmental Control system, as recommended. Regent Laro seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Hospital House-  The Regents received a report on University Hospital housekeeping Services
keeping services.
Family Housing  Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented that it was his recomRate  mendation that family housing rates for this year should remain
as approved last February, but the specific points of disagreement
between the Housing Office and the Ad Hoc Committee on Family
Housing including the Committee recommendations would be
given due consideration by the rate study committee.
Regent Nederlander commended Mr. Larry Tolley and his
Committee for the time and effort involved in bringing these
problems to the attention of the Board of Regents.
Mniochian    The Regents received a report on the Michigan Union. The
subject will be discussed and a recommendation will be presented
to the Regents in December.
Dining Hall  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the recommendation for
onsolidation a dining commons for the Hill area residence halls. He said that
preserving the characteristics of the individual dining areas; minimizing the problems of security and developing a satisfactory
passageway between the dormitories and the facility would be
given all possible consideration in the architectural design. This is
an area of potential major savings in terms of student costs,
therefore, he recommended positive action.
President Fleming remarked that despite the sincere and
deeply felt opposition to the project by the students he also
recommends approval. Consolidation of the dining areas is feasible
and it will achieve substantial cost savings. The University must
take whatever constructive steps possible to contain the mounting
cost of an education. If a central facility is not constructed, then
remodeling of the existing dormitory kitchens is of top priority.
Regent Brown commented that in such a large institution there
are few places where a community feeling can be created as in
the individual dining rooms. He felt that alternatives should be
more thoroughly explored.
Regent Roach indicated that it was possible that the individual
community problem could be solved architecturally. In view of the
substantial savings to the students involved, it seems advisable
to proceed. He then moved to proceed with the architectural study




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


141


through the design development phase on a thirty-year amortization basis. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion.
Regents Laro and Waters said that they realized the need for
cost savings, and this project would accomplish that need. They
also were aware of the necessity to remodel the kitchens in the
residence halls at a considerable cost if this consolidation did
not take place, but they felt that this was not the time to proceed
with the recommended project.
President Fleming called for the vote. The motion failed with
Regents Roach, Dunn, and Nederlander voting affirmatively and
Regents Brown, Laro and Waters voting in the negative.
Regent Roach then moved to reconsider the vote and then to
table the motion until the December meeting. Regent Laro seconded the motion. The motion failed with Regents Brown, Dunn,
and Waters voting no.
The Regents approved the applications for membership to the  Memberships to
Medical Staff,
medical staff of University Hospital.                     Approved
Vice-President Overberger reviewed in detail a report on re- Research
search expenditures for fiscal 1978. He said that research expendi- Ep1rditures
tures have increased dramatically since 1969, and is probably
attributable to the more aggressive quest for funds on the part of
faculty and staff.
President Fleming indicated that Regent Baker had requested  PIRGIM
that the discussion of a permanent arrangement with the Public
Interest Research Group in Michigan (PIRGIM) be deferred until
the December meeting because he was unable to attend this meeting. However, since registration for next semester is in progress
and the contract with PIRGIM has expired, some action must be
taken at this meeting. He suggested that the present contract be
extended for one term and bring the matter to the Board for discussion in December to decide on a long-term policy.
Regent Dunn then moved to extend the present PIRGIM contract for one term. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted with Regent Laro voting no. Regent Laro said that he is
opposed to having the University involved in the collection of
these fees.
President Fleming commented that following the Regents Affirmative
directive, the Executive Officers have discussed the matter of the Action Program
appointment of an Assistant to the President with certain other
official duties to head the affirmative action program. They concluded that given the time delay that would ensue by delaying
the appointment until the President's successor could make the
appointment, it would be in the best interest of the University to
proceed immediately.




142


NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


Middle Income
Student Assistance
Act, 1978
Public Television
UM-Flint
Presidential
Selection
Committee Guidelines Amended


The Regents received a report on the Middle Income Student
Assistance Act of 1978: Projected funding increase in selected
Federal student assistance programs for The University of Michigan students for 1979-80.
Chancellor Moran reported that the anticipated federal grant
for the Flint television station has been announced. UM-Flint
now has approximately 44% of the operating budget and approximately 50% of the capital. It is now necessary to begin the search
for a manager for the station and to begin construction planning
and to order the equipment for the tower. He said the Regents will
receive a report shortly on the results of this next step.
Regent Nederlander commented that there have been some
questions in connection with the Presidential Selection Committee
and the Guidelines issued. The Guidelines do provide that the
committees can make whatever rules and regulations they wish.
The Guidelines further say that the Regents have no objections
to the committees meeting with each other, and the Presidential
Selection Committee is happy to meet with any of the committees
at any time.
Regent Nederlander then moved to add the following resolution to the Guidelines:
RESOLVED THAT it is the intent of the Regents Guidelines that there be
close Faculty, Alumni and Student involvement somewhere down the line in
the Presidential Selection process.
Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach then read the following statement:
I agree with SACUA communication that the process of appointing a
President of the University should involve continuous communication, participation and consultation between the Regents and the University community. The faculty, student and alumni advisory committees are intended
to be representative bodies which will be the focus of the more formal aspects
of such communication, participation and consultation. Other members of
the University community are not precluded from communicating with the
Regents, nor are the Regents precluded from consultation with anyone.
In the matter of participation, no individual or group has the right or
power to exercise a veto or prior restraint on the Regents' choice. There is
no way of predicting at this time the exact course of the selection process,
particularly in its final stages.
I do not consider the process of selection to be an adversary process,
either between the various University constituencies, or between the Regents
and any of the University constituencies. Rather the process is intended to
be an exercise in consultative decision-making, in an atmosphere of complete intellectual honesty.
I feel strongly that the contribution of any group that politicizes the
process will be of little or no value, and will be counter-productive to the
task at hand.
Regents Brown and Laro agreed with the resolution. They felt
that it is too early to say exactly how joint participation will




NOVEMBER MEETING, 1978


143


occur, however, they feel it is appropriate that these groups be
represented in the final stages of the search as long as confidentiality prevails.
All the above transactions are by unanimous vote unless otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of October totaled $892.31.
The Regents adjourned to meet on December 14 and 15, 1978.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary
INDEX
Affirmative Action program, 141
Appointments, 131, 132, committee, 132
Audit report, 125
Burn Center program, 127
Campbell, J. V., professorship approved, 132
Central Environmental Control System, 140
Closed Meeting, 128
Cooley, Thomas M., professorship approved, 132
Davids, F., death reported, 135
Degrees: lists amended, 136; doctoral candidates list approved, 139
Dining Hall Consolidation, 126, 140
Faculty offices relocation, 139
Family Housing rates, 140
Financial report, 138
Flint: public television, 142
Gifts, 129
Historic District listing report, 139
Hospital: housekeeping services, 140; organizational structure, 126; replacement planning, 126
Investment programs, evaluations of, 139
Memberships to Medical Staff, approved, 141
Michigan Union report, 140
Middle Income Student Assistance Act, 1978, 142
Palazzola, G., memorial statement, 134
PIRGIM, 141
Presidential selection committee guidelines amended, 142
Promotions, 131, 133
Public Comments, 128
Real Property, 138
Research Expenditures report, 141
Resignations, 134
Revenues and expenditures, schedule of, 138
Reynolds, M., memorial statement, 135
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs, 128




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14, 1978
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach and Waters, and Vice-Presidents
Brinkerhoff, Overberger, Radock, Shapiro, Johnson, and VicePresident and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regent Laro
was absent.
Professor Marilyn Mason Brown and Professor Donald Sinta School of lut.ic
Search Committee
presented a report on the status of the Search Committee con- for Dean
sidering a new dean for the School of Music.
They indicated that the Committee is striving to find an individual who will provide leadership for the School, sensitivity to
the talents and strengths of the current faculty, dedication to
innovation and new vistas in music education, good management
skills and an appreciation for raising private funds.
They noted that demand for graduates of the Music School
remained strong and enrollment patterns continue strongly.
After discussion, the Regents reminded the Committee that
this initial step in the search was the most important time to
identify and attract qualified minority and women applicants.
The Search Committee must be responsive to the University's
affirmative action goals. In addition, Regent Baker stated the
responsibility of the Committee was to discover the most qualified
applicants for the position.
Vice-President Shapiro commented that Dean Britton, who is
retiring at the end of this year, has done an enormously effective
job for the University.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the report on the Michi- Michigan Union
gan Union submitted to the Regents in November and recommended approval of the resolution to transfer the direction of the
Michigan Union to the Office for Student Services, to initiate a
market survey to determine services perceived as needed, to convert all but twelve of the hotel rooms to student housing, to
approve renovations as outlined in Phase I of the report and to
restructure the fee allocations for the Michigan Union, Michigan
League and North Campus Commons.


145




146


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


President Fleming commented that in discussing the issue of
whether or not to convert the hotel rooms into student housing,
a substantial amount of money would be necessary to renovate
the hotel rooms. It would be inappropriate to finance such
renovations with student fees. Keeping in mind the critical need
for student housing, it seemed the better course of action to recommend that these spaces be converted to dormitory rooms. Also,
students need a variety of opportunities both for recreational
activities and for organizations experience and the Union would
adapt to this very well. The students are enthusiastic about these
reuse concepts and would benefit greatly from them.
Regent Roach mentioned the concern among some alumni that
their privileges as life members of the Union would be diminished
if the hotel operation is converted to student housing. He asked
if this conversion would be irreversible. Mr. Brinkerhoff responded
that converting back to hotel rooms at a later time would not be
precluded.
Regents Baker and Nederlander commented that they were not
convinced that this was the proper use for this building. Although
conversion to student use is very worthy, the central location of
the building makes it ideal for a variety of alternative uses which
ought to be considered.
Vice-President Johnson stated that only a small percentage
of students actually live in University housing. Those not in University housing need a place where they can feel some sense of
identity with the University other than the academic environment.
Regent Power expressed her support for the recommendations
and said her concern centered around the process by which the
space will be assessed.
Since there was reservation among the Regents concerning the
conversion of the hotel operation, Regent Nederlander moved to
approve the use of the Michigan Union for student use, but to
maintain the hotel space until more information has been received.
There was no second to the motion.
Regent Dunn then moved to table the issue for thirty days,
and to direct the Office of Student Services to begin a market
survey to determine what services were needed. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regents
Power and Roach voting no.
Medical Center  Mr. Roderick Daane, General Counsel, reviewed the lease and
Library, Dearborn resolution documents that will be necessary to execute in order
to provide State Bond funds for construction of the Medical Center
Library and the Dearborn Library.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


147


After discussion and suggested amendments, Mr. Daane indicated that he would bring an amended copy to the Regents for
their approval on Friday.
1. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of November 16 and 17, 1978 were
received by the Regents for adoption at a later date.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investments transactions, temporary investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations.
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts
for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on University
Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following Gifts
sources. They were accepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the Hall Cell
Anode Reactions fund..........................    $  5,000.00
American Association for Automotive Medicine Inc., Morton
Grove, Illinois; for the American Association for Automotive
Medicine-Highway Safety fund.........................    6,040.30
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for American Cancer Society funds...............................  14,710.00
American Diabetes Association, Detroit; for the American Diabetes  Association  funds................................  6,600.00
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas; for the American
Heart Association funds................................  21,505.00
AMP Incorporated, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; for the AMP Incorporated-Yeh fund...................................  13,000.00
Mrs. Chandler P. Anderson, Tucson, Arizona; for the President's
fund........................................             5,000.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia, for Arthritis Foundation
funds.................................................  6,416.67
Russell E. Bauer Foundation, Fraser, for the Richard C. Schneider
Neurosurgical fund...............................      10,000.00
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the Law
School-Law Library Building fund.....................  8,000.00
F. A. Bower Charitable Trust, for the F. B. Fralick Ophthalmology
fund.................................................  10,000.00
Consumers Power Company, Jackson, for the Engineering Building Gifts fund.........................................,000.00
Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, Inc., Washington,
D.C., for the Distilled Spirits Council of the United StatesHarburg fund.........................................    5,400.00




148


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


Eastman Kodak Company, Rochester, New York, for the following funds:
Engineering Minority Support Program fund...........     1,000.00
Minority Engineering Program fund......................  3,000.00
Minority and Female Scholarships in Engineering fund....  1,000.00
James W. Foug and Associates, Palo Alto, California, for the
President's fund.......................................  10,000.00
General Electric Foundation, Bridgeport, Connecticut, for the
following funds:
G.E. Fellowships in Marketing and Economics fund.......  5,000.00
G.E.  Foundation  funds.................................  22,500.00
Interim  Survey Sponsors fund..........................  5,000.00
General Motors Corporation, Staff Accounting Services, Detroit
for the General Motors Scholarship Plan-Ragone fund....  25,641.00
Grand Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star of Michigan, Comstock, for the following funds:
Gastroenterology Education Research fund............   100.00
Multiple Sclerosis Research fund....................  5,680.75
University of Michigan Cancer Research Institute fund....  114.00
Jack Haines Company, Detroit, for the following funds:
Letourneau Cancer Research Fund.......................   5,000.00
Letourneau Diabetes Research fund.....................   5,000.00
Honda R and D Company, Ltd., Saitama, Japan, for the Honda
R and D Company-Motorcycle Dynamics fund............ 20,000.00
Honigman Foundation, Inc., Detroit, for the Law School-Law
Library  Building  fund..................................  20,000.00
Ward Allan Howe Estate, for the Ward Allan Howe fund......   6,891.05
Lee M. Hutchins Estate, to establish the Lora Hutchins Heberle
Award in English Literature fund.........................  15,000.00
Japan Shipbuilding Industry Foundation, Tokyo, Japan, for the
Japan Shipbuilding Industry Foundation-Naval Architecture
and  Marine  Engineering  fund............................  23,897.00
Johnson and Johnson, New Brunswick, New Jersey, for the
Johnson and Johnson-Flynn fund.......................    8,866.00
JSJ Corporation, Grand Haven, for the Engineering Capital
Campaign-Undesignated fund...........................    6,000.00
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek, for the W. K. Kellogg
Foundation-Simms fund.................................... 104,828.00*
Kern County Refinery, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, for the President Gerald R. Ford Library fund........................  5,000.00
Kerr Manufacturing Company, Romulus, for the Kerr Manufacturing-Hawks fund.................................. 10,000.00
Knight Foundation, Akron, Ohio, for the Law School-Law Library
Building   fund.........................................  50,000.00
Thomas G. Long Estate, for the Law School Capital CampaignUnrestricted  fund......................................  14,296.26
Agnes C. McKay Estate, for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay
Medical  Research  fund.................................  20,200.62
Michigan Gas Association, Detroit, for the Michigan Gas Association  Fellowship  fund................................  11,000.00
Michigan Heart Association, Southfield, for Michigan Heart Association   funds..........................................  81,285.00
Michigan Lions Eye Bank, Ann Arbor, for the Michigan Lions
Eye  Bank  fund..................8.............           761.00
Herbert H. Nicke Estate, for the Alumni Association fund......   11,007.12
National Bank and Trust Company of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor, for
the President Gerald R. Ford Library fund..............  5,000.00




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


149


National Foundation, White Plains, New York, for the National
Foundation March of Dimes-Gelehrter fund............... 11,000.00
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Trust, Springfield, Massachusetts, for Frank E. Robbins Memorial funds.......... 12,279.25
Outstate Michigan Construction Industry Advancement Program,
Lansing, for the Michigan Chapter, Associated General Contractors-Civil Engineering fund.......................... 10,300.00
Seabury Foundation, Chicago, Illinois, for the Charles W. Seabury
Fellowship for Graduate Studies in Housing and Community
Development  fund....................................  5,000.00
Shell Companies Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas, for the following funds:
College of Engineering  fund..............................  100.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund.........  100.00
Geology-Mineralogy fund...............................  7,600.00
School of Nursing  fund.................................  100.00
Shell Fellowship in Chemical Engineering fund............  7,500.00
Shell Fellowship in Mechanical Engineering fund..........  7,500.00
Vital  Margin  fund.....................................  650.00
Stauffer Chemical Company, San Francisco, California, for the following funds:
Chemical Engineering Special fund.......................  1,000.00
Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health-Project 4
fund..................................................  4,000.00
Stauffer Chemical Company Foundation-Chemical Engineering   fund..............................................  1,000.00
Texaco, Incorporated, New York, New York, for the Engineering
Building Gifts fund.................................... 20,000.00
Union Carbide Corporation, New York, New York, for the following funds:
Macromolecular Research Center fund....................  2,000.00
Union Carbide Fellowship in Chemical Engineering fund....  3,000.00
Union Carbide Grant-In-Aid in Mechanical Engineering fund  2,000.00
Mr. and Mrs. Fred G. Walcott, Ann Arbor, for the Fred and Edith
Walcott English Scholarship fund........................ 10,000.00
Weirton Steel Division, National Steel Corporation, Weirton, West
Virginia, for the National Steel Corporation Fellowship fund  6,600.00
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
for the Power Systems Laboratory fund.................. 25,000.00
Sadie G. Woodard Estate, to establish the Sadie G. Woodard
Athletic  Scholarship  fund...............................  10,000.00
The following monetary, non-cash gifts were received:
Mrs. Hugh C. Armstrong, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Scholastic
Magazines, common stock, divided as follows:
Mary  G. Armstrong  fund................................  9,250.00
Mary G. Armstrong Student Loan fund..................    750.00
Frances A. and Sydney Lewis, Richmond, Virginia. Best Products
Company, restricted common stock; Pending Designation.. 98,175.00
Mrs. Louise G. Raphael, Atlanta, Georgia. Standard Oil of Indiana,
common stock; for the Theophile Raphael, M.D. Research
fund..................................................  27,156.25
Howard W. Schneider Estate. Eastman Kodak Company, common
stock, for the Howard W. Schneider fund................ 24,300.00
Mr. John Adams Thierry, Hill, New Hampshire, Bucyrus-Erie
Company, common stock, for the History of Art Special Fellowship   fund.........................................  5,362.50




150


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


The following non-monetary, non-cash gifts were received:
General Motors Research Laboratories, Warren. An Ion implanation system,
for the Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering
R. Clay Porter, Ann Arbor. A Panasonic model RQ-156S Tape Recorder and
Accessories, for the Department of Mechanical Engineering
Dr. James S. Reece, Ann Arbor. One Toshiba Microwave Oven, for the
Graduate School of Business Administration
Mrs. Virginia A. Ryan, Pinckney. Partial sets of: The American Mineralogist,
and Economic Geology, for the Department of Geology and Mineralogy
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
Personnel Actions   The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
Appointments      NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND
SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Douglass F. Adams, M.D., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, and Chairman
of the Department of Radiology, July 1, 1979
Carolyn R. Aradine, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure,
September 1, 1978
William Ballis, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Freshman
Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Winter Term, 1979
Alan E. Beer, M.D., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure,
and Chairman of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, May
1, 1979
Lawrence Brockway, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Freshman
Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Winter Term, 1979
Paul D. Carter, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Division of
Education, UM-Dearborn, Winter Term 1979
William Haber, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Freshman
Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Winter Term, 1979
Srinika Jayaratne, Ph.D., Associate Professor, without tenure, September 1,
1979 for a three-year term
Lawrence Kiddle, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the Freshman
Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Winter Term, 1979
Jack L. Kostyo, Ph.D., Professor of Physiology, with tenure, and Chairman
of the Department of Physiology, April 1, 1979
Robert K. Mautz, Ph.D., Professor of Accounting and Director of the Paton
Accounting Center, for a three-year term, January 1, 1979
John W. Melvin, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering,
without tenure, Academic Year 1978-79
Sal Rinella, Ph.D., Vice Chancellor and Director of Business Affairs, UMDearborn, January 1, 1979
The Regents approved the establishment of the Nathan Sinai
Distinguished Professorship in Public Health.
Promotions etc  CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Olin L. Browder, Jr., Professor of Law, appointed the James V. Campbell
Professor of Law, January 8, 1979
Theodore T. Curtis, Assistant Professor of Sociology, appointed Acting
Chairman, Department of Sociology/Anthropology, UM-Flint, January 1, 1979 to August 31, 1979




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


151


Avedis Donabedian, Professor of Medical Care Organizations, appointed the
Nathan Sinai Distinguished Professor of Public Health, December 15,
1978
Robert W. Heywood, Professor of History, appointed Chairman, Department
of History, UM-Flint, January 1, 1979 to December 31, 1981
Frank R. Kennedy, Professor of Law, appointed the Thomas M. Cooley
Professor of Law, January 8, 1979
Frank C. Richardson, Professor of French and German, appointed Chairman,
Department of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint, January 1, 1979 to
December 31, 1979
L. Hart Wright, Professor of Law, appointed the Paul G. Kauper Professor
of Law, January 8, 1979
The Regents approved the extension of three educational leaves
of absence.
The following committee appointments were approved:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Committee
Professor Helen Lloyd, for Winter Term 1979, vice Professor Robert Super,
on leave
University Musical Society Board of Directors
The following officers were elected:
Gail W. Rector, President
Harlan Hatcher, Vice-President
Wilbur Pierpont, Treasurer
Douglas Crary, Secretary
The following directors were elected to succeed themselves for
a three-year term ending at the time of the annual meeting in
1981:
Douglas Crary
Robben Fleming
Wilbur Pierpont
Lois Stegeman
University Extension Service Executive Committee
Professor Wilbert J. McKeachie, to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
December 1, 1978 to November 30, 1981
Professor Lowell W. Beach, for a three-year term, December 1, 1978 to
November 30, 1981, vice Professor Joseph Cosand, term expired
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
George Harold Bridges, M.S.I.E., Adjunct Lecturer in Engineering Minority
Programs, UM-Dearborn, September 1, 1978
Peter J. Cwik, Ph.D., Lecturer in Education, October 1, 1978
Polk Laffoon, IV, M.B.A., Adjunct Lecturer in Humanities, UM-Dearborn,
October 24, 1978
Michael Allan Sandler, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology,
October 1, 1978


Leaves of Absence
Committee
Appointments


Personnel Reports
Appointments




152


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


Promotions  CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on date indicated
Suha Selamoglu, Visiting Professor of Mechanical Engineering, appointment
date changed from September 9, 1978 to October 9, 1978
Resignations     TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective on dates indicated
Carolyn P. Bedell, Assistant Professor of Nursing, December 31, 1978
Francisco W. Eng, Instructor in Internal Medicine, August 31, 1978
John E. Holmes, Assistant Director and Associate Curator, Museum of Art,
October 31, 1978
Thomas J. O'Keefe, Instructor in Surgery, September 30, 1978
Jana L. Pressler, Instructor in Nursing, December 31, 1978
Nina H. Williams, Assistant Professor of Nursing, December 31, 1978


Leaves of Absence


Three off-campus assignments, one leave of absence without
salary and two medical leaves were reported to the Regents.


D. P Cartwright,
Retirement


VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of two faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.
DORWIN P. CARTWRIGHT, Professor of Psychology and Research
Coordinator in the Research Center for Group Dynamics, retired from active
faculty status as of September 1, 1978, after a distinguished career as researcher, administrator, and teacher.
Born in Iowa, the son of a preacher, Dorwin Cartwright moved often
throughout the country in his early years. He attended Swarthmore College,
earned a Ph.D. in psychology at Harvard University, and spent a postdoctoral period working with Dr. Kurt Lewin at the State University of Iowa.
During World War II, Professor Cartwright joined the Division of
Programs and Surveys in the United States Department of Agriculture
(later the Survey Research Center at The University of Michigan). His
studies of motives for the purchase of war bonds and the effect of bombing
on civilian morale in Germany, were among the first social surveys using
psychological concepts. In 1945, Dr. Cartwright helped Dr. Lewin found the
Research Center for Group Dynamics at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. Following Dr. Lewin's untimely death in 1946, Professor Cartwright became the Center's director and brought it to The University of
Michigan where it joined the Survey Research Center to create the Institute
for Social Research.
Since 1947, Professor Cartwright has been the intellectual leader of the
Center and a major member of the Institute for Social Research. He, more
than any other person, developed and nurtured group dynamics as a field of
study. His research and writings on the mathematical foundations of group
dynamics, the sources of social power, the nature of group structure, the
causes of risk taking in groups, and many other topics, have won him worldwide recognition. He has been a tireless citizen, serving on countless advisory
and review committees for agencies in the federal government and professional societies.
The Regents now salute this worthy scientist for his dedicated service
by naming him Professor Emeritus of Psychology.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


153


WALTER P. WORK, M.D., Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, will re-   W. P. Work,
tire from active faculty status as of December 31, 1978, after a most dis-  Retirement
tinguished career as a teacher and surgeon.
A native of Pennsylvania, Dr. Work took undergraduate studies at
Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, and The University of Michigan, before
entering Medical School at The University of Michigan from which he received an M.D. degree in 1935. He served an internship and residency in
Otorhinolaryngology at The University of Michigan, completing this phase
of his training in 1939.
From 1939 through 1941, Dr. Work was an Instructor in the Department of Otorhinolaryngology at The University of Michigan and then joined
the Stanford University School of Medicine in San Francisco, California as a
Clinical Instructor in Otolaryngology. In 1946, he was promoted to Assistant
Clinical Professor of Otolaryngology at the University of California School
of Medicine, San Francisco, California. From 1942-1946, he served as a major
in the U.S. Army Medical Corps, returning subsequently to the University
of California.
In 1961, Walter P. Work was named Professor and Chairman of the
Department of Otorhinolaryngology at The University of Michigan, a position he held until retiring as Chairman June 30, 1977. During his tenure here,
Dr. Work contributed strength and vitality to The University of Michigan
and to the instructional and research programs of the Department of Otorhinolaryngology. He carried the major responsibility for establishing a core
curriculum in Otorhinolaryngology for the Medical School.
From 1961, Dr. Work served as Chairman of the Executive Committee
of the Kresge Hearing Research Institute, working closely in liaison with
the Faculty Building Committee in designing the Kresge Hearing Research
Institute. He was a member of the Executive Committee of the Medical
School, Chairman of the medical staff of the University Hospital, and
recipient of the Galen's Society Faculty Award.
Dr. Work's research interests were in the area of Head and Neck
Surgery, especially salivary gland diseases and cancer of the larynx. He
made many innovative contributions in these areas, and was author of
numerous scientific publications.
Dr. Work has enjoyed a national reputation for excellence and has received a number of honors. Among them are: President of the Society of
University Otolaryngologists; second Vice President of the American College
of Surgeons; President of the American Otological Society; and President
of the American Laryngological, Rhinological, and Otological Society, Inc.
(The Triological Society). He is a member of the American Laryngological
Association and recipient of its highest award, the Newcomb Award. Dr.
Work has served as President of the American Board of Otolaryngology, the
most prestigious and influential body in the field of otolaryngology, having
been responsible for the development and maintenance of training and performance standards in the specialty. Since 1972, he has served as Executive
Secretary of the American Board of Otolaryngology, in charge of the business operations of that Board.
Dr. Work was elected to membership in the Collegium Oto-RhinoLaryngologicum Amicitiae Sacrum, a most renowned international honorary
society. Membership is tendered only to men in the field whose scholarly
achievements have brought international recognition.
Finally, and most importantly, Dr. Work has been a warm, revered
physician to his patients, bringing to his practice the highest level of medical
and surgical skill. Through his example of excellence in patient care, Dr.
Work has richly influenced the medical careers of over 100 residents in
Otorhinolaryngology and hundreds of medical students.
The Regents now salute this distinguished physician and educator for his
dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Otorhinolaryngology.




154


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


VII. DEATHS
Secretary Kennedy reported to the Regents the deaths of
Burton L. Baker, Professor of Anatomy and Dorothy Robinson,
Professor of Social Work.
B. L. Baker,    The Regents express their heartfelt sorrow at the loss of Professor
Memorial
Statement BURTON L. BAKER, who died on October 14, 1978.
Dr. Baker was born April 2, 1912 in Fife Lake, Michigan. He received
hiss A.B. degree from Kalamazoo College in 1933, his M.S. from Kansas
State College in 1935 and his Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1941.
Dr. Baker spent his entire academic career at The University of Michigan
Medical School where he joined the faculty as an Instructor of Anatomy
in 1941, becoming a full Professor in 1952.
During his 37 year tenure, Dr. Baker became a highly respected researcher, teacher and administrator. He published more than 110 scientific
articles in his field of neuroendocrinology and reproductive biology. He was
one of the first investigators to demonstrate, by the use of labeled antibodies,
the presence of reproductive hormones in the pituitary and hypothalamus
and that this part of the brain controls pituitary functions. Dr. Baker was
internationally known and recognized for his important scientific contributions and recently received a "Professor Honoris Causa" from the University
of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
Dr. Baker was the recipient of the Henry Russel Award in 1947, and in
1977 received the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award. He was twice
elected to the Executive Committee of the Medical School and served continually as Chairman of the Cancer Research Committee for almost twenty
years. He served on the University of Michigan Senate Assembly, on the
Executive Board of the H. H. Rackhom School of Graduate Studies and on
the Advisory Committee of the Dental Research Institute.
Nationally, Dr. Baker was Managing Editor and Associate Editor of the
American Journal of Anatomy and served on the Editorial Committee of
the Endocrine Society. His participation in professional societies included the
American Physiologic Society, the Endocrine Society, the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine, where he was on the Editorial and Publications
Committee for over five years, and further served on the Michigan Section.
Those who were privileged to know Dr. Baker, and there were many
friends, students and colleagues, all have benefited from the example this
great man set. He lived a life of intellectual curiosity which permeated and
influenced those around him. A humble but generous individual, Dr. Baker
sought truth in all his endeavors.
The Regents, honoring his service to his profession, colleagues, and students, now join the entire University community in mourning his death and
extend deepest sympathies to his family.
D. Robinson,    It is with deep regret that the Regents learned of the death of
Memorial DOROTHY ROBINSON of the School of Social Work, on October 3, 1978.
Statement     Dorothy Robinson was born in Detroit and grew up in that city. Upon
completing her college work at Wayne State University, Professor Robinson
took her first social work position with the Wayne County Bureau of Social
Aid. She followed this job with assignments as caseworker with Jewish Social Service of Detroit, Jewish Family Service of Cleveland, and the Veterans
Administration Mental Hygiene Clinic of Cleveland. She came to Ann Arbor
in 1948 to pursue graduate studies in social work at The University of
Michigan. After obtaining the M.S.W. degree, she served as a psychiatric
social worker and casework supervisor at University Hospital. She joined
the faculty of the School of Social Work in 1956.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


155


From the time Dorothy Robinson became a faculty member, she was
recognized as an excellent teacher. Students attested to her sound preparation for class presentations and her superior capacity to relate theoretical
knowledge to social work practice issues. She carried a heavy liaison load,
and worked strenuously to integrate class and field learning. Her consultation
to field instructors was highly valued, as she facilitated new services and
placements, and continuously sought to establish more effective field learning
experiences. At the same time, she created opportunities for communication
and exchange of ideas by meeting with students in a variety of settings, most
memorably in her apartment.
Thoughout her career, Professor Robinson contributed a critical perspective gained through practice experience and a long-time investment in
the clinical practice of social work and in mental health programs. She always
treated her clients, her students, and her colleagues with great respect. She
believed in students, in this ability to learn and to succeed. The brightness of
her spirit and her concern for students was a dominant theme in her life at
the School of Social Work.
The Regents join the entire University community in extending deepest
sympathies to her family.
VIII. DEGREES                                                          Degree Lists
Amended
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, August 1978
Education
correct to show:
Lois Jean Ayers Henderson, A.B.
English Language and Literature
add:
Miriam Remage Pemberton, A.B., Northwestern University
Master of Science, August 1978
Natural Resources
add:
Reynaldo M. Arostegui, Profesor, Universidad Nacional de Nicaragua
Environmental Health Science
add:
Larry Edward Fink, B.S. (Chem.)
School of Education
Bachelor of Arts, August 1978
correct to show:
Cynthia Lucille Cheatham, with Distinction
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor in General Studies, April 1978
add:
Carol Ilene Dunn




156


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


Honorary Degrees
Approved
General Fund
Revenues and
Expenditures
Schedule
Alumni Building,
Architect Selection


Bachelor of Arts, August 1978
add:
Eliza Rhonda Levin, with Distinction
The Regents approved all but one of the recommendations of
the Committee on Honorary Degrees for the conferring of honorary
degrees at the April and August 1979 Commencement exercises.
Public announcement will occur following acceptance by the
individuals.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
The Regents received a schedule of general fund revenues and
expenditures for 1968-69 to 1977-78.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the recommendation to
appoint an architect for the proposed Alumni Building.
Regent Roach indicated that it should be understood that construction bids would need Regental approval before proceeding
with the project.
Regent Brown questioned appointing an architectural firm outside of the State of Michigan as was recommended. He said there
were well qualified firms in this State.
Mr. Brinkerhoff responded that this particular firm was chosen
because of their sensitivity and skill in design which was needed
for this project.


Regent Roach then moved to table the issue until Friday and
have the chairman of the committee address the Regents at that
time. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted
with Regent Brown voting no and Regent Dunn abstaining.
PIRGIM    The Regents heard comments concerning the Public Interest
Group in Michigan (PIRGIM) by Paula Waterman.
The meeting adjourned at 5:00 P.M.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 15, 1978
The Regents reconvened at 9:15 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors Goodall
and Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Overberger, Radock,
Shapiro, Johnson and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present.


Hospital
Replacement Site


Dr. Douglas Sarbach, Director of Hospital Planning, Resources
and Development, reviewed a progress report and a final review
of the siting question of the hospital replacement project. He ex



DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


157


plained the development of the unit on both the North and East
sites and indicated the North site had emerged as the preferred
location.
Mr. A. Alfred Taubman, Chairman of the Citizens Advisory
Committee of the Hospital replacement project, discussed the
difficulty of the site configurations, the location of the existing
structures with respect to the teaching and research facilities on
the Medical campus. He indicated that the Advisory Committee
had studied each site keeping in mind the many factors involved
and came to the conclusion that the North site was best and would
provide some cost savings over the East site.
Regent Power asked how the movement of the thousands of
people in the Medical Center every day would be handled?
Mr. Taubman replied that the five categories to be accommodated were the patients, the visitors, the students, the research
staff, and the faculty. The site would have to be planned in such a
way that the overlap in the movement patterns generated by these
different categories are minimized. The North site seems to accomplish this best.
Regent Power commented further that care must be taken to
insure sufficient flexibility to allow for future development.
Mr. Roy Johnson, of Johnson, Johnson & Roy, pointed out
that by fixing an edge on the North side the option for future
growth to the East would be retained.
Regent Baker noted that while Mr. Taubman had to leave the
meeting, he would wish him to know of the Regents appreciation
for his comments and indeed the time he has spent in studying
this project as head of the Citizens Advisory Committee.
Regent Baker then stated that while he and Mr. Taubman
would reach many of the same conclusions about the hospital planning, there were some differences that bear attention.
There is certainly a consensus of the need for a new hospital.
That facility will clearly require an enormous financial investment
on the part of the State and others, perhaps the largest in the
State's history. The decisions concerning the site, design and construction of the hospital will set land use policy for the entire
70 acre Medical Center site for the next several decades. Regent
Baker then reviewed the history of the Regents hospital planning
process for the proposed site. The Regents first considered the
alternatives of developing a medical campus on the site separate
from the present University Hospital. After careful consideration
they elected to construct the new hospital on the present medical
campus. The existing site chosen by the Regents presented extremely difficult site problems in terms of transportation, utilities,




158


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


topography, available land, proposed design, as well as other
factors. The two basic questions to be considered, analyzed and
decided upon were:
(1) What kind of physical facility in a programmatic sense
was required to best meet the needs of the people of Michigan
and the University?
(2) Where should the building be placed on the available site
considering all legitimate site planning factors. Upon concluding
the most practical site for the new hospital was on the present
medical campus, the Regents elected to purchase the St. Joseph
Mercy Hospital and extend the existing medical campus to provide
substantially more land area for medical center growth over the
long period of time. The hospital planning group was charged
by the Regents with accomplishing the following goals:
(1) The development of a programmatic study of hospital
needs and use to be used as an outline for hospital design, and
(2) The creation of a site plan to implement the programmatic
study and assure proper use of the overall medical center land
and the proper siting of the new hospital.
The next hurdle to the development of the hospital site was
the formulation of a transportation and traffic plan working with
UATS to resolve the access and circulation problems which were
of concern for the University, the State of Michigan, Washtenaw
County and the City of Ann Arbor. A compromise plan was approved after substantial discussion between UATS and the
University.
Regent Baker said that one must always examine the complicated planning and construction project such as the proposed
University Hospital in the longer view. A primary consideration
was to see that both the programmatic plan and overall site plan
would provide the best potential and maximum use of both the
facility and the site over a long period of time; such a plan would
not be unlike the central campus master plan which has been used
time and time again as a guide in the planning and construction
for the central campus. The University does not now have such
a master plan for the medical campus and Regent Baker believes
it is essential to the planning and construction process in order
that the best utilization of the available 70 acres of land can be
attained. Regent Baker expressed disappointment that the study
had not been completed prior to the recommendation for the final
siting of the proposed hospital, particularly since the Regents
had requested such a plan on several occasions and were of the
opinion such a plan had been prepared. This is not to say that a
significant amount of planning has not been done, but the need
for a master plan is essential as evidenced, for example, by the




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


159


present difficulty in trying to locate the proposed new Burn Center
in the hospital campus.
There appears to be two logical sites for the new hospital
called the North site and the East site respectively, with Mr. Taubman and the planners preferring the North option. Regent Baker
indicated that he is not particularly disposed to either site, except
that the East site seems to provide maximum flexibility of overall
land use over the longer term. He is concerned that decision on
either site in the absence of a master plan may be premature and
is conscious of the time constraints the University faces with
regard to the formal application to the various public authorities
for construction of the hospital.
There is a possibility, however, that planning funds may be
available from the State which would allow the University to carry
forward a master plan study and, at the same time, proceed with
the planning of the facility. To that end, he indicated he would
be willing, at the appropriate time, to move that the University
go forward with the plan suggested by Dr. Dalston so long as
there is also a commitment to develop a total master site plan
and keep open the option of the East site.
Regent Baker asked Mr. Johnson for his comments to this as
a next step.
Mr. Johnson agreed that master planning continues to need
refinement and testing as the present plans go forward.
In further discussion it was generally agreed that the East
site option could be held open even though for the purposes of the
Certificate of Need a preference for the North site is indicated.
Dr. Dalston pointed out that this could be done but reminded
the Regents that the further the project moves along the costlier
it would be to move back to develop the site on the East.
Regent Dunn moved that the North site be considered the
primary location for the hospital replacement. Regent Waters
seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regent Baker
voting no.
Regent Roach moved to authorize the preparation of a master
plan for the long-term use of the Medical Campus. Regent Power
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Mr. Robert Forman, Executive Director of the Alumni Association, introduced Mr. Clarence Roy of the architectural firm
of Johnson, Johnson and Roy, who would address the question
Regent Brown had raised on Thursday concerning selection of an
architect outside the State of Michigan for the Alumni Building.


Medical Campus
Master Plan
Authorized
Alumni Building,
Architect
Selection




160


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


Be


M


Mr. Roy commented that the Washington firm had been the
unanimous choice of the Committee because of their response to
the sensitivity to the configuration of the site and the surrounding
buildings, and their experience in dealing with these problems.
Regent Roach agreed with Regent Brown that the University
should support state businesses, but the Alumni Association is a
national and international organization and the building would
not be constructed with state funds. He then moved to approve
the Washington firm as recommended. Regent Power seconded
the motion. The motion failed with Regents Brown, Dunn and
Waters voting no and Regent Laro abstaining.
Regent Brown suggested that the Alumni Association reconsider and submit further comments at the January meeting.
G. R. Ford  Regent Roach moved to authorize awarding a construction
Library Project
dget Approved contract to the low bidder and to approve the revised project
budget for the Gerald R. Ford Library. Regent Waters seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
ichigan League  Regent Power moved to approve the Michigan League imImprovements
Approved provements and to authorize the securing of a term loan for five
years, as recommended. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
Real Property  Regent Roach moved to authorize an oil and gas lease in
Stinchfield Woods, Washtenaw County, to the Hunt Energy Corporation. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Brown moved authorization to sell a parcel of land
in Needel's Oak Park subdivision #2, Oakland County to Mr.
and Mrs. Randall D. Austin. Regent Roach seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Regent Laro moved authorization to dispose of part of Lot 20,
Scottwood First Addition to the City of Ann Arbor by initially
giving the neighbors the right of first refusal then proceeding as
recommended. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Roach indicated that it was the University's obligation
to obtain the highest price possible.
Regent Laro moved authorization to sell certain parcels of
land in Marquette County from the Helen F. Weber estate. Regent
Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach moved authorization to execute a land contract
for the sale of real property at Gratiot and Mt. Elliott, Detroit,
Michigan and adoption of the following resolution. Regent Waters
seconded the motion and it was adopted.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


161


RESOLUTION
RESOLVED, that President Fleming and Vice-President Brinkerhoff be
and they are hereby authorized to execute on behalf of The Regents of The
University of Michigan, a Michigan constitutional corporation, as co-vendor,
that certain land contract dated as of November 30, 1978, by and between
said Regents of The University of Michigan and Doris B. Hofmann, vendors,
and Anthony Jacobs and Judith Ann Jacobs, his wife, as vendees, of vacant
real property in the City of Detroit, located at the intersection of Gratiot
and Mt. Elliott Avenues, all as more completely described in said land contract, for the consideration of $15,000, of which the sum of $4,000 shall be
paid at closing, with a deferred balance of $11,000 bearing interest at 9%
per annum, to be paid in monthly installments of $200, provided, however,
that the entire purchase price shall be paid within five years from and after
November 30, 1978.
Mr. Roderick Daane reviewed the revisions to the resolution       State Building
of the State Building Authority authorizing a lease between the      Authority
State Building Authority and State of Michigan and the University
of Michigan for the Medical Library and the Dearborn Library.
Regent Roach moved to approve the revisions and to adopt
the following resolution. Regent Laro seconded the motion and it
was adopted with Regents Baker and Dunn voting no.
RESOLUTION OF THE STATE BUILDING AUTHORITY
APPROVING LEASE
A RESOLUTION of the State Building Authority authorizing a lease
between the State Building Authority and State of Michigan and The
University of Michigan for the purpose of acquiring and leasing to the
State and the University a Medical Campus Library and Learning Resource
Center and to provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority") has been
incorporated under and in pursuance of the provisions of Act 183, Public
Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of acquiring,
constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots
and facilities and sites therefor, for the use of the State of Michigan (the
"State"), including institutions of higher education created pursuant to
Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963,
or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, The University of Michigan (the "University") has been
created and is maintained pursuant to Section 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority acquire
a Medical Campus Library and Learning Resource Center (the "Facilities"),
and lease.the same to the State and the University and the Authority is
willing to acquire the Facilities and lease the same to the State and the
University; and
WHEREAS, the Authority, by resolution adopted June 21, 1978 did determine, subject to the conditions set forth in such resolution, to acquire the
Facilities and to lease them to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, the site of the Facilities (the "Site") is presently owned by
the University and the Facilities are now under construction by the University




162


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


and it is intended that the Site be conveyed to the Authority by the University and the Facilities be conveyed by the University to the Authority as
acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facilities by the Authority for use by
and Lease to the University and the State is necessary in order for the State
and the University to carry out necessary governmental functions and enterprises and to provide necessary services to the people of the State, as mandated or permitted by Constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to
accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical means to that end
at the lowest cost to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, a form of lease between the Authority and the State and the
University providing for the acquisition of the Site and the Facilities by the
Authority and the lease of the Site and the Facilities to the State and the
University has been prepared in substantially final form and is attached
hereto as Exhibit A (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved
by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution
of the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members
elected to and serving in each house and if the Lease is for an institution of
higher education existing or created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article
VIII of the State Constitution, then in addition the Lease shall be authorized
by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized officers
and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Board of Regents of the University
authorized the Lease;
Now, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY THAT:
1. The Board of Regents of the University hereby authorizes the Lease
in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A and the President and the
Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of the University are hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in substantially the
form attached as Exhibit A for and on behalf of the University at such time
as shall be agreeable to the State, the Authority and such University officers,
and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers of the University
for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183.
2. The plans for the Facilities, as filed with the University, are hereby
approved and the assignment of the acquisition and construction of the
Facilities to the Agent is hereby approved.
3. The conveyance of the Site and the Facilities, as heretofore and hereafter constructed and acquired, to the Authority is hereby approved.
4. The Financial arrangements contained in the Lease with respect to the
acquisition, construction and financing of the Facilities are hereby approved.
5. The Authority acknowledges that the Lease and obligation to pay true
rent thereunder do not authorize or permit the incurring of indebtedness of
the State contrary to the provisions of the State Constitution.
6. The Authority further acknowledges that the State's obligations and
the University's obligation to pay rent and perform other duties and obligations specified in the Lease do not depend upon passage of title to the
Facilities to the University or the State without consideration and the
Authority hereby represents that it would have approved the Lease even
though title to the Facilities would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
7. This resolution may be supplemented, revised or amended from time
to time as determined in the sole discretion of the Authority.
8. This resolution shall become immediately effective upon adoption and
effectiveness of a resolution by the Authority, State Administrative Board




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


163


and Senate and House of Representatives of the State of Michigan authorizing a Lease between the State Building Authority and the State of Michigan
and University approving execution and delivery of said Lease.
Vice-President Johnson reviewed the new fee assessment and
collection agreement between the University and the Public Interest Group in Michigan (PIRGIM) and recommended approval.
Regent Nederlander commented that the University does enter
into long-term contracts and he moved to amend the recommendation to enter into a two-year contract with a minimum of 251%
participation for two consecutive full terms at the Ann Arbor
campus. Regent Roach seconded the motion.
Regent Baker traced the history of the organization and noted
the continuing decline in the participation requirement.
Regent Brown moved to amend the motion to enter into a twoyear contract with a minimum of 2212% participation. Regent
Waters seconded the motion. The motion failed with Regents
Roach, Laro, Baker, and Nederlander voting no.
President Fleming then asked for the vote on Regent Nederlander's motion and it was adopted with Regents Baker and Laro
voting no.
Regent Laro indicated that he was opposed to the different set
of rules applied to student organizations. He then moved that the
25% minimum participation would apply to all student organizations who qualify under the guidelines adopted by the Regents in
March 1972. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted.


PIRGIM
Contract Approved


X. OTHER
The Regents received a report from the Biological Research
Review Committee.
Regent Brown moved to approve the following revisions of the
Regents' bylaws affecting the College of Architecture and Urban
Planning and the School of Art. Regent Waters seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
SEC. 1.01 THE COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE AND URBAN PLANNINGEXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The Executive Committee shall consist of the Dean
and four members of the faculty to be appointed by the Board on recommendation by the President. The appointed members shall hold office for
two years and shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse
of one year. The terms shall be adjusted so that two shall expire each year.
The Dean shall chair the committee. The governing faculty is authorized to
arrange for student participation in meetings of the Executive Committee in
an advisory capacity. Student participants, not more than four in number,
shall be selected annually in accordance with procedures approved by the
governing faculty.


Biological
Research Review
Committee
Sec. 11.01 Bylaws
Revised




164


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


Sec. 11.011   SEC. 11.011. THE SCHOOL OF ART-EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. The ExecuBylaws Revised tire Committee shall consists of the Dean and six members of the faculty to
be appointed by the Board own recommendation by the President. The appointed members shall not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse
of one year. The terms shall be adjusted so that three shall expire each year.
The Dean shall chair the Committee.
Medical Staff
Membership,    The Regents approved the application for membership to the
Approved  Medical staff at University Hospital.
Recreational
Facilities-  Chancellor Moran withdrew an item for the recreational faciliUM-Flint ties at UM Flint. He said it would be resubmitted in January.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the following resolution.
Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
WHEREAS, Robben W. Fleming has submitted his resignation as President
of The University of Michigan, effective January 2, 1979; and
WHEREAS, President Fleming is eligible for retirement, since he will
reach the age of 62 on December 18, 1978; and
R. W. Fleming,
Resolution   WHEREAS, President Fleming would be eligible for furlough payments
for one year before officially retiring but for the provisions of 47 U.S.C.
396(e)(1) prohibiting receipt of such furlough pay by the President of the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting, which employment President Fleming
will begin on January 2, 1979; and
WHEREAS, it is the desire of the Board of Regents of The University of
Michigan to use President Fleming as an occasional unpaid advisor on matters
which are particularly within his knowledge during the period ahead, and
President Fleming is willing to provide such advice;
IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that:
1. Robben W. Fleming will serve as an unpaid advisor to The University
of Michigan during 1979 and for such additional period as the Regents
may request while President Fleming is the President of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
2. At such time as Robben W. Fleming shall cease to be President of the
Corporation for Public Broadcasting, upon appropriate notification
thereof to University authorities, his terminal furlough year shall
thereupon commence.
3. In the event of the death or total disability of Robben W. Fleming
at any time after the end of calendar year 1978 and prior to the conclusion of his terminal furlough year any then unpaid furlough year
salary will forthwith be paid to Robben W. Fleming or to his estate,
as the case may be.
President Fleming thanked the Regents and said that he feels
deeply for this University and for the Regents and would surely
miss everyone.
Regent Power then read the following resolution.
Robben W. Fleming has led The University of Michigan for 11 years,
through the good times and the bad, with caring and skill, sensitivity and
humanity. In the turbulence of the 1960's it was his grace under pressure
that committed the University to mark new goals in the struggle toward
educational opportunity for all. In the financial turmoil of the 1970's it




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


165


was his tough minded commitment to excellence that preserved and expanded
the University's standing as one of the pre-eminent educational institutions
of this country and of the world. In the swirling mix of challenge and
opportunity that confronted this enormous University every day, it was
his willingness to listen intently, think clearly and act decisively that brought
every part of the University-faculty, students, staff and administrationtogether.
Most of all, he brought to The University of Michigan a sense of values
made concrete in the acts and choices of every day. Quietly, modestly, yet
masterfully he articulated in his presidency the great goals of that process
of education to which we are dedicated:
"You go to a great school not so much for knowledge as for arts and
habits; for the habit of attention, for the art of expression, for the art of
assuming at moment's notice a new intellectual position, for the art of entering quickly into another person's thoughts, for the habit of submitting to
censure and refutation, for the art of indicating assent or dissent in graduated
terms, for the habit of regarding minute points of accuracy, for the art of
working out what is possible in a given time, for taste, for discrimination,
for mental courage and mental soberness."*
* William Johnson Cory, a master at Eton, during the 19th century.
Robben Fleming made these things real and present every day of his
presidency.
We salute, praise, honor and thank him and his works here. We wish
him well in his coming endeavors, and we hold for him a very special place
in our hearts and minds.
Regent Baker moved to approve the appointment of Allan F.        A. F. Smith,
Smith as Interim President effective January 2, 1979, and until a    Interim President
permanent President is appointed. Regent Brown seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
All the above transactions are by unanimous vote unless otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of November totaled $1,719.40.
The Regents adjourned to meet on January 18 and 19, 1979.
RICHARD L. KEN, Secrtar
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




166


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


INDEX
Alumni Building, architect selection, 156, 159
Appointments, 150, 151; committee, 151
Baker, B. L., memorial statement, 154
Biological Research Review Committee, 163
Bylaws revised, Sec. 11.01, 163; Sec. 11.011, 164
Cartwright, D. P., retirement, 152
Dearborn: library, 146
Degrees, lists amended, 155; honorary degrees approved, 156
Fleming, R. W., resolution, 164
Flint: recreational facilities, 164
Ford, G. R., Library, project budget approved, 160
General fund revenues and expenditures schedule, 156
Gifts, 147
Hospital, replacement site, 156
Leaves of absences, 151, 152
Medical Campus, master plan authorized, 159
Medical Center Library, 146
Medical staff, memberships approved, 164
Michigan League, improvements approved, 160
Michigan Union, 145
Music, School of, Search Committee for Dean, 145
PIRGIM, 156; contract approved, 163
Promotions, 150, 152
Real Property, 160
Resignations, 152
Robinson, D., memorial statement, 154
Smith, A. F., appointed Interim President, 165
State Building Authority, 161
Work, W. P., retirement, 153




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


167


APPENDIX A
OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENT AWARDS
Conferred November 18, 1978
RONALD KOTULAK, Bachelor of Arts in Journalish, Class of 1959;
science writer and science editor of the Chicago Tribune.
You are a representative of an elite-a critically important elite, the
translators of the meaning of developments in science for the rest of us;
the bridge between those who are at the cutting edge of discovery and those
to whom the things they learn will someday be important. It is an extraordinarily demanding craft, and you are among its finest practitioners.
There's testimony to that in the numerous awards you have won for
analytical reporting of research, and especially medicine; your presidency
of the national organization of science writers; your membership in the
Illinois Institute of Medicine.
There are other qualities that recommend you, however. The editor of
the Chicago Tribune says of you, "... He is free from the extremes of ego
which sometimes appear in high achievers, but he has never lost his ambition
to do each assignment a little better than the last. He is an extraordinarily
fine human being as well as a highly skilled professional."
Another colleague put it very directly.
"I consider Ron," he said, "the best science writer in the country."
It is with great pleasure that The University of Michigan presents to
this outstanding alumnus, the Outstanding Achievement Award.
JAMES SLATTIN MARTIN, JR., Bachelor of Science in Engineering.
Class of 1942; inventor, engineer, manager of space projects.
The Viking Project, which two years ago resulted in the successful
landing of a pair of spacecraft on the planet Mars, represents the most
complex, demanding, and expensive unmanned space mission ever attempted.
As project manager for Viking, you played a vital role in the success of
this mission.
Your earlier management achievements at Republic Aviation and later
as deputy director of the Lunar Orbiter Project were in themselves major
contributions to our space program. In fact all five missions of the unmanned
Lunar Orbiter in 1966 and 1967 were successful and produced the photographs
from which the Apollo moon landings were planned.
It is however, the Viking Project which represents your greatest management achievement. The entire world has been thrilled by the beautiful
photographs of the Martian surface which have been transmitted to earth,
and the scientific community continues to reap the benefits of the wide
range of data gathered by the Viking spacecraft. You successfully directed
the many industrial and governmental teams who designed, built, tested
and flew these spacecraft. You managed with skill the scientific teams involved in the Viking experiments, including more than fifty internationally
recognized scientists and several Nobel prize winners.
The University of Michigan is proud to recognize a distinguished alumnus
who has successfuly met one of the greatest aerospace challenges of our time.
and now presents to you this Outstanding Achievement Award.
JOHN HAROLD PICKERING, Bachelor of Arts in 1938; Juris Doctor
in Law in 1940; lawyer extra ordinary.
For nearly forty years, you have served the public as a lawyer with
dedication and consummate skill.




168


DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


After earning a law degree with honors, you began your career in New
York, but soon moved to Washington, D.C., to serve as a law clerk to another
distinguished son of Michigan, Mr. Justice Frank Murphy of the United
States Supreme Court. Thereafter, you became associated with the law firm
that you now head. Your reputation as one of the nation's outstanding
lawyers has contributed to making that firm one of the preeminent law offices
in the nation. Among those who have sought your counsel are many of the
nation's leading corporations and business associations.
Throughout your career, you have represented your clients diligently,
effectively, and in a manner that has maintained the highest ethical standards
of the legal profession. In doing so, you have been an exemplar for generations of young lawyers.
You have been generous in providing voluntary service to your profession, serving the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
as chairman of its Advisory Committee on Procedures and as a member
of its Rules Advisory Committee and of its Committee on the Administration
of Justice. You have also served as a member of the Board of Governors
of the District of Columbia Bar and, currently, as its President-Elect.
You have been of outstanding service to the Law School for many years
and have taken an active and personal interest in helping enrich and enhance
legal education and research at this institution.
The University of Michigan is proud to salute an illustrious alumnus
who has meant so much to his profession, his community, and his Alma
Mater, and now presents this Outstanding Achievement Award.
LOUIS W. ROBERTS, Master of Science in Engineering, Class of 1937;
outstanding scientist, humanitarian, administrator.
As an applied scientist you have made important contributions to microwave electronics through your work in universities and industrial laboratories.
The commercial importance of your work has been shown by the success
of your own companies.
As Director of Energy and Environment for the federal government's
Transportation Systems Center, you have led the attack upon some of our
nations most pressing problems. While others have chosen the role of spectator, you have consistently stepped into the arena and, with energy and
vigorous enthusiasm, have assumed the responsibility to achieve.
As a concerned citizen, you have given generously of your talents and
time in the development of educational opportunities for underprivileged
youth.
The University of Michigan salutes you as a distinguished alumnus for
your many contributions to science, technology, and governmental affairs
with the presentation of this Outstanding Achievement Award.
RUSSELL BANGS STEARNS, Bachelor of Arts, Class of 1916; corporation executive, humanitarian.
Commerce is your vocation, but mankind is your business. Your career
is distinguished by its fine synthesis of commerce and the arts, to their
mutual benefit and the enrichment of society. We applaud your enviable
record of philanthropy, public service, commitment to institutions of culture
and higher education, and accomplishments in the fields of business and
finance.
As an undergraduate at Michigan you were exposed to works of art
and their history. With characteristic humanity, you have sought to extend
this enrichment to others. Your generous gifts will enable present and future
generations of university students, faculty, and museum visitors to share
some of the pleasure you have derived from a lifelong involvement with the
arts.




DECEMBER MEETING, 1978


169


As a businessman you have served as director and executive officer of
major firms in food products, manufacturing, utility services, banking and
investments. Your prodigious energies have been devoted equally to the
support of the nation's scientific and cultural life. In a literal sense, the
voices of the Boston Opera Association sing to all of us for you.
In public commendation of your personal generosity of spirit and resources, The University of Michigan is privileged to present this Outstanding
Achievement Award.
REGENTS' CITATION OF HONOR
Conferred December 10, 1978
University of Michigan-Dearborn
FRANK CADDY, President of the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield
Village, Public-spirited Citizen, Cultural Historian, Dedicated Educator
Devoted to the goal of understanding American culture through the study
of commonplace artifacts designed and used by American inventors and
craftsmen, Frank Cady has spent forty-six years of his life serving and
guiding the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, now in their fortyninth year of operation. These two remarkable sister institutions, together
comprising one of the most extensive and significant collections of Americana
in existence, demand of their directors a measure of the same imagination
displayed by their founder, Henry Ford. Even as he was changing the future
of not only America but the world, Henry Ford foresaw the importance of
collecting, preserving, and studying what was being replaced by new technology. Others endowed museums for the fine arts; Ford initiated museums
for the industrial and decorative arts, and staffed it with individuals who had
to create a tradition as they went along, for they had no precedents to guide
them. Frank Caddy knew Ford personally, and has played an important part
in bringing to success Ford's visionary enterprise of awakening America to
the value of its heritage of accomplishment in the fields of material culture.
During his long and distinguished career with the Henry Ford Museum
and Greenfield Village, Frank Caddy has served at various times as their
Director of Administration, Treasurer, Secretary to the Board, Vice-President
for Administration, and, since 1976, President. Despite the economic difficulties of recent years, he has steered his charges boldly into activities which
have enhanced not only their popularity but also their professional prestige.
He has directed a major reorganization of exhibits, augmented professional
staff, authorized construction of new buildings, and fostered closer working
relations with area universities.
For guiding the Henry Ford Museum    and Greenfield Village from
strength to strength and in doing so enriching the cultural resources and
heritage of the area and the republic, The University of Michigan-Dearborn
takes pleasure in presenting to you this Regents' Citation of Honor.




JANUARY MEETING, 1979
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18, 1979
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Power, Roach, and Waters. Chancellors Goodall
and Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro, and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present.
President Smith briefly reviewed the recent history of the  Michigan Union,
Transfer of
Michigan Union and indicated that the proposal before the Board  Governance
to place the governance and operation of the facility under the
direction of the Vice-President for Student Services would more
clearly identify and devote the Union to student affairs.
Regent Baker said that he wished to make the comment that
the Regents were pleased to have Mr. Smith as president and were
looking forward to working with him. They were grateful for his
acceptance of this responsibility for the next few months.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that the recommendation
would eliminate the Union as a separate, non-profit corporation
and would place the fee structure for the Michigan Union, Michigan League and North Campus Commons in a common system
for support and maintenance. Phase I of the recommendation
would require an increase of $2.65 per student per term, of which
$1.65 would be used by the Michigan Union for debt service and
$1.00 for its operation. He reviewed the renovation, maintenance
and program improvement costs that were essential for conversion
to a more effective student oriented facility.
Vice-President Johnson reviewed the Union use survey which
was conducted by his office to ascertain the type of facilities and
services of interest to the students. The broad range of possibilities
indicated the need for flexibility in providing facilities and services
compatible both to the physical limitation of space and the services
offered by the nearby private sector.
After stating his concept of what the role of the Michigan
Union should be, Mr. Johnson indicated that should the transfer


171




172


JANUARY MEETING, 1979


of governance be approved, he would appoint an interim task force
committee to research student needs in depth; investigate ways
these needs are being met elsewhere; study the Union as it
presently exists; and develop alternative plans for meeting identified needs through programming, revenue-producing activities,
food service alternatives and ambience.
After further discussion, Regent Laro moved to approve the
resolutions as recommended. Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Baker expressed his concern that originally the Union
was organized for the alumni, faculty and students, and felt this
should be retained in the resolution. Therefore, he moved to amend
the fourth line of the first recommendation to read... facility
in keeping with its original purpose.... Regent Roach seconded
the motion and it was adopted. The resolution as amended follows:
1. Transfer direction to the Office of Student Services, with the understanding that appropriate advisory committees on programs and, if
required, operations, be developed by the Vice-President to assist in
determining programs, ambience, and upkeep priorities to ensure a
facility in keeping with its original purpose that is appropriate and
responsive to the needs of the University community.
The transfer can be accomplished by adoption of the following resolution:
WHEREAS, The Michigan Union was recognized in the 1967 edition of
the Regents Bylaws in Section 30.11, which section was deleted from all
post-1967 editions of the Regents Bylaws,
RESOLVED that Regents Bylaw Section 30.11 is hereby formally revoked,
including, without limitation, any and all delegations of authority made at
anytime to The University of Michigan Union, a Michigan nonprofit corporation, its Board of Directors, Officers, or members. Pursuant to Regents Bylaw
14.01, written notice of such revocation shall be given to the resident agent
of the Michigan Union, a Michigan non-profit corporation, Mr. Stanfield M.
Wells, Jr., by delivery of a copy of this resolution, certified by the Secretary
of the University; and
WHEREAS, Regents Bylaw Section 7.03 provides for delegation of further
programs to the Office of Student Services, it is
FURTHER RESOLVED that the Regents hereby delegate to the Office of
Student Services, pursuant to Regents Bylaw Section 7.03, the direction of
the programs of the Michigan Union, including, without limitation, the maintenance, operation, and control of all real and personal property occupied
by or used in connection with the Michigan Union.
2. Authorize the Vice-President for Student Services to:
a. Initiate a market survey to determine services perceived as needed.
Areas to be surveyed would include, (but not be limited to)
1) Student Oriented Food Service
2) Barber Shop
3) Billiard Room
4) Bowling Alley and Pinball area
5) Storage locker space




JANUARY MEETING, 1979


173


6) Music Practice and listening rooms
7) Space for chess, bridge, backgammon and other games
8) Television viewing area
9) Arts and crafts area
10) Expansion for bookstore
11) Potential for added services-other unions have found success
with bank machines, student craft sales stores, travel agencies,
graphic shops, photographic darkrooms and the like.
Such surveys have proved very helpful at the University of Illinois
and the University of Kansas.
b. Reorganize spaces in the building to separate noncomplementary
activities and to provide services, within financial resources outlined. This would include a student-oriented food service and the
continuation of the University Club, provided the Club is financially viable.
c. Accomplish immediate rehabilitation needs, as shown in the attached table as Phase I, and plan and schedule Phase II for later
review by the Regents.
3. Approve restructuring the fee allocation for the Michigan Union,
Michigan League, and North Campus Commons, beginning Fall Term
1979-80 as follows:


Michigan Union
/Term/
Total       Student
Operations.........$280,000         $ 4.00
Debt Service........ 115,500          1.65
Utlities............. 315,000         4.50
$710,500       $10.15
North
Campus Commons
/Term/
Total       Student
Operations..........$ 17,500      $.25
Debt Service........
Utilities............  73,500         1.05
$ 91,000       $ 1.30


Michigan League
/Term/
Total      Student
$ 52,500      $.75
59,500.85
87,500       1.25
$199,500      $2.85


Total


Total
$ 350,000
175,000
476,000
$1,001,000


/Term/
Student
$ 5.00
2.50
6.80
$14.30


This represents a net increase per student per term of $2.65, beginning
Fall 1979-80. When Phase II is committed, the additional projected increase
would be $3.85 per student per term. (See attached schedule.)
4. Authorize the Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer to arrange
financing to permit Phase I work to begin before Fall term 1979-80.
President Smith then spoke to the recommendation to convert
the Michigan Union hotel rooms to student housing, and explained
the expenditures involved. He also reviewed the renovation costs
if the hotel rooms were to be retained.


Michigan Union
Hotel




174


JANUARY MEETING, 1979


Hospital,
Certificate of Need
St. Joseph Mercy
Hospital Plant
Certificate of Need


The Regents indicated their awareness of the University's
obligation in providing preferential room assignments to those
with life memberships to the Union. Regents Baker and Roach
concurred that the ideal situation would be to construct a new
dormitory, thus retaining the hotel rooms for returning alumni
and conferences. Since this is not feasible at this time, and there
is an urgent need for student housing, the conversion seemed the
best solution. It was also noted that conversion was not irreversible.
Regent Baker reiterated his concern for the long-standing
agreement between the University and the graduates of this
University, and suggested that the Regents reconsider their position.
Regent Waters moved to convert all but twelve of the hotel
rooms in the Michigan Union to student housing. Regent Power
seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regent Baker
voting no.
President Smith introduced the next topic, the Certificate of
Need for the Hospital replacement project. He said that past
discussions with the Regents indicated a total project budget of
$309-$311 million. It is now clear that funding from the State
will not exceed $200 million. The total funding recommended at
this time is $254 million which includes the $200 million from the
State, $20 million of private funding, and $34 million from debt
supported by hospital revenues. There has also been a reduction
in the total square footage of space.
Dr. Jeptha Dalston, Director of University Hospital, explained
that the hospital replacement program included razing three
buildings, the Neuropsychiatric Hospital, the Clinical-Faculty
office building, and the North Outpatient building; and remodeling
the Women's Hospital, Children's Psychiatric Hospital, Mott
Children's Hospital and the Outpatient Building. To respond to
the state-wide excess bed problem and to create greater efficiency
and utilization of the hospital, a substantial reduction in the
number of beds has been recommended.
Dr. Douglas Sarbach, Director of Hospital Planning, Resources
and Development, discussed the Certificate of Need documents
for the main hospital replacement and the renovation of Old
St. Joseph Mercy Hospital plant, and reviewed the cost components of each.
The Regents discussed the financing of the projects and the
implementation of the plan.
Regent Baker was assured that a specific site had not been
selected for the Burn Center. The question of a separate site
versus an integrated facility could not be decided at this point.




JANUARY MEETING, 1979


175


In response to a question by Regent Roach, Dr. Dalston said
that if the project does not receive the State's approval, it will
not go forward.
Regent Dunn moved that the two proposals: the replacement
and renovation of selected components of University Hospital and
the renovation of Old St. Joseph Mercy Hospital plant be approved, and that the applications for Certificate of Need for each
program be submitted to the State's review authorities. Regent
Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of November 16 and 17, 1978 were
approved with certain specified changes.
The minutes of the December 14 and 15, 1978 meeting were
deferred pending amendments suggested by Regent Baker.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff filed a quarterly report of Expendable Restricted Fund Budgets. It is summarized below:
Budgets in the amount of $19,377,203 have been initiated for accounts
and activities of the Expendable Restricted Fund since the meeting of
October 20, 1978. The following is a summary of the budgets initiated since
the last meeting, and for 1978-79 to date (six months). Also, there is a review
of activities for October-December 1977 and for 1977-78 to date (six
months).
Oct.-Dec.  Oct.-Dec.
1977       1978
1. Instructional Programs.......................$ 4,239,830 $ 5,011,046
2. Research Grants and Contracts................ 15,515,256  12,796,918
3. Student Aid (Fellowships, Scholarships, Grants)  1,594,191  570,074
4. Student Activities..........................             5,000
5. State and Public Services.....................  59,393   994,165
6. Administrative and Service Activities.............
7. Annuitants........................................
TOTAL.................................$21,408,670  $19,377,203
1977-78     1978-79
(6 mos.)   (6 mos.)
1. Instructional Programs.......................$12,299,850 $12,036,186
2. Research Grants and Contracts................ 30,607,390  29,581,162
3. Student Aid (Fellowships, Scholarships, Grants)  4,058,425  2,435,511
4. Student Activities...........................               5,000
5. State and Public Services.....................  68,193  1,450,624
6. Administrative and Service Activities...............
7. Annuitants.............................
TOTAL......$47,033,858 $45,508,483




176


JANUARY MEETING, 1979


Within each category, the source of funds for each budget is indicated
and a summary of these sources follows:
Oct.-Dec.  Oct.-Dec.
1977       1978
1. Federal Government........................ $16,653,223  $17,253,596
2. State and Local Government..................  399,076      36,696
3. Industry and Individuals..................... 1,417,900  1,170,046
4. Foundations................................ 1,119,990    602,658
5. Endowment Income......................... 1,546,983       305,906
6. Program Charges and Fees..................    271,498       8,301
TOTAL.................................$21,408,670  $19,377,203
1977-78     1978-79
(6 mos.)    (6 mos.)
1. Federal Government.........................$38,242,205 $36,092,334
2. State and Local Government..................  691,992     350,234
3. Industry and Individuals..................... 2,196,165  2,908,676
4. Foundations................................. 2,349,716   2,846,225
5. Endowment Income.......................... 3,250,962     3,281,713
6. Program Charges and Fees...................   302,818      29,301
TOTAL.................................$47,033,858 $45,508,483
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investments transactions, temporary investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations. He also filed a
quarterly report on non-competitive purchases over $1,000 from
single sources.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on the Office
of University Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Gifts    Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from      the following
sources. They were accepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Aeroquip Foundation, Jackson, for the President Gerald R. Ford
Library fund..........................................$  5,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York, for the
American Cancer Society funds.........................  18,210.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn, for the Michigan Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds.................  7,499.98
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids, for the Engineering Capital
Campaign-Undesignated fund...........................   10,000.00
Charles F. and Esther H. Bird, Holland for the following funds:
College of Literature, Science & the Arts fund.............  705.00
Nitrification Research-Borchardt fund....................  6,000.00
Charles B. DeVlieg Foundation, Royal Oak, for the Mechanical
Engineering  Special  fund...............................  11,150.00
Mrs. Leland I. Doan, Detroit, for the Alumni Center fund..... 30,000.00
Dow Chemical Company, Midland Division, Midland, for the
Dow Chemical Company-Groves fund....................     8,866.50
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor, for the Earhart FoundationNess fund.............................................   6,013.00




JANUARY MEETING, 1979


177


Ford Motor Company, Ypsilanti, for the Engineering Minority
Support  fund..........................................  10,483.00
Ford Motor Company Fund, Ford Fund Educational Aid Program, Dearborn, for the Law School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted  fund........................................  50,000.00
Ford Motor Company, Operations Accounting, Milan, for the
following funds:
Engineering Minority Support Program fund.............  10,483.00
University of Michigan-Dearborn, Mechanical Engineering
Senior Study  Program   fund..............................  5,000.00
Galen's Medical Society, Ann Arbor, for the Galen's Workshop
fund.................................................  11,000.00
Gannett Newspaper Foundation, Inc., Rochester, New York, for
the Media and the Law Conference fund..................  6,000.00
General Electric Company, Carboloy Systems Division, Detroit,
for the Various Industrial Sponsors-Colwell fund..........  5,000.00
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York, for the
Grant Foundation-Fraiberg fund......................... 25,000.00
Jack Haines Company, Detroit, for the following funds:
Letourneau Cancer Research fund........................  10,000.00
Letourneau Diabetes Research fund......................  10,000.00
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek, for the W. K. Kellogg
Foundation-Dual fund..................................  142,439.00
Kenny-Michigan Rehabilitation Foundation, Detroit, for the
Kenny Foundation-Department of Physical Medicine fund..  5,656.00
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, for the following
funds:
Internal Medicine Infectious Diseases Research fund........  5,000.00
Midwest Student Medical Research Forum fund..........  1,250.00
Michigan Foundation for Medical and Health Education, Lansing,
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship in Graduate Medical
Education  fund........................................  8,050.00
Mosbacher Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas, for the President
Gerald  R. Ford  Library  fund............................  5,000.00
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint, for the Charles Stewart
Mott Foundation-Clarke fund........................... 64,702.00
National Fund for Minority Engineering Students, New York,
New York, for the National Fund for Minority Engineering
fund..................................................  6,625.00
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York, for the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society-Payne fund.......... 17,641.00
Naval Architects and Marine Engineers Society, New York, New
York, for the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineering  Scholarship  fund...............................  11,000.00
Ransom Medical Education and Medical Research Foundation,
Ann Arbor, for the Frederick Gerald Ransom Memorial fund  20,000.00
Schlumberger Foundation, Houston, Texas, for the Schlumberger
Foundation-Collegiate Scholarship fund..................  7,000.00
Jay H. Schmidt Estate, for the following funds:
Clements  Library  fund.................................  7,500.00
Dr. Alfred H. White Memorial fund.....................  7,500.00
Raymond Schoder Charitable Foundation, Battle Creek, for the
Schoder Foundation-Clef Palate Clinic fund..............  6,000.00
E. R. Squibb and Sons, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey, for the
Hypertension  Research  fund............................  12,584.50
Supreme Council 33RD Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation
of the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction, Lexington, Massachusetts, for the Scottish Rite Schizophrenia Research-Gnegv
fund..................................................  5.750.00




178


JANUARY MEETING, 1979


Tanner Lecture Trust, for the Obert C. Tanner Lecture in Philosophy  fund..........................................  6,000.00
A. Alfred Taubman, Troy, for the Medical Center Library fund 100,000.00
United Cerebral Palsy Association of Michigan, Inc., Flint, for the
United Cerebral Palsy-Gilman fund......................  6,870.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, for the following funds:
Lipid Metabolism  fund................................  4,627.00
Upjohn Company-Good fund...........................      3,603.78
Upjohn Company-Voorhees fund.......................      4,000.00
W UOM    fund..........................................  25.00
Hazen E. Watson Estate, for the Hazen E. Watson Medical School
fund..................................................  182,482.03
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mrs. George G. Cameron, Ann Arbor. Potlatch Corporation common stock, divided as follows:
Clements Library Associates fund........................  100.00
Nicolaus Copernicus (Mikolaj Kopernik) Collegiate Professorship Endowment fund...........................     100.00
President Gerald R. Ford Library fund...................  51,412.50
Museum    of Art fund...................................  100.00
W UOM    fund..........................................   100.00
Schlumberger Foundation, Houston, Texas. Schlumberger Limited
common stock, for the Schlumberger Professorship fund... 217,812.50
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Bendix Corporation, Teterboro, New Jersey. One Hitachi HV-11,
electron microscope; for the Biophysics Research Division of
the Institute of Science and Technology
Paul K. Berg, M.D., Newport Beach, California. Fifty School of
Paris, signed lithographs, for the School of Art
William M. Cruickshank, Ann Arbor. A book entitled: Aphasic
Children: Identification and Education by the Associated
Method, by Mildred A. McGinnis; for the Institute for the
Study of Mental Retardation and Related Disabilities
Mrs. David M. Dennison, Ann Arbor. A framed etching: "Veduta
Dell Arco Di Costantino," by Giovanni-Battista Piranesi; for
the Kelsey Museum
Mrs. Nancy S. Drew, Niles. A mixed media painting: "Ethel, Before Church," for the School of Art
Jarrold C. Patterson, M.D., Royal Oak. One Cushman golf cart,
for Camp Michigania
Paul Bick and Debora Shaw, Indianapolis, Indiana. One hundred
tulip bulbs; for the Residential College
Mrs. Barbara A. Wagner, Ann Arbor. Sixty-five 35mm    color
slides; for the Department of the History of Art
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
Personnel Actions  The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
Appointments        NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective January 1, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
George H. Blackford, Ph.D., Associate Professor and Chairman of the
Department of Economics, without tenure, UM-Flint, for a three-year
term




JANUARY MEETING, 1979


179


Philip Brickman, Ph.D., Director of the Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute of Social Research, and Professor of Psychology, with
tenure
Frank Falkner, M.D., Professor of Maternal and Child Health, with tenure,
April 1, 1979
Valdis V. Liepa, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, without tenure
H. Marvin Pollard, M.D, Professor Emeritus, appointed as a consultant
to the Department of Internal Medicine, July 1, 1978
Leroy B. Townsend, Ph.D., Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure,
College of Pharmacy, and Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science and the Arts
The Regents approved the recommendation to establish the              College of
Pharmacy,
position of Associate Dean for Clinical Sciences in the College           Associate Dean
of Pharmacy.                                                              Estabised
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                      Promotions. etc.
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Donald R. Deskins, Professor of Geography, also appointed Associate Dean
of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, January 1, 1979
Leroy R. Riley, from Assistant Director for Finance, to Director of the Fiscal
Division, University Hospital, January 22, 1979
David Southwell, from Manager of Reimbursement and Rate Setting, to
Assistant Director for Finance, University Hospital, January 22, 1979
The Regents approved an extension of a leave of absence
without salary for Associate Professor Donald E. Thompson,
University of Michigan-Flint.
The following committee appointments were approved:
Institute of Gerontology Executive Board
Dean Robert Metcalf, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, January 1,  Committee
1979 to December 31, 1981                                            Appointments
Dean Richard Remington, to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
January 1, 1979 to December 31, 1981
Professor Emeritus Fedele Fauri, for a term beginning immediately to December 30, 1980, to complete unexpired term of Professor Nellie M.
Varner, on leave
Michigan Historical Collections Executive Committee
Dr. Richard M. Dougherty, for a five-year term, beginning immediately to
October 31, 1983, vice Dr. Frederick Wagman, term expired
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:         Personnel Reports
NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                        Appointments
Effective January 1, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Elizabeth Mutschler, Ph.D., Social Work
Christopher Davis Roberts, Ph.D., Center for Afroamerican and African
Studies, and Anthropology, Literature, Science, and the Arts




180


JANUARY MEETING, 1979


Instructor
Susannah Joy Stockdale, M.S., Nursing, October 30, 1978
James Gordon Wilson, J.D., Law, September 18, 1978
Visiting Professor.
Benjamin Aaron, L.L.B., Law
Luiz Olavo Baptista, L.L.B, Law
Alexander Jerry Kresge, Ph.D., Chemistry
Richard Lawrence Schacht, Ph.D., Philosophy
Nathaniel Wing, Ph.D., French
Visiting Assistant Professor
Philip Stuart Kitcher, Ph.D., Philosophy
Jon Christian Teaford, Ph.D., History
Clinical Assistant Professor
George Arthur Dean, M.D., Family Practice, November 1, 1978
Clinical Instructor
Dan Justin Witt, D.D.S., Dentistry, October 1, 19.78
Adjunct Lecturer
Paul R. Dimond, J.D., Law
Richard Glenn Loomis, M.A., Education, September 1, 1978
Prmnotions  CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
Kathleen A. Hoffer, from Lecturer to Instructor in Nursing, September 1,
1978
Deborah J. Oakley, from Assistant Professor of Community Health Programs to Assistant Professor of Nursing
Constantine N. Papadakis, from Adjunct Assistant Professor to Adjunct
Associate Professor of Civil Engineering
Francis M. Webster, from Instructor in Management to Assistant Professor
of Business Administration, UM-Flint, September 1, 1978
Resignations    TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective on dates indicated
Janice Lynn Beaty, Instructor in Nursing, UM-Flint, December 31, 1978
Philip G. Cramer, Instructor in Internal Medicine, September 22, 1978
John C. Heffelfinger, Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics, September 25,
1978
Ravi Parameswaran, Assistant Professor of Business Administration, UMDearborn, December 31, 1978
Harvey V. Sparks, Professor of Physiology, December 31, 1978
Peter B. Taylor, Instructor in Anesthesiology, December 8, 1978
Li-Chih Wu, Visiting Instructor in Surgery, November 30, 1978
Leaves of Absence   Four off-campus assignments, sixteen leaves of absence without
salary, seventy sabbatical leaves, two medical leaves, and five
retirement furloughs were reported to the Regents.




JANUARY MEETING, 1979


181


VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of one faculty
member. The following memoir was adopted.
WARREN A. KETCHAM, Professor of Education, retired from active
faculty status at The University of Michigan on December 31, 1978.
Professor Ketcham has been a member of the University community
for forty-eight years, first as a student and later as a distinguished faculty
member and a certified practicing psychologist. He earned the B.M. degree
in the School of Music in 1932. Prior to World War II he taught in the public
schools of Michigan. During World War II he served overseas in Australia,
New Guinea, and the Philippine Islands. Following military service, he returned to The University of Michigan and received his M.A. degree in 1947
and his Ph.D. in 1951. In 1950 he began his work as a school psychologist
and school psychological diagnostician. In 1953 he joined the School of
Education as a faculty member for the University School. He was granted a
Fulbright Award in 1959 and lectured in child development at the University
of Leeds, England. He also served as a visiting professor at the University
of Kentucky, the University of Louisville, Indiana University, Utah State
University and as a research consultant in the American School, Guatemala
City, Guatemala. His extensive research in child development directed his
interest and teaching more and more to the gifted and talented child and
he became a leader in the state and the nation as a consultant for schools,
parent groups, parents and students in recognizing and working with gifted
children.
Professor Ketcham is a fellow in the American Psychological Association,
a member of the Michigan Psychological Association, Michigan Association
of School Psychologists and the Michigan Society of Consulting Psychologists.
He is also a member of the National Register of Health Service Providers in
Psychology as well as a Certified Consulting Psychologist in the states of
Michigan and Texas.
The versatility of his training and experience enabled him to offer consultation services to both public schools and private industry in advising
personnel staff in hiring and promotion decisions. He is presently serving
as a personnel consultant, American Petrofina, Incorporated, Dallas, Texas.
In recognition of his outstanding service to The University of Michigan,
the fields of child development and school psychology, the Regents now
salute this distinguished educator by naming him Professor Emeritus of
Education.


W. A. Ketcham,
Retirement


VII. DEATHS
Vice-President Shapiro reported the death of Stewart H.
Rewoldt, Professor of Marketing, to the Regents. A memorial
statement will be submitted at the February meeting.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Degree Lists
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists: Amended




182


J,1tNUARY MEETING, 1979


Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, August 1978
Education
add:
Sandra Lee Haddad, B.A., Oakland University
Maryion Tennie Lindsey Lee, A.B.
delete:
John Francis Villanacci, A.B., Queens College of The City University
of New York
Master of Science, August 1978
Education
add:
Florence Eudora Raub, B.S., Ferris Institute
John Francis Villanacci, A.B., Queens College of The City University
of New York
Remote Sensing
add:
Frederick Emilio Sleator, B.S.
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Science, August 1978
add:
Jeffrey Allen Petrinitz
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Master of Science in Engineering, August 1978
Electrical Engineering
add:
Josef Mack, B.S.E. (EE)
Davis Lawrence Olane, B.S.(E.E.), Wayne State University


Governmental
Immunity Medical
Malpractice
Fees, Criteria for
Special Collection
of,


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the University to
invoke governmental immunity as a defense of a medical malpractice case (Mary Lou LeFevere). Regent Laro seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
The Regents received the following revised Criteria for Use
in Considering Requests from Student Organizations for Access
to the University's Student Billing Services for Special Fee
Collections:
1. A student organization requesting collection of special fees through
University student billing procedures must demonstrate student support for its goals and funding procedures in all of the following ways:




JANUARY MEETING, 1979


183


a. The organization must be registered as a "student organization"
under the rules providing for such registration by the Michigan
Student Assembly and the Office of Student Services.
b. The organization must have secured approval of its goals and
funding procedure from the Michigan Student Assembly.
c. The organization must have obtained, by petition, written support
of a majority of the student population sought to be made subject
to the fee assessment. The petition must fairly represent the organization's goals and funding procedure. Upon request by the University, the student organization has the burden of establishing the
validity of the signatures on the petition.
2. The organization must be non-partisan and demonstrate direct educational benefits in which all students at the University have an opportunity to participate. This must be attested to by written endorsements from a reasonable number of deans and department chairmen.
3. The organization must agree to reimburse the University for all administrative costs incurred in collecting the fee.
4. The amount of the fee to be collected by the University for the student
organization must not exceed $2.00 per term.
5. The organization must agree to submit to an annual audit by an independent accountant. The auditor's findings will be made available to
the University.
6. The organization must agree to a procedure which adequately protects
the rights of those students who do not wish to lend financial support
to the organization's program. If less than 25% of students choose to
financially support the organization for two consecutive terms (exclusive of summer terms), the fee collection will be discontinued. A
specific procedure will be designed for each particular proposal to
accomplish the provisions of these criteria.
X. OTHER
Regent Waters moved to approve the membership applications        Medical Staff
to the medical staff of University Hospital. Regent Roach seconded   Approved
the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents received a report on the University Hospital           ospital Patient
patient activity and operating results through November 30, 1978.            R
Vice-President Kennedy briefly reviewed the purpose of the        Ann Arbor
Summer Theatre
proposed Ann Arbor Summer Theatre Festival and asked their           Festival
approval of the recommended six University representatives to the
Board of Directors. He said that it had been clearly stressed that
the University's participation would carry no funding commitment,
and that any use of University facilities would be dependent upon
the adaptability of the festival to the summer program of the
University's theatre department.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the University's representatives to the Board of Directors of the Ann Arbor Summer Theatre
Festival, Inc. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted with Regent Laro voting no, Regent Power abstaining




184


JANUARY MEETING, 1979


from the discussion and the vote, and Regent Baker abstaining
from the vote.
Budget, Statu  The Regents received a status report of the 1978-79 General
Report Fund Budget.
Property Rights  The Regents received a report on ownership of patents, copyrights, computer software, and other property rights which will
be resubmitted to the Regents in February.
closed Meetifng,  Regent Roach moved to meet in closed session to discuss
certain property acquisitions and an audit report involving personnel actions. Regent Laro seconded the motion and it was
adopted with Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn, Laro, Nederlander,
Power, Roach, and Waters voting affirmatively.
The meeting was adjourned.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 19, 1979
The meeting reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Laro,
Nederlander, Power, Roach and Waters. Chancellors Goodall and
Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro, and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present. Regent Dunn was absent.
Dining Hall  President Smith commented that the document concerning a
onsolidation dining commons for the Hill area residence halls responds to the
request for information on savings that might be generated by
amortizing the project over a thirty-year period.
Mr. Smith indicated that the original loan application provided
for energy conservation and consolidation of the dining halls. Since
the dining commons concept was not endorsed by the Regents, a
request to seek approval from HUD to apply the total loan to
energy conservation purposes was now before the Board.
Housing Division  Regent Roach moved to approve the Housing Division Energy
Energy Reduction
Program  Reduction Program and to authorize completion of Part II of the
HUD loan application. Regent Waters seconded the motion and
it was adopted.
Alumni Buildings  Vice-President Brinkerhoff introduced Mr. Robert Forman,
Architect Selectd Executive Director of the Alumni Association, Mrs. Margaret
Host, Mr. Clarence Roy, and Mr. Robert Briggs, members of the
architectural selection committee for the proposed Alumni Building.
Mr. Forman described the process by which the committee
reviewed and assessed the architectural firms for the project. They
felt that a special sensitivity and design skill was required for




JANUARY MEETING, 1979


185


the particular site, therefore, they were resubmitting their selection of the Hugh Jacobsen Associates.
Regent Roach moved to approve proceeding with the project
and to authorize the appointment of Hugh Jacobsen Associates
as the architect for the Alumni Building. Regent Power seconded
the motion and it was adopted with Regent Laro abstaining.
Dr. Jeptha Dalston reviewed the program proposal to con- Department of
solidate the Department of Ophthalmology's patient care, educa-  hthonsolidation
tion and research functions at the Parkview Hospital/Turner
Clinic facility. If approved a Certificate of Need application would
be submitted to the review authorities in February.
Discussion of the financial aspects followed. The Regents were
assured that construction would not commence until funding was
available.
Regent Roach moved to approve in principle the consolidation
of Ophthalmology Patient Services, Education, and Research as
recommended; to authorize studies necessary to determine feasibility of fund-raising for the consolidation effort; and to authorize
submission of the Certificate of Need application for consolidation
of patient services in the Parkview Hospital/Turner Clinic facility
to include a fund-raising endeavor for Part A of the program
proposal. Regent Laro seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Power questioned the original purposes for which the
Turner Geriatric Clinic had been established. She commented upon
the special nature of the services currently being offered by the
Turner Clinic. Regent Power expressed the view that there is a
major opportunity for the University to take a leadership role in
developing a broad base geriatric program involving teaching,
research and service.
Regent Power qualified her support of the motion made by
Regent Roach requesting that a proposal for a Geriatric-Medical
program be brought to the Regents in the next six months.
President Smith reviewed the proposal for the diagnostic radiology improvements program. He stated that funding would come
from internal sources accumulated through the Hospital's cost
containment efforts and better utilization of funds.
Regent Laro moved to approve the proposal for Diagnostic  Diagnostic
Radiology Capital Improvements program and that application  Radiology
for Certificate of Need be submitted to the review authorities.
Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach read the following resolution and moved its
approval.
The Regents of the University take this opportunity to express their Michigan Union
commendation to the present and past members of the Michigan Union  Resolution 
Commending




186


JANUARY MEETING, 1979


Board of Directors for their dedicated efforts on behalf of the students,
faculty, and alumni of The University of Michigan.
Throughout its history, the Board of Directors has sought to foster and
strengthen the bonds of loyalty and friendship that have become so integral
a part of the traditions of the University. In that effort they have excelled.
So too have they demonstrated equal diligence in managing the Michigan
Union Building. Through the efforts of the Board that facility has long since
become a part of the very fabric of the institution.
The Regents, therefore, extend their thanks and deep appreciation to the
Directors of the Union, both individually and severally, for their significant
contributions to the life of the University, its students, staff, and alumni.
Regent Baker seconded the motion and it was adopted.
All the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of December totaled $427.64.
The Regents adjourned to meet on February 15 and 16, 1979.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary
INDEX
Alumni Building, architect selected, 184
Ann Arbor Summer Theatre Festival, University's representatives to Board
of Directors, 183
Appointments, 178, 179; committee, 179
Closed meeting, motion for, 184
Degrees: lists amended, 181
Diagnostic Radiology, 185
Dining Hall consolidation, 184
Fees, criteria for special collection of, 182
General Fund Budget, status report, 184
Gifts, 176
Governmental immunity, malpractice case, 182
Hospital: Certificate of Need, 174; patient activity report, 183
Housing Division Energy Reduction Program, 184
Ketcham, W. A., retirement, 181
Leaves of absence, 179, 180
Medical staff memberships approved, 183
Michigan Union: transfer of governance, 171; hotel, 173; resolution commending Board of Directors, 185
Ophthalmology, Department of, consolidation, 185
Pharmacy, College of, establishment of Associate Dean position, 179
Promotions, 179, 180
Property rights, 184
Resignations, 180
St. Joseph Hospital Plant, Certificate of Need, 174




JANUARY MEETING, 1979


187


HONORARY DEGREES
Characterizations by Professor Emeritus Frank Huntley
Conferred December 17, 1978
KENNETH EWART BOULDING
Economist, Philosopher, Poet
Since Kenneth Boulding, of the University of Colorado at
Boulder, was Professor of Economics at The University of Michigan for twenty years, we may claim him as our own. Here, stimulated by our Institute for Social Research, he was able to go
"beyond economics" into the philosophical and psychological
problems, ranging from consumer-behavior to war-and-peace, of
conflict resolution.
Honors soon followed: the John B. Clark medal for Economics,
the American Council of Learned Societies' prize in the Humanities,
the Presidency of the American Association, memberships in the
National Academy of Science and the American Philosophical
Society. He has been visiting Professor at the University College of
Kingston, Jamaica; the University of Natal; the University of
Edinburgh; and the International Christian University in Tokyo.
He is at home in the world as well as the universe.
A member of the Society of Friends, Professor Boulding has
carried his religious commitment into the practice of love to
achieve through his more than thirty challenging books goals heretofore deemed unattainable. Early he discovered that the actual
writing of poetry is a whetstone with which to sharpen one's
English prose. Out of his discipline, his humanity, and his faith,
Kenneth Boulding, to quote one of his own "eiconic" phrases from
The Image, has built a true "Temple of the Mind."
With admiration and love, therefore, The University of Michigan bestows upon him the degree Doctor of Laws.
ROY HARRIS JENKINS
British Labour Politician, Biographer-Historian, Leader of the
"Common Market"
Mr. Jenkins' father was a coal miner in Wales, then a labor
union official, and finally private secretary to Clement Attlee.
Thus from boyhood Roy Jenkins walked and talked among the
highest reaches of British executive politics. At the age of seventeen he won a scholarship to Balliol College, Oxford, and took a
First Class in Economics. Emerging from the war as Captain in
Intelligence, he revived his interest in politics, and, despite an
initial defeat, became with the endorsement of the Prime Minister
the youngest member of the House of Common. In economic
theory and practice on the moderate wing of the Labour Party,
he accomplished such retrenchment as Minister of Aviation under
Harold Wilson that he was made Home Secretary and two years
later Chancellor of the Exchequer.




188


JANUARY MEETING, 1979


God endows all Welshmen at birth with the gifts of words and
music, and early in his career Mr. Jenkins took up writing. Among
his many books he is especially acclaimed for the biographies of
the Victorian Liberal Sir Charles Dilke and of Prime Ministers
Herbert Asquith and Arthur Balfour. His English prose in essays,
political biography, and modern British history is characterized
by a deft precision and grace.
Though second in command in the Labour Government, he
broke with Wilson and his party on the issue of Britain's entry
into the "Common Market," thus sacrificing assured advantages
in national politics for the less certain ideal of international cooperation. Today he is the brilliant and trusted President of the
Commission of the European Communities at Brussels. Happily,
therefore, The University of Michigan salutes with the degree
Doctor of Laws Roy Harris Jenkins, a neighbor and a man of
talent and principle.
SAMUEL CHAO CHUNG TING
Michigan Alumnus, Ambassador between Two Cultures, 1976
Nobel Laureate in Physics
Two months after Samuel Ting was born in Ann Arbor, he was
taken back to China by his parents, both professors, to whom,
with his grandmother, he attributes, in the tradition of filial piety,
the beginnings of his life of science. Returning to Michigan at the
age of twenty with little English and only one hundred dollars,
he was given support by the late Dean G. G. Brown of Engineering; and in less than six years earned at our University the degrees
of B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. He is a Professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology and member of many scientific societies.
Working with electron-positron pairs at the Deutsches Elektronen-Synchrotron in Hamburg and at the Brookhaven National
Laboratory, Dr. Ting played a major role in a series of experiments
in the field of electro-magnetic interactions: and in the Fall of
1974 found evidence of a totally new "J Particle." For this he was
awarded at the age of forty the Nobel Prize in Physics.
Throughout his research on both sides of the Atlantic, by
retaining his personal and professional ties with his ancestral
heritage in Taiwan and on the Mainland, Dr. Ting has joined the
newest and most abstruse theories of Western science to the ancient
Chinese genius for wisdom, gentleness, patience, and beauty. Selflessly he acknowledges the help of dozens of colleagues, often with
the revealing notation, "Professor X has extremely good taste in
Physics."
Hence with affection and pride we honor ourselves by honoring
with the degree Doctor of Science this eminent Michigan-trained
Chinese-American pioneer.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1979
The Regents met at 1:15 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Dunn, Laro,
Nederlander, Power and Roach. Chancellor Moran and VicePresidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger, Radock, Shapiro and
Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also were present. Regents
Brown and Waters and Chancellor Goodall were absent.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the salient points of the  Twelve Month
Investment
twelve month investment review. He noted several corrections in  Review
the investment report which are noted in the material on file with
the Secretary. Vice-President Brinkerhoff then introduced Donald
A. Lindow and Melvin D. Rousek, investment counsel for the
University from the National Bank of Detroit. Both commented
on the overall performance of the various University endowment
funds.
Regents Baker and Laro asked about the wisdom of maintaining investments in common stocks given their relatively poor
performance as opposed to higher return short-term securities.
Counsel responded that common stock investment is still a sound
long-term investment policy. Mr. Norman Herbert, University
Investment Officer, added that the University did move to some
extent to more short-term securities and perhaps should have done
more. He noted that this was also a good time to take advantage
of the relatively good buys in the equity market.
Regent Laro asked if consideration had been given to taking
advantage of the options market. Counsel responded that there are
varying opinions on the advantages of trading in options. Regent
Laro asked for more detailed information on the pros and cons
of the options market. Regent Roach also asked for an assessment
of a fiduciary's responsibilities in dealing in this type of market.
Regent Power asked whether the University should continue
to maintain its practice of keeping up to 60-65% of its investments in stocks as opposed to other securities. Some discussion
followed concerning our relative investment performance vis-a-vis
other institutional investors. Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated
that the results of an evaluation report comparing the University's


189




190


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


performance and practices with other institutional investors will
be provided to the Regents.
Common Stock  Regent Nederlander then moved to approve the recommendation to maintain a common stock ratio at approximately 60% of
the total assets at market value with the balance of the portfolio
invested in fixed income obligations for the Major Endowment
Funds, and a common stock objective of 65%  for the Fund
Functioning as Endowment. The motion was seconded by Regent
Dunn and adopted.
On a motion by Regent Baker and seconded by Regent Laro
the recommendation was adopted which authorizes the University
Officers to act independently of the Regents and vote against
management proposals when review by the Bank and the University of proxy materials clearly indicates a dilution of the University's financial interest as a stockholder, and the adoption of the
guidelines as outlined for routine proxy items.
Discussion then ensued on the recommendation that the stocks
of Dresser Industries, Inc., Johnson Controls, Inc., and MortonNorwich Products, Inc., be added to the approved list for possible
later investment by the University.
Investments in  In view of the Regental policy of March, 1978 regarding companies doing business in South Africa, Regent Power argued that
the University should inquire about a company's involvement and
practices in South Africa before they are added to the approved
list.
Additions to   Regent Baker moved that the stocks of Dresser Industries,
Approved Common
Stock List Inc., Johnson Controls, Inc., and Morton-Norwich Products, Inc.,
be added to the approved list as recommended. Regent Laro
seconded the motion.
Regent Power moved to table the motion. The motion failed
for lack of a second.
Regent Power indicated that she felt it appropriate to delay
action until the University could inquire whether or not Dresser
Industries had investments in South Africa and had been responsive to inquiries regarding its employment practice in South Africa.
Regent Roach commented that in his view a more appropriate
time to make such inquiries would be as a potential investor. Thus
he concluded that the University would be in a better position if
the company's stock was on the approved list.
The motion was approved with Regent Power voting no.
In response to an inquiry, the Regents indicated that they
expected a report on compliance with the March 1978 policy on
investments in October of each year. They also asked for an update
on pending matters noted in the October 1978 report.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


191


Chancellor Moran then went through a detailed presentation on
the schematic designs for the Flint Classroom-Laboratory Building
and for the University Plaza. On a motion by Regent Laro,
seconded by Regent Nederlander the designs were approved with
authorization to proceed with preliminary drawings for the Plaza
and design development of the Classroom-Laboratory Building
pending design approval by the Joint Capital Outlay Committee
of the Legislature and their authorization and funding for additional design work. Regent Baker abstained from the vote.
Vice-President Johnson presented the recommendation for
single student housing rates for 1979-80 which represented an
average 6.9%    increase over the current year. Housing office
officials, Robert Hughes and Norman Snustad, then commented
via charts on the relative single student housing cost increases for
the past ten years noting that they had not increased as fast as
the Consumer Price Index for the period.
On a motion by Regent Nederlander, seconded by Regent
Dunn the rate recommendations were approved.
Regent Dunn noted his recollection on the issue of food boycotts that such decisions were to be left to the individual housing
units rather than becoming a housing office decision. Other Regents
concurred.
Regent Baker stated his hope that the students would recall
that the Regents supported their position on the food consolidation
plan when they think about this rate increase.
Regent Baker then read into the record the following statement
concerning the recent cancellation of the Russian Art Exhibition
at the University.
"The Soviet Union's abrupt cancellation of the Russian Art Exhibit, for
purely political reasons, is interference by a foreign government with the
rights of free inquiry and academic freedom at a public University in the
United States and is completely unacceptable to The University of Michigan.
"The University of Michigan has a proud history of hearing voices of
dissent from diverse political viewpoints. It is entirely inappropriate that a
foreign government should attempt to influence freedom of expression in
America through its actions. It is my understanding the Soviet government
cancelled an exhibition of Russian art and would not honor a long planned
agreement with the University for lending the Russian artworks because
Josef Brodsky, a poet in residence at the University, and a former Russian
citizen, was to participate in a program called the Festival of Russian Arts
planned by the Center for Russian and East European Studies at The Universty of Michigan, and because a short quotation of Alexandr Solzhenitsyn, a
Soviet exile, was included in the festival brochure.
"The Regents of the University are supportive of the administration's
action rejecting the Soviet government actions. Freedom of inquiry and
academic freedom at this University is basic to America's concept of a free
society and attempts to limit those freedoms, and must be rejected by all
who stand for freedom. Other American Universities would be well served
to reject any conditions placed upon them by the Soviet government in
return for the right to exhibit Russian artworks."


Classroom-Laboratory Building.
University PlazaFlint
Single Student
Housing Rates


Russian Art
Exhibition




192


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


Minority Student
Enrollment


Vice-President Shapiro, Associate Vice-President English and
George Goodman, Director of the Opportunity Program, then
presented the annual minority student enrollment report.
Vice-President Shapiro noted the University's long history of
minority student enrollment which preceded any special program
efforts in this direction. In the past decade the University has
undertaken a very ambitious program to increase enrollment opportunities for large numbers of minority students. While this
program has been largely successful, Vice-President Shapiro stated
that he was not completely satisfied with our results to date. His
assessment had led inevitably to question whether everything
possible was being done in the areas of recruitment and retention.
He concluded that to achieve the University's objectives reassessment of the University's resource commitment must be a continuous process; coordination between instructional units and
support service units must be improved; and the University community as a whole must develop plans to assist minority and other
students to succeed at the University.
Mr. Goodman commented on the need for faculty and staff
members to learn more about the background of disadvantaged
students so that University programs could be better adapted to
their needs.
Regent Baker suggested that Education schools undertake
teacher training efforts among secondary schools to better prepare
more students for University level work.
Regent Power emphasized the need to reach families of potential students to attempt to help them with an overall understanding of The University of Michigan experience whether attending
as a residential or non-residential student. She suggested that the
predominantly residential character of the Ann Arbor Campus
may pose special problems for some prospective minority students.
Dr. English responded that residential living in Ann Arbor was
indeed a very difficult adjustment for many.
The Regents complimented Vice-President Shapiro and his
staff on a well presented report.
The Regents then heard from the following individuals as part
of the Public Comments portion of the meeting: Ruth Campbell,
Barbara Chenowith, Margaret Young and Dorothy Robb concerning the Turner Clinic; Bruce Kozarsky, Jeffrey Cox and Mervat
Hatem concerning tenure; and Kate Rubin concerning University
investments.


Public Comments


Closed Meeting,  On recommendation of Interim President Smith, Regent Laro
otion for moved to hold a closed meeting to consider an audit report involving a personnel matter. The motion was seconded by Regent




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


193


Roach and adopted with Regents Baker, Dunn, Laro, Nederlander,
Power and Roach voting yes.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1979
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Power and Roach. Chancellors Goodall and
Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro, and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present. Regent Waters was absent.
Vice-President Radock presented a special report on the cur- Fund Raising
rent status of private fundraising at the University. He emphasized  Report
the need for increased activity in order to sustain and increase the
University's revenues from private sources. He suggested that
increased support from corporations and foundations and nonalumni friends looked especially promising if new initiatives could
be undertaken. The new initiatives suggested were: 1) expanded
staff and services; 2) strengthening school and college giving
programs; 3) building a base of student support that would insure
higher levels of future alumni support; 4) increase volunteer
leadership among alumni, faculty, students and staff.
The Regents then heard comments from Messrs. George Slykhouse, Glenn Bixby and Dr. Harry Towsley strongly supporting
the need for increased effort in developing our private philanthropy potential. All of these gentlemen had served the University
as alumni leaders in the development area for many years.
Regent Nederlander thanked all of the participants for an
excellent presentation noting his hope that a concrete recommendation for increased activity would be forthcoming shortly.
Regent Roach noted that ideally funding for development
activities should come from non-general funds.
President Smith indicated that funding was a problem and that
approximately half of the development budget had to come from
general funds since there was not sufficient undesignated gift
monies.
Regent Baker commented the alumni emphasizing the need
to recruit new volunteers of the same stature of the individuals
participating in this presentation.
A subsequent proposal will be developed to implement increased activity.
Chancellor Moran presented his recommendations to authorize  Flint Television
the hiring of Grainger and Associates of Flint to design the tele- TraeSeected,                                                  Architect Selected




194


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


vision transmitter building on the leased site in Atlas Township,
Genessee County. The authorization was approved on a motion
by Regent Power and seconded by Regent Laro. Regent Baker
asked for more information on the details of the land lease which
will be supplied by Chancellor Moran.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of December 14 and 15, 1978 were
approved with certain specified changes.
The minutes of the meeting of January 18 and 19, 1979 with
corrections from Regent Power were approved.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, temporary investments, plant extension, litigation, and personnel-labor relations.
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on the Office
of University Relations and Development.
Ill. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Gifts    Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from    the following
sources. They were accepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Ilene M. Allen Estate, to establish the George Henry Allen
Memorial fund.........................................$  5,000.00
Amax Foundation, Inc., New York, New York, for the Amax
Foundation funds......................................   7,500.00
American Cancer Society Inc., New York, New York, for American  Cancer  Society  funds...............................  17,210.00
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, for the Amoco Foundation  Fellowship  fund..................................  6,500.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn, for Michigan
Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds......................  7,499.98
Baker, Hostetler and Patterson, Cleveland, Ohio, for the Law
School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund..............  5,000.00
William J. Banyon, Jr., Benton Harbor, for the following funds:
Athletic Scholarships fund...............................  3,500.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........  5,000.00
Grace Baribeau Estate, for the Medical School fund...........  5,000.00
Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, New Jersey, for the following funds:
CICE-Industrial Gifts fund............................. 110,062.00
Industrial Engineering Gifts fund........................  13,764.00
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust, for The University of MichiganFlint Campus Development fund........................ 10,000.00
Ruth Henney Brown Estate, to establish the Henney-Brown
Scholarship and Loan fund............................   97,756.15




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979                          195
Mrs. Margaret M. Boutell, Flint, for the H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research  fund......................................  10,000.00
Chelsea Milling Company, Chelsea, for the following funds:
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........   5,000.00
Evoked Potential Psychophysiology Laboratory fund......  2,500.00
Parkinson's Disease Research fund.......................  5,000.00
President Gerald R. Ford Library fund...................  5,000.00
Cleveland-Cliffs Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio, for Engineering
Building Gifts fund.....................................  5,000.00
Cummins Engine Foundation, Columbus, Indiana, for the Jack E.
Charipar Fellowship in Mechanical Engineering fund......  7,000.00
Denise Foundation, Grosse Pointe, for the Law School-Law
Library Building fund..................................  5,000.00
Ervin Industries, Inc., Ann Arbor, for the following funds:
Ervin Industries fund..................................  2,500.00
Unrestricted fund....................................  2,500.00
Exxon Education Foundation, New York, New York, for the
following funds:
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund.........   600.00
Exxon Education Foundation-Kozma fund................   16,200.00
Vital Margin fund......................................  105.00
Ford Motor Company, Ypsilanti, for the Engineering Minority
Support  Program   fund.................................  10,483.33
Ford Motor Company Fund, Ford Fund Educational Aid Program, Dearborn, matching gifts for the following funds:
Athletic Scholarships fund..............................  1,112.50
Business School fund..................................    332.00
College  of Engineering  fund.............................  107.00
Dearborn Campus Annual fund.........................       25.00
East Asian Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund...........   50.00
School of Education fund...............................    20.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund.........  2,748.75
Mischa  Titiev  Library  fund............................  25.00
University Musical Society fund.........................  140.00
Unrestricted   fund......................................  50.00
Vital Margin fund......................................   495.00
WUOM    fund..........................................   140.00
William T. Grant Foundation, New York, New York, for the
Grant Foundation-Stevenson fund.......................   5,000.00
Hoffman-La Roche, Inc., Nutley, New Jersey, for the following
funds:
Hoffman-La Roche-Drug Metabolism fund............... 15,000.00
Midwest Student Medical Research Forum fund...........   1,000.00
Beatrice P. Keitzer Estate, for the Walter A. Keitzer Micturition
fund..................................................  58,000.00
Mrs. James A. Kennedy, Harbor Springs, for the Theophile
Raphael, M.D., Research fund........................... 25,000.00,
W. Eugene Lane, Romeo, for the Arthritis Research-Cassidy fund  10,000.00
Joanne H. Lowery, North Aurora, Illinois, for the Literature,
Science and the Arts-Student Assistance fund............  8,000.00'
McNamee, Porter and Seeley, Ann Arbor, for the Civil Engineering Equipment fund....................................   5,000.00,
Merck Company Foundation, Rahway, New Jersey, for the Merck
Grant for Faculty Development in Microbiology fund.... 10,000.00
Michigan Consolidated Gas Company, Detroit, for the Physical
Stress Research fund...................................  15,000.0o




196


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


Eugene Mitchell, Bloomfield Hills, for Athletic Scholarships fund  5,000.00
Palladium Publishing Company, Benton Harbor, for the following
funds:
Athletic  Scholarships  fund..............................  1,500.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........ 10,000.00
Parke, Davis and Company Detroit, for the Human Genetics
Special fund........................................... 15,000.00
Sage Foundation, Detroit, for the following funds:
Law   School fund.......................................  5,000.00
Law School-Law Library Building fund..................  10,000.00
Sasaki Associates, Inc., Watertown, Massachusetts, for the Richard
R. Bertoni Memorial fund..............................  5,000.00
Richard C. Schneider, M.D., Ann Arbor, for the Richard C.
Schneider Neurosurgical fund............................  5,000.00
Sledd Foundation, Fort Wayne, Indiana, for the Samuel D.,
Martha B. and Mabel I. Sledd Loan fund................  7,059.00
Smithkline Corporation, Philadelphia, Pensylvania, for the Hypertension Research Fellowship fund........................ 15,711.00
E. R. Squibb and Sons, Inc., East Brunswick, New Jersey, for the
Hypertension Research fund............................. 12,584,50
Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Surdam, Grosse Pointe Farms, for the
H. Marvin Pollard Medical Research fund................  5,000.00
Tinker Foundation, Inc., New York, New York, for the Tinker
Foundation-Rosenberg fund............................ 28,000.00
Townsend and Bottum, Inc., Ann Arbor, for the C. E. Bottum
fund..................................................  10,000.00
Mr. and Mrs. Troy G. Thurston, Indianapolis, Indiana, for the
President's  fund........................................  10,000.00
MaCauley and Helen Dow Whiting Foundation, Midland, to
establish the MaCauley and Helen Dow Whiting FoundationArt Education fund....................................  5,000.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mr. and Mrs. Karl Kempf, Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, Thomas
and Betts Company, common stock, divided as follows:
Athletic Scholarships fund..............................  5,000.00
President's  fund........................................  13,028.13
Dr. Donald S. Smith, Roseburg, Oregon. Dow Chemical Company,
common stock, for the President's fund..................  15,862.50
Thomas E. Sunderland, Brookline, Massachusetts. Standard Oil
Company (Indiana), common stock, for the E. R. Sunderland
Law   Professorship  fund................................  35,180.63
Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor. Dow Chemical Company,
common stock, for the President Gerald R. Ford Library fund  49,521.00
John E. Veneklasen, Ada. Great Lakes Financial, and West Driefontien, common stocks, for the President's fund..........  5,200.00
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
James D. Allen, Grosse Pointe Park. A color portrait of Dr. H.
Marvin Pollard, for the H. Marvin Pollard Institute for
Medical Research
Mrs. Frederica K. Bartz, Flint. Five books, for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Primitivo Castrillo, Greenwich, Connecticut. A book entitled:
Hermano Del Viento, by Primo Castrillo; for The University
of Michigan-Flint Campus Library




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979                        197
David A. Farrar, Ann Arbor. 157 syringes, 21 needles and 2 CC's
of Heparin; for the Department of Physical Education-School
of Education
Stanley Garn, Ann Arbor. A collection of physical anthropology
articles; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Irvin N. Gleim, Gainesville, Florida. A book entitled: CPA Examination Review, by Irvin N. Gleim, for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Donald Hugh Gray, Ann Arbor. One panel of Plexiglas, for the
Department of Civil Engineering
Warren Hecht, Ann Arbor. A Fischer of New York upright piano,
for the Residential College
K and R Foundation, Ojai, California. Four books, for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Prof. Lubomyr M. Kowal, Flint. Two books, for The University
of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Dr. Carey P. McCord, Cincinnati, Ohio. Seven books, published as
the CIBA Foundation Symposium Series, for the School of
Public Health Library
Dr. Richard J. Meister, Flint. Two books; Urban Idea in Colonial
Africa, by Sylvia Doughty Fries and Progressive Cities, by
Bradley Robert Brice; for The University of Michigan-Flint
Campus Library
Dr. Horace M. Miner, Ann Arbor. Volumes 34 through 46 of
Africa; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Dr. Sherry B. Ortner, Ann Arbor. Two books, for the Mischa
Titiev Library
Dennis Papazian, Dearborn. Seventy 35mm color slides of assorted
works of art, for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus
Library
Dr. Maxine M. Perine, Flint. A book entitled: Essays on Curriculum Development, by Arthur W. Foshay; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Dr. Philip Peter, Dearborn. Sixty-seven 35mm color slides, for The
University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus, Humanities Department
Prof. Roy A. Rappaport, Ann Arbor. 30 copies of Commentary,
13 books and one monograph, for the Mischa Titiev Library
Dr. Frank E. Ross, Flint. One copy of the General Catalogue of
The University of Michigan, 1837-1901, for The University
of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Kenneth E. Young, Washington, D.C. Four books, for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Prof. Walter M. Spink, Ann Arbor. 180 negatives and 173 color
slides, for the Archives of Asian Art-History of Art Department
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS                                               Persnnel Actions
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                         Appointments
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Russell N. DeJong, Professor Emeritus, appointed as a consultant to the
Department of Neurology, January 1, 1979




198


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


Wilbur L. Schramm, appointed as the Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor
of Journalism, November, 1978
Vitalij V. Shevoroshkin, Doctorate of Philological Sciences, Professor of
Linguistics and Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, January 1,
1979
Stefan Sonderegger, Ph.D., appointed as the Visiting Max Kade Distinguished
Professor of German, Winter Term 1979
Edward Stasheff, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts, January 5, 1979 to February 8, 1979
Wilbert Steffy, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Engineering, Winter Term, 1979
Myron E. Wegman, Dean Emeritus and Professor Emeritus, appointed to
teach in the School of Public Health, Winter Term, 1979
Promotions  CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Carl F. Berger, Professor of Education, also appointed Associate Dean of
the School of Education, February 1, 1979 to December 31, 1980
Robert L. Kahn, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Research
Scientist in the Institute for Social Research, also appointed Professor
of Medical Care Organization, without tenure, January 1, 1979
Robert B. Kozma, Assistant Research Scientist, Center for Research on
Learning and Teaching, and Assistant Professor of Education, also appointed Assistant Dean of the School of Education, February 1, 1979
to June 30, 1980
Leaves of Absence   The Regents approved an extension of a leave of absence without salary for Jane S. Schultz, Assistant Professor of Human
Genetics.
Committee     The following committee appointments were approved:
Appointments
School of Education Executive Committee
Professor Joseph Payne, for a term to begin immediately and to end June 30,
1980, to complete term of Professor Carl F. Berger, resigned to assume
position of Associate Dean
The University of Michigan-Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
Dr. Grant MacKenzie, to succeed himself for a four-year term, ending
December 31, 1982
Wade McCree, to succeed himself, for a four-year term, ending December 31,
1982
Charles R. Montgomery, appointed to a four-year term, ending December 31,
1982
Stanley Winkelman, to succeed himself, for a four-year term, ending December 31, 1982
Henry Russel       On recommendation of the Committee on the Henry Russel
Award      Award, the Regents approved the appointment of Joyce P. Marcus,
Assistant Professor of Anthropology, to receive the Henry Russel
Award for 1979 (R.P., 1975-78, p. 1019).




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979                          199
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS                                                   Personnel Reports
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                      Appointments
Effective January 1, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
Aaron Adiv, M.R.P., Architecture and Urban Planning
Naomi E. Ervin, M.P.H., Nursing
Instructor
Marianne R. Glassanos, M.S., Nursing
Mangaladevi Menon, M.B.B.S., Obstetrics and Gynecology
Marcia Lynn Wightman, M.A., Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Visiting Associate Professor
Edward "Tory" Higgins, Ph.D., Psychology
Visiting Assistant Professor
Osman Feyzi Genceli, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering
Ruth Miniowitz, D.Sc., Mathematics
Visiting Lecturer
Nabeel Abraham, Ph.D., Anthropology, UM-Dearborn
Joan C. Berends, M.A., Education
Herbert Bisno, M.S.W., Social Work
Martin Glaberman, Ph.D., Sociology, UM-Dearborn
Richard K. Matthei, M.Ed., Mathematics, UM-Dearborn
Randall E. Moss, Ph.D., Natural Resources
John W. Smith, M.A., Political Science, UM-Dearborn
Leonard B. Weisenthal, Ph.D., Physics, UM-Dearborn
Adjunct Professor
James Bulloch, Ph.D., Accounting
Lyndon Welch, M.S., Architecture
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Joseph F. Latham, M.S.N., Nursing
Mary Helen Morris, M.Ed., Nursing
Adjunct Instructor
Evan F. Bornholtz, M.B.A., Management, UM-Flint
Robert E. Krapfel, Jr., M.B.A., Management, UM-Flint
Robert L. Segar, M.A., Management, UM-Flint
Adjunct Lecturer
Sharon Bernice Banachowski, M.S., Speech and Hearing Sciences
Marvin Berman, Ph.D., Sociology, UM-Dearborn
Tran Thi Ngoc Bich, Ph.D., Management, UM-Dearborn
Jerome B. Blum, L.L.B., Political Science, UM-Dearborn
Thomas W. Brookover, J.D., Management, UM-Dearborn
David Louis Coplai, M.A., Management, UM-Dearborn
Carol Corradi, M.S.A., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn




200


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


Daniel Costigan Devine, L.L.B., Management, UM-Dearborn
Peter J. Dodge, J.D., Business Law, Business Administration
Robert George Dubensky, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Phillip Dukes, Ph.D., Psychology, UM-Dearborn
Randall K. Frank, M.B.A., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Keith L. Heezen, M.S., Natural Resources
Paul H. Lapointe, M.B.A., Urban Studies, UM-Flint
Leo J. Linsenmeyer, M.B.A., Management, UM-Dearborn
James P. Macey, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
P. T. Mathew, M.S.C., Physics, UM-Dearborn
Joseph Stanley Mazur, M.S., Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Ronald McCreight, M.B.A., Management, UM-Dearborn
Richard Warren Munt, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering
L. Guy Palmer, J.D., Law
Rita Rossi, M.A., Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Anthony J. Schifano, B.S., Urban Studies, UM-Flint
Elizabeth M. See, Ph.D., Sociology/Anthropology, UM-Flint
Abraham Singer, J.D., Economics, UM-Dearborn
Darrel R. Talifarro, M.S.W., Sociology/Anthropology, UM-Flint
Janet Marie Tooley, J.D., Law
James Dayton Varin, M.S., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Mukul Kumar Verma, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearborn
Thomas J. Wittock, B.S., Engineering, UM-Flint
Promotions  CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective January 1, 1979
Arnold A. Bergson, from Lecturer to Adjunct Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering
Jeanette M. Covington, from Instructor to Assistant Professor of Sociology
Resignations    TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective December 31, 1978 unless otherwise indicated
Mary E. Berry, Assistant Professor of History, May 31, 1978
Irwin Epstein, Professor of Social Work
Deh-Phone K. Hsing, Lecturer in Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn
Richard A. Lewis, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology
Joseph Mann, Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry
K. C. R. Nair, Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry, August 31, 1978
Farhad Nozari, Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
January 1, 1979
Elizabeth E. Pleck, Assistant Professor of History
Frank D. Rashid, Lecturer in Composition, UM-Dearborn
George Ruby, Instructor in Internal Medicine, September 8, 1978
Janice L. Vermilion, Lecturer in Biological Chemistry
Leaves of Absence   Two off-campus assignments, six sabbatical leaves, four leaves
of absence without salary, and one medical leave were reported
to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of two faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


201


LILLIAN G. OSTRAND, Associate Professor of Nursing in the School    L. G. Ostrand,
of Nursing, retired from active faculty status on August 31, 1978 after a most  Retirement
productive career as a teacher and Public Health Nursing advisor and consultant.
Professor Ostrand has been active in the field of nursing since she received her diploma in Nursing from Augustana Hospital in Chicago in 1937.
She has been an Associate Professor on the faculty of the School of Nursing
since 1974.
Throughout her career she has been providing skillful and able leadership
within the School of Nursing and the Public Health Nursing field.
The Regents recognized this distinguished health educator for her dedicated service by naming her Associate Professor Emeritus of Nursing.
GEORGE A. RICHARDSON, M.D., Professor of Psychiatry, has retired    G. A. Richardson,
from  active faculty status as of February 15, 1979, after a lengthy and  Retirement
productive career as a teacher and practicing psychoanalyst.
A native of Wisconsin, Dr. Richardson did both his undergraduate and
graduate studies at Northwestern University, from which he received his
M.D. in 1938 and an M.S. in Anatomy in 1940. Immediately thereafter, he
became a Roy Bishop Canfield Fellow in Otolaryngology at The University
of Michigan, a position he held until 1942. Later in that same year, he joined
the faculty of Northwestern University's Department of Otology as an
Assistant Professor, where he stayed until 1944.
In 1945, Dr. Richardson relocated back to Ann Arbor, and has been
affiliated with the Neuropsychiatric Institute since that time. His initial
appointment in 1945 was that of an Assistant in Psychiatry, from which he
was promoted to Instructor status in 1949. He became an Assistant Professor
in 1957 and was promoted to the level of Associate Professor in 1963. In July
of 1968 he was promoted to full Professor of Psychiatry.
Dr. Richardson has had a long and distinguished career in the Department of Psychiatry. He did extensive training in psychoanalysis and became
one of the most knowledgeable and respected analytic training supervisors in
the country. In this context, Dr. Richardson has been responsible through the
years for teaching and supervising literally hundreds of residents and
fellows, many of whom are now practicing senior analysts in their own right.
Due to his ongoing preeminence in the field of psychoanalysis, he has
held appointments at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and the Detroit
Psychoanalytic Training Center. In the local and national scene, Dr. Richardson has been active in the Detroit Psychoanalytic Association, the International Psychoanalytic Association, and the Michigan Psychoanalytic Society, to name just a few. Furthermore, he has been a training analyst in the
Michigan Psychoanalytic Institute for many years, a status earned by a select
few psychiatrists. His extensive research in the area has likewise earned him
national acclaim throughout his long and productive career.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his thirtyfour years of dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of
Psychiatry.
VII. DEATHS
Secretary Kennedy reported to the Regents the death of
Stewart H. Rewoldt, Professor of Marketing. The following memorial statement was adopted:
The Regents of the University express their deep sorrow at the untimely  s. H. Rewoldt
death of Professor STEWART H. REWOLDT, who died on January 10,          Memorial
1979.                                                                   Statement
Professor Rewoldt was born in Dundee, Illinois on January 26, 1922.




202


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


He received his Bachelor of Business Administration degree from the University in 1946 after having his undergraduate education interrupted by three
years of military service with the U.S. Army, much of the time in Europe.
Continuing his studies at Michigan he was awarded an M.B.A. degree with
distinction in 1947 and a Ph.D. in Business Administration in 1952.
Rewoldt joined the faculty in 1947 as an instructor in marketing and
was promoted to the rank of assistant professor in 1952. A year later he
became a member of the business faculty at Indiana University where he
attained the rank of associate professor in 1955. He returned to Michigan
in 1956 and was promoted to full professor of marketing in 1960.
Stewart Rewoldt served the School of Business Administration well
for over two decades. He was a member of such School committees as the
Executive Committee, Curriculum Committee, Scholarship Committee and
Teaching Committee. In 1967 he chaired an ad hoc committee to recommend
changes in the MBA curriculum. Subsequent adoption of the recommendations of that committee improved greatly the rigor and reputation of the
MBA program. His research activities resulted in the authorship or co-authorship of two scholarly books and in several journal articles. In recent years
he concentrated on case research to collect materials for a widely used text
in marketing management which he co-authored with two Michigan colleagues.
Stewart Rewoldt was a dedicated teacher who had a profound effect
upon students just being exposed to marketing. He also provided guidance
and support to graduate student teaching assistants teaching for the first
time under his supervision. In all, Professor Rewoldt was a warm and compassionate human being who left a lasting impact on all those privileged to
have been associated with him.
The Regents join the entire University community in extending deepest
sympathies to his family.
Vice-President Shapiro noted the death of Arthur W. Bromage,
Professor Emeritus of Political Science.
VIII. DEGREES
Degree Lists   On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Amended  Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, December 1978
American Culture
add:
Eleanor Lee Wright, B.A., Beloit College
delete:
Eleanor Lee Wood, B.A., Beloit College
Education
correct to show:
Irene Collette Cullen, B.S., Wayne State University
Master of Science, December 1978
Biological Chemistry
add:
Regina Marie Malczewski, B.S., University of Dayton




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


203


delete:
Regina Marie Toomey, B.S., University of Dayton
Master of Arts, August 1978
Far Eastern Languages and Literatures: Chinese
add:
Kathryn Susan Potter, A.B.
University of Michigan-Dearborn
Master of Science in Engineering, August 1978
Electrical Engineering
add:
Vanco Nestorovski, B.S.E. (E.E.)
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Bachelor of Science, May 1974
add:
Ronald Lamar Owen
School of Education
Bachelor of Arts in Education, December 1978
correct to show:
Babbette Denese Wilson
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (Electrical Engineering),
December 1978
add:
Julia Ann Raiss
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor in General Studies, August 1978
add:
Catherine Mary Thomas, with Distinction
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, August 1978
add:
Peter Michael Blass, with Distinction
Bachelor of Arts, December 1977
correct to show:
David Ernest Skinner, Honors in Economics
Bachelor of Arts, May 1975
correct to show:
Eileen Frances Hoptman




204


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


School of Natural Resources
Bachelor of Science, December 1978
add:
David Ervan Pejsa
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences and Letters
Bachelor of Science, April 1978
correct to show:
Donald Michael Blaty, with High Distinction
Degrees Confirmed  On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the December, 1978
Commencement exercises.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Wage and Price  Vice-President Brinkerhoff recommended that the Regents
Control, Federal
Standards approve compliance with federal standards for wage and price
controls as announced by President Carter. In response to questions he indicated that this action should not unreasonably affect
our capacity to alter tuition or alter hospital revenues although
the impact on the Hospital is a much more complex question.
Regent Roach moved to adopt the compliance recommendation. The motion was seconded by Regent Nederlander and
adopted.
Amdab  puter   Vice-President Overberger explained the need to replace the
University's teaching/research Amdahl 470V/6 computer in order
to insure adequate future capacity. He indicated a specific financing plan would be proposed at the March meeting. The
present computer would be sold in the process. The principal contenders for the replacement are the Amdahl 470V/7 and the IBM
3033. All vendors were contacted and invited to bid including
relevant Michigan companies. This new equipment would likely
only be adequate until 1983. Hopefully a new generation of computers will then be available with greatly expanded capacities.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated a similar capacity problem is occurring with the computer used by the Data Systems
Center. A similar procedure is being followed in securing replacement equipment including an investigation of using the outmoded
Amdahl 470V/6 from the Computing Center. Financing plans will
be brought to the Regents in March.
Real Property  Regent Roach moved that the property at 110 East Broadway,
Mt. Clemens, Michigan be sold as recommended. Regent Laro
seconded the motion and it was adopted.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


205


Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the plans of a local developer to construct a very sizeable development at the intersection of Forest and Washtenaw Avenues. As a part of that
development the University is being requested to provide an option
to purchase 12,500 sq. ft. of land that is presently used for surface
parking and an easterly access/egress to the University's Church
Street parking structure from Forest. An alternative access/egress
easement would be provided if this proposal was consumated.
The developer's plans have not yet proceeded through the
City's planning approval process. The city will not proceed to
review the plan unless there is a willingness on the part of the
University to consider such a sale. Thus it was recommended that
the Regents authorize continued discussions with the developer.
Regent Brown cautioned that no options be executed without
assurances that the development is actually to be accomplished.
Regent Baker objected strongly to the massive nature of the
proposed development and the effect it will have on the surrounding community and indeed the entire easterly border of the campus. While he remained open minded on the project, he wanted to
insure the matter was given the fullest possible public airing
before any University action was taken. He suggested that interested parties be invited to discuss their concerns with the
Regents.
Regent Roach indicated that concerns about this development
are largely community oriented and that the process of review is
more properly a responsibility of the City. The development had
the potential for offering some relief for the inadequate housing
supply.
The University concern is largely one of providing for the lost
parking spaces and insuring that the access to our parking structure is maintained.
Regent Baker reiterated his concern about the impact of so
massive a development on the campus itself.
Regent Laro was agreeable to having discussions go forward,
but expressed his interest in insuring the University is adequately
compensated for any lost parking spaces.
Regent Power moved that discussions with the developer go
forward as recommended. Regent Brown seconded the motion.
Regent Baker moved to table the motion, but it failed for lack
of a second. Regent Power's motion was adopted with Regent
Baker voting no. Regent Nederlander abstained from the vote
and the discussion on this issue.
The Regents received a report on University Hospital patient Hospital Patient
accounts receivable.                                        Accote Report
Rvece!X-.lkle Iterort




206


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


Hospital Elecrica  Regent Power moved to approve the program         proposal for
expansion of the Electrical Service at University Hospital, as
recommended Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
HEmergoSl    Regent Power moved to approve the proposal for interim
Services renovation of the Emergency Services area on the Fourth Level
Renovation of the Outpatient Building. Regent Laro seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Michigan League   On a motion by Regent Roach and seconded by Regent NederRenovation
Solution lander, the resolution providing for borrowing of funds for Michigan League improvements was adopted, and the term loan
agreement with National Bank and Trust Company, Ann Arbor
was approved. The resolution follows and the term loan agreement
appears as Appendix A to these minutes.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE BORROWING OF FUNDS
FOR PAYING THE COST OF REPAIRING AND
RENOVATING THE MICHIGAN LEAGUE BUILDING
WHEREAS, the Regents of The University of Michigan (the "Regents"),
in the exercise of its constitutional duties, has determined that it is necessary
and expedient to repair and renovate the Michigan League Building so that
it can properly serve the needs of students attending the University (the
"Project"); and
WHEREAS, it is estimated that the cost of the Project will be $250,000.00;
and
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Regents it is necessary and expedient
that it borrow by means of a commercial bank loan the sum of $250,000.00
to be used by it to pay the cost of the Project; and
WHEREAS, there has been submitted for consideration of the Regents a
proposed Term Loan and Security Agreement (the "Agreement") and related
Note (the "Note") whereby the sum of $250,00.00 may be borrowed from
NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY of Ann Arbor, Michigan (the "Bank"),
a national banking association;
Now, THEREFORE, Be It Resolved that the Regents borrow for such
purposes the sum of $250,000.00 from the Bank upon the terms and conditions more fully set forth in the Agreement. The loan is to be for a term of
approximately five (5) years, starting February 20, 1979, at an interest rate
of 5.65% per annum. The repayment of the loan is to be secured solely by a
pledge of Student Fees, as defined in the Agreement. In the event that Student
Fees are not sufficient to repay said loan, the loan will be paid to the extent
necessary from Funds Legally Available Therefor, as defined in the Agreement; and
Be It Further Resolved that the Regents will cause to be segregated and
allocated from Student Fees, for so long as any portion of the principal or
interest on the Note shall remain unpaid, an amount sufficient to pay the
installments of principal and interest on the Note as they fall due, as provided
in the Agreement. The Regents further covenants and agrees that it will
cause to be charged and will use its best efforts to cause to be collected
Students Fees sufficient in amount to meet its obligations under the Agreement; and




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


207


Be It Further Resolved that the Agreement attached hereto and the
Note attached thereto are hereby approved; and
Be It Further Resolved that James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President of
the Regents, and Richard L. Kennedy, its Secretary, be and they are hereby
authorized, empowered, and directed in the name of the Regents and as its
corporate act and deed to execute the Agreement and the Note in the amount
of $250,000.00 to the Bank in substantially the form submitted herewith,
and to execute the other documents and to take the other actions required
by the Agreement; and
Be It Further Resolved that the said officers be and they hereby are
authorized, empowered and directed for and in the name of the Regents
and as its corporate act and deed to make, consent to, and agree to any
changes in the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Note which they
may deem necessary, expedient, and proper prior to, or at the time of,
execution of the Agreement and the Note, but no such amendment shall
change the provisions therein for the amount to be borrowed, the interest
to be paid thereon, the payments required to be made, or the security
pledged; provided, however, nothing herein contained shall be construed
as limiting the right of said officers to alter or change the date of issue of
the Note and the date of the Agreement; and
Be It Further Resolved that the said officers, in the execution of the
Agreement and the Note, shall not pledge the credit of, or create any
liability on the part of, the State of Michigan, the Regents, or any member
or officer of this Board, or any of their successors, other than to pledge or
commit Student Fees and Funds Legally Available Therefor, as provided in
the Agreement, and
Be It Further Resolved that should it develop that James F. Brinkerhoff,
Vice-President of the Regents, through illness, absence or otherwise, be unable
to perform the acts is herein authorized, empowered and directed to perform,
then, in that case, Chandler W. Matthews, Controller of the Regents, is
hereby authorized, empowered and directed to perform any and all acts and
deeds herein authorized and directed to be performed by the said James
F. Brinkerhoff, and any action so taken by Chandler W. Matthews shall be
as binding on the Regents as if performed by the said James F. Brinkerhoff,
and
Be It Further Resolved that should it develop that Richard L. Kennedy,
Secretary of the Regents, through illness, absence, or otherwise, be unable to
perform the acts he is herein authorized, empowered and directed to perform,
then, in that case, Chandler W. Matthews, Controller of the Regents, is
hereby authorized, empowered and directed to perform any and all acts and
deeds herein authorized and directed to be performed by the said Richard
L. Kennedy, and any action so taken by Chandler W. Matthews shall be
as binding on the Regents as if performed by the said Richard L. Kennedy.
Be It Further Resolved that the said officers are authorized, if they so
desire, to sign the Agreement and the Note and any other documnts required
by the Agreement as J. F. Brinkerhoff, R. L. Kennedy, or C. W. Matthews,
respectively.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the recommended improvements to the Simpson Memorial Institute Laboratory and the
animal care facilities located in the C. C. Little Building, Animal
Research Building, Kresge Building, Medical Science Buildings,
and the School of Public Health. The motion was seconded by
Regent Dunn and adopted.




208


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


X. OTHER
The Regents approved the membership applications to the
medical staff of University Hospital.
H. K. Ransonm  Vice-President Shapiro recommended approval to establish the
Professorship
Established Henry King Ransom Professorship in the Law School.
Regent Power asked that all single sex designations in the
Professorship description be amended to more appropriate language.


Library and
Learning Resources
Building, Dearborn


Regent Roach moved establishment of the Professorship as
amended by Regent Power. Regent Nederlander seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach moved that the final project budget of
$10,045,000 for the Dearborn Library and Learning Resources
Building be approved. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion
and it was adopted with Regent Dunn voting no.


Bui


ing, Dearborn  The Regents received a final financial report on the Field
House (Recreational Building) at UM-Dearborn.
Student   Chancellor Goodall reviewed his proposal to institute a manTransportation
Fee, Dearborn datory student fee for transportation, to set the level of the
transportation fee at $32.00 for full-time students and $20.00 for
part-time students, and to solicit bids and arrange the sale of bonds
to consolidate existing parking debt and finance construction of
required parking facilities. The Chancellor noted that currently
90% of students drive to campus. In response to a question from
Regent Power he noted that there is general campus support for
this plan as a means of alleviating the current parking problems.
Some opposition has been expressed by environmentalists who see
the plan as encouraging the use of automobiles.


Computer Software
Policy
Reaffirmed


On a motion by Laro and seconded by Regent Roach the
Dearborn transportation plan elements were approved.
Regent Roach moved approval and Regent Power seconded the
following resolution, and it was adopted.
Many staff members are employed for the purpose of creating
computer software in the discharge of their duties. Resulting software is within the scope of Bylaw 3.10(2). However, it is recognized that the creation of computer software is a process which
may involve University-supported and independent activity by
staff members, as contemplated by Bylaw 3.10(5), but the precise
division of the relative amounts of University-supported and independent effort is in most cases impossible to calculate. Accordingly, without limiting the authority of the Vice-President for
Research under Bylaw 3.10(5), the Regents hereby reaffirm the
policy they adopted in January 1974 whereby the author-creator




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


209


of computer software may in an appropriate case be paid 20%
of royalties or other proceeds derived from exploitation of such
computer software.
On a motion by Regent Dunn and seconded by Regent Laro
the following resolution was adopted:
The Board of Regents of The University of Michigan herewith acknowledge and extend their high commendation to the University Musical Society
and the University Choral Union on the occasion of their centennial anniversary.
Throughout its history, the University Musical Society has been inextricably associated with the University. Its founding served to crystallize
the mounting interest in music both in the Ann Arbor community and the
University. The Society from its inception became the focal point not only
for musical performance but also for instruction. It was indeed the progenitor
of the School of Music, having provided courses in music instruction until
1940 when those educational activities were fully incorporated within the
University.
The Society's "Choral Union Concert Series," begun in the early 1880's,
and the "May Festival," which followed in 1894, have achieved international
recognition. To this day they provide incomparable contributions to the
cultural growth and enrichment of the entire community.
In these later years the Society's programs have broadened to include
equally distinguished presentations from other areas of the performing arts.
Each production reflects a meticulous adherence to a high standard of
excellence that has marked all of the efforts of the Musical Society.
The Regents extend now their warm greetings and deep gratitude to the
University Musical Society and the University Choral Union for their century-long dedication to cultural advancement and service to the University
and the community.
On a motion by Regent Roach and seconded by Regent Laro
the following resolution was adopted:
The Board of Regents of The University of Michigan happily applaud
the Board of Governors of the Michigan League as well as those directing
the League's Lydia Mendelssohn Theatre as they jointly celebrate their
fiftieth anniversary.
For all of their history these institutions have provided a place of grace
and warmth where students, faculty, alumni and alumnae could come together
in both formal and informal settings to know and learn from one another.
Generations have been able to experienece theatre as performed by the learning
novice as well as by the seasoned professional. Countless hundreds have
enjoyed the hospitality of the League's dining facilities and its many other
services. In truth these institutions have become a part of the very fabric of
the University.
The Regents now extend to the League's Board of Governors and
Mendelssohn Theatre managers their congratulations and deep appreciation
for the significant contributions their respective institutions have made to
the quality and enrichment of university life.
President Smith received the Regents' concurrence with his
suggestion to process a bylaw change to add students to the
Honorary Degree Committee. Such a bylaw change would come
to the Regents for approval.


University Musical
Society, Choral
Union Resolution
Michigan Legaue,
Mendelsshohn
Theatre
Managers
Resolution




210


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


PSelection Co    Regent Nederlander offered the following proposed criteria to
Selection Committee Criteria be used in selecting a new president of the University.
for President
The Regents Selection Committee appreciates the reports submitted on
the Needs of The University of Michigan by the Faculty Committee on the
Presidency, Student Committee on the Presidency, and the Alumni Committee
on the Presidency. In addition, the Regents are indebted to those other groups
and individuals who submitted memorandums and reports on this subject.
Each Advisory Committee may assess for itself the weight to be given
each criterion. The order of the criteria is not indicative of their importance.
The Regents Selection Committee may modify the criteria for a University President as the process of selection evolves.
A person having all of these desired characteristics may not be found,
so some abilities will be regarded as more important than others.
The Regents Selection Committee has determined that the following
characteristics should be considered when selecting the next President of
The University of Michigan:
1. Possess outstanding ability to provide vigorous, informed, imaginative and innovative leadership.
2. Possess executive and administrative skills.
3. Possess sensitivity to the nature and purposes of the University as
an academic institution and to academic freedom.
4. Possess the ability to delegate authority.
5. While it is not contemplated that any present executive officers need
be replaced, the President should be able to possess the capacity to
form a team of administrators whose abilities complement the President's to achieve the goals of the University.
6. Possess scholarly background.
7. Be able to serve at least ten years.
8. Need not hold a Ph.D. degree.
9. May be selected from within or without The University of Michigan.
10. Possess sensitivity to affirmative action-the need for identifying and
attracting women and minorities for enrollment, hiring and promotion.
11. Be sensitive to personnel and labor relations problems, and dealings
with labor unions.
12. Possess those personality traits which are necessary to work effectively with people, including faculty, students, staff, alumni, general
public, and the Regents.
13. Be committed to excellence throughout the University-excellence in
teaching, research and service.
14. Possess the ability to work effectively with government officials at the
local, state and national level, but must have the capability to resist
any governmental interference which impinges upon the academic
and intellectual freedom of the University, or will have that effect
in the future.
15. Be able to manage prudently in times of financial stringency without
sacrificing the quality of excellence.
16. Be able to perceive the changing needs of society so as to plan and
prepare for the University to accomplish its missions and goals in
the future.
17. Possess the capacity to exercise leadership in fund raising.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


211


18. Be able to fully utilize all of the resources of the University in an
integrated manner to enhance excellence of teaching, research and
service.
19. Sensitivity to the problems of a multi-campus university.
Regent Baker moved approval of the resolution. Regent Dunn
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Nederlander then offered the following revised guide-       Presidential
Selection Comnline on interviewing presidential candidates:                          mittee Guidelines
Revised
The Regents Selection Committee, after receiving advice and recommendations of the three advisory committees, will identify a list of candidates.
While the exact number of candidates is unknown at this time, it is hopeful
that it will be less than eight persons.
The advisory committees shall be advised as to the names of the candidates when so identified. If there are any additional candidates identified
at a later date, each advisory committee shall be notified forthwith.
All of these candidates who are willing to be considered as a candidate
for the Presidency will be interviewed. The interviews will be held at a time
and place agreeable to the candidate.
Three representatives of the faculty advisory committee, two representatives of the student advisory committee, and two representatives of the
alumni advisory committee will be invited to participate with the Regents
in interviews of each candidate. While there are advantages of identity of
participants for comparison purposes, each advisory committee will determine for itself whether or not to rotate the interviewing assignment.
If it is necessary for the interviewing personnel to travel, the University
shall bear the necessary cost of such travel and expenses.
Advisory committee members shall not communicate directly or indirectly with persons recommended for the presidency unless expressly authorized in writing by the Chairman of the Regents Selection Committee.
Regent Roach moved approval of the resolution, Regent Laro
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of January totaled $620.60.
The Regents adjourned to meet on March 15 and 16, 1979.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




212


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


INDEX
Amdahl 470V/6 computer, 204
Appointments, 197, 199; committee, 198
Closed meeting, motion for, 192
Computer software policy reaffirmed, 208
Dearborn: Library and Learning Resources Building budget approved, 208;
Field House (Recreational Building) financial report, 208; student
transportation fee, 208
Degrees: lists amended, 202; confirmed, 204
Flint: Classroom Laboratory Building and University Plaza, schematic designs
approved, 191; television transmitter architect selected, 193
Fund raising report, 193
Gifts, 194
Hospital: patient accounts receivable report, 205; electrical service, 206;
emergency services renovations, 206
Housing: single student rates, 191
Investments: twelve month review, 189; common stock ratio, 190; in South
Africa, 190; common stock approved list, 190
Leaves of absence, 198, 200
Michigan League, renovations resolution, 206; Board of Directors and Mendelssohn Theater managers commended, 209
Minority student enrollment report, 192
Ostrand, L. G., retirement, 201
Presidential Selection Committee: criteria for President, 210; guidelines revised, 211
Promotions, 198, 200
Public Comments, 192
Ransom, H. K., Professorship established, 208
Real property, 204
Resignations, 200
Rewoldt, S. H., memorial statement, 201
Richardson, G. A., retirement, 201
Russel, Henry, Award, 198
Russian Art Exhibition, statement regarding cancellation, 191
Wage and Price Controls, Federal Standards, 204
University Musical Society and Choral Union, commended, 209




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


213


APPENDIX A
TERM LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
MICHIGAN LEAGUE REPAIR AND RENOVATION
THIS AGREEMENT made and entered into as of the 20 day of February,
1979 between THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a body corporate created by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan (the "University"), and NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY OF ANN
ARBOR, a national banking association of Ann Arbor, Michigan (the "Bank");
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, the University, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and
in order to properly serve the needs of students attending the University,
has determined that it is necessary and advisable to repair and renovate the
Michigan League Building so that it can accommodate such needs (the
"Project"), which Building is located on the campus of The University of
Michigan at Ann Arbor, Michigan; and
WHEREAS, it is estimated that the costs incidental to constructing, furnishing and equipping the Project, as set forth in the approved Project budget,
will be $250,000; and
WHEREAS, The University, by proper resolution, has determined to
borrow by means of a commercial bank loan the sum of $250,000 which,
together with other legally available funds, shall be used to pay the cost of
the Project; and
WHEREAS, the Bank is willing to make the said loan for the said purpose
upon the terms and conditions more fully set forth herein;
Now, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein contained, the parties hereto do hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the words elsewhere defined in this Agreement, the following words as used herein shall have the following meaning unless the
context clearly otherwise indicates.
Fiscal Year-The term "Fiscal Year" shall mean any consecutive twelve
month period employed by the University in keeping its books of account,
currently ending on June 30 of each year.
Funds Legally Available Therefor-The term "Funds Legally Available
Therefor" as used herein shall mean any moneys of the University that may
be legally used by the University to pay principal of, and interest on, the
Note but shall not include any fund (a) currently or subsequently pledged
for, or committed to, present or future loans or other purposes to the extent
so pledged or committed or (b) the use of which would result in the loan
herein authorized being construed as indebtedness of the State of Michigan
under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
Parity Obligations-The term "Parity Obligations" shall mean the Note
and any other debts or obligations of the University secured by a pledge
of and first lien against Student Fees, including the existing Parity Obligations
specified in Section 8 and any additional Parity Obligations hereafter issued
by the University from time to time in accordance with Section 9.




214


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


Student Fees-The term "Student Fees" shall mean the general tuition
fees established from time to time by the University, and collected from or
on behalf of students attending any campus of The University of Michigan.
SECTION 2
COMMITMENT OF BANK
The Bank agrees to lend to the University and the University agrees to
borrow from the Bank on the date of this Agreement the sum of $250,000.
The Loan shall be evidenced by a note of the University to the Bank (the
"Note") in the principal amount of $250,000 in the form annexed as Exhibit
A, dated February 20, 1979, and maturing on April 1, in the years and in
the principal amounts set forth in the Note and bearing interest at the rate
of 5.65% per annum payable on October 1, 1979, and semi-annually thereafter
as provided in the Note and payable solely from the funds and in the
manner hereinafter provided. The principal of, and interest on, the Note shall
be payable in lawful money of the United States of America at the principal
office of the Bank.
SECTION 3
PREPAYMENT FOR THE NOTE
Except as herein otherwise provided, upon thirty (30) Bank business
days written notice, the University may from time to time, prepay the principal of the Note, in whole or in part, by paying the principal amount so to
be prepaid, together with accrued interest, if any, on such principal amount.
In making any prepayment to the Bank, the University may use any funds
in its possession which it may appropriate for that purpose. No such prepayment shall reduce the amount of the Student Fees to be set aside under
Section 6 hereof. Any partial prepayment shall be applied to the final installment or installments of principal on the Note in the inverse order of their
maturity, and such final installment or installments of principal shall be
reduced to the extent that princpal thereon has been so prepaid. The minimum
partial prepayment shall not be less than $25,000.
SECTION 4
AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
The University covenants and agrees as follows:
A. That it will award fixed price contracts for the Project which will,
to the extent possible, assure completion of the Project within the cost
estimate of $250,000 and which will assure completion of the Project not
later than June 30, 1979.
B. That, in the event that the cost of construction, furnishing and
equipping the Project shall exceed the amount of $250,000, it will promptly
appropriate from other funds which it may legally use for such purposes,
additional funds in an amount sufficient to allow the Project to be completed.
C. That all funds borrowed hereunder shall be impressed with a trust
solely for the purposes of paying the cost of the Project.
D. That it will pay promptly the principal of, and interest on, the Note
on the dates and in the manner provided herein, provided, that said principal
and interest on the Note shall be payable solely out of the funds described
in Section 6 of this Agreement. The University further covenants that it will
promptly pay interest (to the extent not prohibited by law) at the rate borne
by the Note on all overdue installments of principal and interest.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


215


SECTION 5
DEBT RETIREMENT FUND
The University covenants and agrees that it will immediately establish
a special separate account on its books and records designated "Michigan
League Repair and Renovation Loan Debt Retirement Fund" (the "Debt
Retirement Fund"), the moneys from time to time allocated and set aside in
said Fund to be used solely and only to pay the principal of, and interest
on, the Note when due or to prepay principal thereof. All Student Fees allocated for the retirement of the Note, as provided in Section 6 hereof, and
the release of the Loan proceeds as provided in Section 10 hereof, shall be set
aside in the Debt Retirement Fund.
SECTION 6
ALLOCATION OF STUDENT FEES
The University covenants and agrees that out of the collections of
Student Fees during each Fiscal Year, it will allocate and set aside in the
Debt Retirement Fund amounts fully sufficient, when combined with the
release of loan proceeds deposited in the Debt Retirement Fund, as provided
in Section 5 hereof, and any other funds allocated by the University to the
Debt Retirement Fund, to pay installments of the principal of, and interest
on, the Note as the same become due.
The Student Fees are hereby pledged for the payment of the principal,
of and interest on, the Note, and the University covenants and agrees that it
will use and apply the necessary amount of Student Fees for said purpose.
Student Fees allocated to the Debt Retirement Fund shall be applied first
to pay interest on the Note as the same becomes due and thereafter shall
be used to pay the principal of the Note.
The University reserves the right to use any Funds Legally Available
Therefor for the purpose of paying principal or interest on the Note.
So long as the installments of principal and interest on the Note are paid
when due, the University may in its discretion allocate excess funds generated
from the Student Fees to such other lawful purposes of the University as are
consistent with the requirements of Section 7 and 16 of this Agreement and
the agreements relating to Parity Obligations of the University.
SECTION 7
COVENANTS RE: STUDENT FEES, THE CREATION OF A LIEN THEREON
AND THE PLEDGE THEREOF
The University covenants and agrees that as long as the Note remains
unpaid, as to either principal or interest, it will establish and maintain Student
Fees to be collected from the students attending The University of Michigan
in amounts sufficient to provide annual sums equal to at least two hundred
per cent (200%) of the maximum future annual debt service requirements
on all Parity Obligations. The pledge of Student Fees hereby shall constitute
and be a first lien or charge against the Student Fees, which shall be of equal
standing with any lien or charge thereon made with respect to existing
Parity Obligations, described in Section 8 of this Agreement, and with any
additional Parity Obligations to be incurred, as authorized by Section 9 of
this Agreement. The University does hereby irrevocably pledge to the payment of the principal, of and interest on, the Note, the Student Fees and
any funds which may be deposited in the Debt Retirement Fund which are
intended and necessary to pay the principal of, and interest on, the Note
during the Fiscal Year of the deposit.




216


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


SECTION 8
PRIORITY OF PLEDGE AND LIEN ON THE STUDENT FEES
The pledge of Student Fees for payment of the principal of, and interest
on, the Note shall be of equal standing and priority of lien with the pledge
of Student Fees for other Parity Obligations, including additional Parity
Obligations which may be issued pledging Student Fees, as authorized by
Section 9 of this Agreement, and the existing Parity Obligations of the
University, as follows:
1. University Events Building Bonds
Original Amount Issued-$5,800,000
Dated-February 1, 1966
Final Maturity-April 1, 1996
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978) $4,195,000
2. Graduate Library Building Bonds
Original Amount Issued-$2,000.000
Dated-July 1, 1969
Final Maturity-April 1, 1999
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$1,570.000
3. Renovation and Addition to the Michigan Union Building-Term
Loan
Original Amount Issued-$559,000
Dated-September 20, 1974
Final Maturity-April 1, 1980
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$259,000
4. Student Loan Fund-Term Loan
Original Amount Issued-$500,000
Dated-February 1, 1975
Final Maturity-April 1, 1986
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$400,000
5. Student Loan Fund-Term Loan
Original Amount-$500,000
Dated-August 1, 1975
Final Maturity-April 1, 1986
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$400,000
6. Recreational Activities Building Fee Bonds
Original Amount-$6,170,000
Dated-August 1, 1975
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$5,820,000*
[*Qualified to the extent that certain investment securities acquired
with the proceeds of the $6,590,000 Recreational Activities Building
Fee Refunding Bonds are sufficient to retire the outstanding Recreational Activities Building Fee Bonds as they mature or are subject
to redemption on October 1, 1985.1
7. Flint Parking Facility-Term Loan
Original Amount-$280,000
Dated-September 21, 1976
Final Maturity-April 1, 1982
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$180,000




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


217


8. Recreational Activities Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$6,590,000
Dated-July 1, 1977
Final Maturity-April 1, 2005
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$6,590,000
9. Hospital Facilities Acquisition Fee Bonds
Original Amount-$6,400,000
Dated-November 1, 1977
Final Maturity-April 1, 1981
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$6,400,000
10. Dearborn Recreational Buildings Fee Refunding Bonds
Original Amount-$3,500,000
Dated-April 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 2008
Amount Outstanding (July 1, 1978)-$3,500,000
11. Student Loan Fund-Term Loan
Original Amount Issued-$1,500,000
Dated-August 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 1982
Amount Outstanding-$1,500,000
12. Dearborn Campus University Mall-Term Loan
Original Amount Issued-$5,700,000
Dated-August 1, 1978
Final Maturity-April 1, 1982
Amount Outstanding-$5,700,000
SECTION 9
ADDITIONAL PARITY OBLIGATIONS
Additional Parity Obligations for authorized purposes may be issued or
incurred by the University, secured by additional allocations of Student Fees,
having equal standing and priority of lien or charge against Student Fees with
the Note and with the existing Parity Obligations described in Section 8
hereof, provided:
(a) The University by its Controller certifies that the total amount
of Student Fees collected by the University in each of its last two preceding complete Fiscal Years prior to the issuance of such proposed
additional Parity Obligations is equal to at least 200% of the maximum
annual principal and interest requirements of the then outstanding Parity
Obligations and the proposed additional Parity Obligations during any
future Fiscal Year the Note is scheduled to be outstanding; and
(b) the proposed additional Parity Obligations shall be payable as
to principal only on April 1 of the year or years of maturity and payable
as to interest either annually or semi-annually on April 1 or October 1
of such years.
SECTION 10
RELEASE OF LOAN PROCEEDS
On February 20, 1979, it is agreed that the Bank will release the entire
proceeds of the Loan to the University for the purpose of subsequently paying
part of the cost of the Project, subject to delivery to the Bank of the duly




21.8


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


executed Note, the approving opinion of the Office of the General Counsel
of the University, and upon receipt of the usual closing certificates and
documents in form satisfactory to the Bank.
SECTION 11
SECURITY AND IMMUNITY
No property of the University, except the Student Fees, shall be security
for, levied upon or sold to pay the principal of, and interest on, the Note.
No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant, stipulation, or agreement
contained in this Agreement or the Note shall be had against the State of
Michigan, or against the corporate body known as The Regents of The University of Michigan, except the remedies provided in Section 14 hereof. No
recourse to any personal liability shall be had for redress under any of the
obligations, covenants, stipulations, or agreements of this Agreement, or the
Note, upon, from or to any officer of The University of Michigan or any
member of the Board of Regents, either directly or through the University,
by any legal or equitable proceeding by virtue of any statute or otherwise,
it being hereby expressly agreed that no personal liability shall attach to, or
be incurred by, the said officers or any member of the Board of Regents or
any or either of them, under or by reason of any or either of the obligations,
covenants, stipulations, or agreements herein incurred, or in the Note, expressed or contained therein, or implied therefrom, it being expressly understood and agreed that this Loan is secured only by Student Fees, and is payable only from Student Fees and Funds Legally Available Therefor and that
no other liability for the payment of moneys shall attach to, or be incurred
by, the State of Michigan, the University, any member of the Board of
Regents, or any member or officer of The University of Michigan, or its or
their successors, all other liability, except as herein provided, being expressly
waived. The Note and this Agreement are not intended to create any indebtedness of the State of Michigan or of the University within the meaning
of any State constitutional debt limitation or restriction.
SECTION 12
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
The University represents and warrants that:
(A) No litigation or governmental proceedings are pending, or, to the
knowledge of the University, threatened against the University which seeks
to enjoin the execution or delivery of the Note or this Loan Agreement or
which could have a material adverse effect on this Loan or the security
therefor.
(B) All acts required by the Constitution and applicable statutes of the
State of Michigan, and all applicable rules and regulations of The Regents
of the University, have been, or will be, complied with by the execution of
this Agreement, and the said Agreement is, and the Note, when issued, will
be valid and binding in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof.
(C) All acts necessary to perfect a security interest in the pledged
Student Fees to the Bank have been taken by the University as required
by the statutes of the State of Michigan, and the University agrees that it
will execute such appropriate instruments as the Bank may supply to the
University to continue the perfected lien of the security interest.
(D) The execution of this Agreement will not violate or be in contravention of any loan agreement, mortgage, deed, indenture, or other undertaking to which the University is a party or by which it is bound.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


219


SECTION 13
EVENTS OF DEFAULT
If any one or more of the following events herein called "Events of
Default," shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of the Note and
accrued unpaid interest thereon shall become due and payable upon demand:
(A) If any principal (whether any installment or the unpaid balance)
or interest on the Note shall not be paid within thirty (30) days after the
same becomes due;
(B) Default in the observance or performance of any other agreement
of the University herein set forth, and the continuance thereof for thirty (30)
days after written notice thereof to the University from the Bank;
(C) Any representation or warranty made (1) by the University herein
or any representation or warranty made (2) by the University in any report,
statement, schedule, or certificate furnished to the Bank pursuant to this
Agreement, proves to be untrue in any material respect as of the date of this
Agreement concerning (1), or as of the date of such report, statement,
schedule, or certificate concerning (2).
SECTION 14
REMEDY ON DEFAULT
In case of any Event of Default, the Bank may proceed to enforce its
rights, either by mandamus or other remedy provided by law, to compel
the University to perform each and every covenant herein contained, or by
injunction or other remedy provided by law, to prevent the University from
performing any act in violation of said covenants.
The University expressly authorizes the Bank to bring any of the actions
at law or in equity hereinbefore mentioned, and hereby waives any immunity
to be proceeded against, as herein authorized, which may exist by reason of
its being a subdivision of the Michigan State Government.
SECTION 15
MISCELLANEOUS
(A) Any notice or demand which, by the provision of this Agreement,
is required or provided to be served to or upon the University or the Bank,
respectively, shall be deemed to be given or served for all purposes by being
sent by registered mail, postage prepaid, addressed to The Regents of The
University of Michigan, Investment Office, Administration Building, Ann
Arbor, Michigan 48109, and to National Bank and Trust Company of Ann
Arbor, Post Office Box 8601, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48107, respectively, or if
any other address shall at any time be designated by either in writing received
by the other, to such other address.
(B) No course of dealing between the University and the Bank or any
delay on the part of the Bank in exercising any rights hereunder or under
the Note shall operate as a waiver of any rights hereunder or under the
Note or otherwise.
(C) If and when the principal of, and interest on, the Note shall have
been paid in full, then this Agreement shall be terminated and shall be of
no further force and effect. Within thirty (30) days after such termination,
the Bank shall cancel the Note and return it to the University and execute
an instrument provided by the University which shall specifically release the
University from the covenants herein.




220


FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


(D) Should any provision, sentence, or section of this Agreement be held
invalid for any reason, such holding shall not be construed as affecting the
validity of any remaining portion of said section or of this Agreement.
(E) This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts
together shall and will constitute one and the same instrument.
SECTION 16
COVENANTS OF THE UNIVERSITY WITH RESPECT TO
INTERNAL REVENUE CODE
(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Loan Agreement or
any resolution adopted heretofore, the University hereby covenants and agrees
that it will not invest or reinvest the proceeds of the Loan in a manner which
would cause the Note to constitute an "arbitrage bond" within the meaning
of Section 103(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and
all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(B) The University further covenants that it will not cause, at any
time or times, any of the proceeds of the Note or any other funds of the
University to be used directly or indirectly in a manner which would result
in the exclusion of said Note from the treatment afforded by Section 103(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, by reason of the classification of such Note as "an industrial development bond" within the meaning
of Section 103(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended, and
all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
(C) The University shall keep full and complete records of all deposits
to, and withdrawals from, each of the funds and accounts related to the
Student Fees and the proceeds of this financing and of all other transactions
relating to such funds and accounts and of all investments and reinvestments
of moneys in such accounts and the interest and gain derived therefrom.
SECTION 17
AUDITS AND ACCOUNTS
The University agrees to provide to the Bank upon request summaries
of existing information relating to the collection of Student Fees and the
allocation thereof, and the enrollment of students. The University further
agrees to furnish to the Bank on or before November 30th, of each year,
as a part of the annual audit of the University prepared by a certified public
accountant selected by the University, information showing the collection,
allocation and disposition of the Student Fees pertaining to the Debt Retirement Fund, including specifically the payments made to the Bank therefrom.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Regents of The University of Michigan has
caused these presents to be signed by its Vice-President, attested by its
Secretary, and sealed with its corporate seal, and National Bank and Trust
Company of Ann Arbor has caused these presents to be executed on its
behalf by its Vice-President, and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed, all
as of the 20th day of February, 1979.




FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979


221


Attest:                      THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN..............By: 
Richard L. Kennedy                              James F. Brinkerhoff,
Vice-President and
Chief Financial Officer
NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
OF ANN ARBOR..........................   B y:...................................
Exhibit A                     NOTE              Ann Arbor, Michigan
$250,000.00                                     February 20, 1979
The Regents of The University of Michigan, a body corporate created
by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan, promises
to pay to the order of National Bank and Trust Company of Ann Arbor,
Ann Arbor, Michigan, the sum of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand (250,000.00)
Dollars, together with interest thereon at the rate of 5.65% per annum upon
all principal sums at any time and from time to time unpaid thereon; but only
from Student Fees and Funds Legally Available Therefor, as provided in a
certain Term Loan and Security Agreement by and between the Regents
of The University of Michigan and National Bank and Trust Company
of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor, Michigan, dated February 20, 1979. Payment
shall be as follows:
Payment            Interest           Principal          Total
Dates            Payments            Payments         Payments
October 1, 1979      $8,629.79             -0-            $ 8,629.79
April 1, 1980         7,081.84           $43,000.00        50,081.84
October 1, 1980       5,863.77             -0-              5,863.77
April 1, 1981         5,831.73            47,000.00        52,831.73
October 1, 1981       4,532.38             -0-              4,532.38
April 1, 1982         4,507.62            49,000.00        53,507.62
October 1, 1982       3,144.34             -0-              3,144.34
April 1, 1983         3,127.16           52,000.00         55,127.16
October 1, 1983       1,671.32             -0-              1,671.32
April 1, 1984         1,671.32            59,000.00        60,671.32
The foregoing payments shall be subject to adjustment as provided in
the Term Loan and Security Agreement in the event of prepayment of principal as provided therein.




222              FEBRUARY MEETING, 1979
This Note is issued pursuant to, is entitled to the benefits, and is subject
to all the terms and conditions of the Term Loan and Security Agreement
hereinbefore described.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN
By:...................................
J. F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President
By:...................................
R. L. Kennedy, Secretary




MARCH MEETING, 1979
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, MARCH 15, 1979


The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Dunn, Laro,
Nederlander, Power, Roach and Waters. Chancellors Goodall and
Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present. Regent Brown was absent.
The meeting was interrupted by a large group of students
and others representing the Wastenaw County Coalition against
Apartheid who demanded that the Regents take immediate action
to divest stocks owned by the University in companies doing
business in South Africa. After repeated attempts by President
Smith to continue with the regular business of the monthly meeting, Regent Nederlander moved to adjourn the meeting which
was seconded by Regent Dunn and adopted. The Regents and the
Executive Officers then vacated the meeting room.
After the students left the premises, the Regents reconvened
at 3:25 p.m. in the Regents' room. Regent Nederlander clarified
his motion for adjournment indicating it was his intention to recess
the meeting until business could be continued without interruption
rather than actually adjourning the meeting.
President Smith then indicated that the UM-Flint recreation
building item had been withdrawn; therefore, Vice-President
Shapiro would review the next two items on the agenda.
Vice-President Shapiro commented briefly on the recommendations to join the journalism department and the speech communication component of the department of speech communication
and theatre, thereby creating the Department of Communication
and to establish a separate Department of Theatre and Drama.
Following discussion, Regent Power moved to approve the
recommendation, Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
223


Investment
Policies in
South Africa
Recreation
Building,
UM-Flint
Department of
Communication
and Department
of Theatre and
Drama Established




224


MARCH MEETING, 1979


Budget for  Vice-President Shapiro reviewed the status of the 1979-80
budget, including the Governor's recommendation, the existing
commitments on those funds, and revenue available for salary and
non-salary programs. He indicated an increase in tuition was
essential this year to maintain University programs at their present
levels. The General Fund budget for 1978-79 will be in balance
at year end, provided there is no reduction in state appropriations
for this current year through an executive order from the Governor.
Public Comments  The Regents' meeting then moved to the Michigan Union
Ballroom to continue the scheduled public comments session.
Although six persons had requested time on the agenda to
speak on South African investments, five yielded their time to
Jemardari Kamara, who spoke on the subject and asked that an
action item recommending divestiture of stock held by the University in companies doing business in South Africa be placed
on the agenda for the Friday morning meeting.
Academic freedom at Birzeit University was then addressed
by Joe Beinin, Amy Marmer, and Jim Lindsay who represented
the Palestinian Human Rights Committee and Rabbi William
Rudolph for the Hillel Foundation.
Jim Allen from Michigan Student Assembly spoke on the
tuition increase for the coming year.
The meeting was recessed.
FRIDAY, MARCH 16, 1979
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Dunn, Nederlander, Roach and Power. Chancellors Goodall and Moran and
Vice-President Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger, Radock, Shapiro
and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also were present.
Regents Brown, Laro, and Waters were absent.
U    ndergraduate  Vice-President Shapiro commented that a report on tuition
Fees, 1979-80 and fees for resident undergraduates for 1979-80 must be submitted to the Student Financial Assistance Services section of the
State of Michigan Department of Education early next month.
This report will determine the funds allocated to The University
of Michigan students. The recommendation requests approval of
an increase ranging from 8-9.5% for all campuses.
A motion to approve the range of the tuition increase as
recommended, was made by Regent Baker and seconded by Regent
Nederlander.
Regent Roach moved to amend the proposal substituting 7%
as the minimum increase for the Ann Arbor campus, retaining




MARCH MEETING, 1979


225


the 8-9.5% for the Dearborn and Flint campuses. Regent Power
seconded the motion.
Vice-President Shapiro commented that the action required
at this time was only setting the range of increase and not establishing actual tuition rates. He felt that a 7% increase would not
be viable; another year of enforced savings would have too great
an impact on existing programs.
The motion to amend the recommendation to a 7% minimum
failed with Regents Baker, Dunn, and Nederlander voting no.
President Smith then called for the vote on the original
motion which was moved by Regent Baker and seconded by
Regent Nederlander to approve the recommended range of 8-9.5 %
for resident undergraduate tuition fees for 1979-80 for all campuses. It was unanimously approved.
Regent Power commented that everyone deplores and regrets
having to take action each year to increase tuition. She suggested
that it would be appropriate for the Regents themselves, in conjunction with certain administrative officers, to participate in
appropriate discussions with the Governor to convey some of their
views and concerns about The University of Michigan as a state
and national resource. She moved that a representative group from
the Board of Regents meet with the Governor to discuss financial
affairs of The University of Michigan. Regent Roach seconded the
motion.
In amplification of Regent Power's motion, President Smith
stated that a few years ago the State government adopted a policy
in funding higher education under which appropriation increases
apply only to the state portion of the budget. This has the inevitable effect of requiring increases in student fees which is the
principle source of other revenue.
Regent Baker indicated that he would not support the motion
because he felt that this is and should continue to be a staff
relationship between the University, the legislature and the
Governor's office. The position of the Regents as well as the
University is adequately transmitted to those offices. He believes
that the Regents should not step into the political arena which
may force positions that may not be helpful to the legislature,
the Governor's office, or the University.
Regents Nederlander and Roach commented that any such
meetings would be coordinated with and in participation with the
Officers of the University.
President Smith called for the vote. The motion was adopted
with Regent Baker voting no.




226


MARCH MEETING, 1979


Investment  President Smith then stated that with the Regents permission,
Policies in
South Africa the two items in which the group of students were interested would
be next on the agenda. He said that all of the Regents, including
Regent Waters, who was absent, had asked that this meeting
be opened for such attention to the University's investment policy
as the Regents may want to take. He reminded everyone that
the issue is not whether political and social conditions in South
Africa are at a desirable level; the issue is whether or not certain
kinds of conduct can modify the direction of those conditions.
In addition, there is the question as to what agencies should take
political action that might be appropriate. There is also the question as to whether or not divestment produces good or ill toward
the changes everyone seeks. There are knowledgeable individuals
who have declared publicly that the maintenance of American
industrial presence in South Africa is advantageous to the improvement of those conditions, as well as people who have said
the contrary. The Regents adopted the present policy a year ago
after long deliberation and study by appropriate groups in the
community.
icReviewed  Regent Roach then moved that the matter of the Regents'
policy with respect to investment in corporations doing business
in South Africa and banks making loans to the government of
South Africa be referred to the Senate Advisory Committee on
Financial Affairs for review of such new information as may be
presented to it and for recommendations of suggested changes in
such policy, if any, and report to the Regents at an early date.
He further moved that the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA) request the Michigan Student Assembly
to appoint two students as members. Regent Power seconded the
motion.
In explanation, President Smith commented that the Senate
Advisory Committee on Financial Affairs (SACFA) is a standing
committee created by the Senate Advisory Committee for University Affairs. Routinely, advisory committees to the vice presidents include student members, but for some reason students have
not shown an interest in this particular committee. The Regents
feel that this committee clearly should have student representation
to review this policy to see whether or not there is justification or
reason for any suggested modifications of the policy.
Regent Power said that Regent Waters had asked her to
introduce a resolution asking that the Regents put the matter of
University investment policy with respect to South Africa on the
meeting agenda. She expressed her view that Regent Roach's motion
included and went beyond the intent of Regent Waters' resolution.
Regent Nederlander commented that although the group's
request was legitimate, they must realize that the University is




MARCH MEETING, 1979


227


a highly decentralized organization. It has always been the policy
of the University to obtain a divergence of opinion before action
on any important issue takes place. To do otherwise would not
be acting in the best interest of the University.
President Smith called for the vote on Regent Roach's motion.
The motion carried unanimously.
A student then asked permission to speak on the South Africa
issue indicating that she had new information for the Regents to
consider. Permission was denied.
Regent Baker stated that this was a meeting of the Regents
not the public comments session and asked that the business of
the meeting be continued.
Regent Roach commented that the opportunity to present the
information was available at the public comments session on
Thursday. Any new information the group may have can be
referred to the Senate Advisory Committee on Financial Affairs.
The committee will investigate and report to the Regents accordingly. There is no reason for departing from the usual procedure
in this business meeting.
President Smith then continued to the next item concerning
two companies in which the University holds stock.
In responding to a question, Vice-President Brinkerhoff stated
that he is waiting for additional information from Black and
Decker Manufacturing Company and G. D. Searle and Company
regarding their support of the Sullivan principles. He added that
Black and Decker have indicated that they have an affirmative
action program for their employees, and a response from G. D.
Searle and Company is expected next month.
Regent Roach said that University policy states that if companies did not specifically adopt the Sullivan principles, their
program must be substantially equivalent. He asked that whatever
response these companies make must be brought to the attention
of the Board of Regents in April for evaluation. The Board would
hope that these companies would take appropriate action in
accordance with the Board's request. He said he was satisfied
with Seattle First National Bank's policy, but the activities of
the Union Bank should be closely monitored because of the pending
merger of that bank with the Standard Chartered Bank Limited
of London. Since the University is not involved in any way with
the above mentioned banks, the Regents were only concerned
with the policies of the Black and Decker Company and G. D.
Searle and Company at this time.
Regent Dunn indicated that a year was more than enough time
for these companies to have responded to the University's request;
therefore, if affirmation is not received by the next Regents' meet

Companies to
Respond to
Sullivan Principles




228


MARCH MEETING, 1979


Meeting Recessed


ing, he is prepared to move divestment of University owned stocks
in these companies at the April meeting.
Repeated attempts to continue the regular business meeting
were constantly interrupted by the audience. Regent Baker stated
that in his opinion "a breach of the peace" was occurring through
the actions of the members of the Washtenaw County Coalition
against Apartheid (WCCAA) and that a breach of the peace had
taken place by that same group at the Regents' meeting on
Thursday, March 15th, inasmuch as the actions of the WCCAA
apparently violated the law and since they would not desist in
their disruptive actions, Regent Baker left the room leaving only
four members of the Board of Regents present. A quorum was not
then present. The meeting was then recessed. Upon their return,
Regent Roach moved that the rules of the meeting be suspended
to permit Anne Fullerton, a graduate student of public health,
to speak for five minutes on the issue of South African investments.
Ms. Fullerton summarized a report which contained information which she felt indicated action by the Regents to divest the
University portfolio of all stocks held by the University in companies doing business in South Africa. Ms. Fullerton was permitted
to speak for 22 minutes to conclude her speech.
The audience continued to disrupt the meeting and the chairman called a recess.
The Regents reconvened at 3:00 P.M. in the President's Conference room. Due to a prior commitment, Regent Dunn was
absent. Regent Laro returned to the meeting.
President Smith reviewed the events that led to changing the
location of the meeting of the Board of Regents. He noted that
after completion of the first item on the agenda, he had altered
the meeting schedule to accommodate the interest of the large
group attending the meeting. The Regents were prepared to
respond to the public comments of the previous day by asking for
a reconsideration or at least a review of the University's present
policy on financial investments with corporations doing business
in South Africa. A motion was made and adopted which, in effect,
gave the group requesting attention the success of having the
policy re-examined and clearly providing at some point in the
future an opportunity for affirmation or modification of the University's present policy. This action was less than the group wanted
and they persisted in demanding immediate action on the question
of divestiture.
The Board's function is to determine policy, to listen to reports,
and to insist upon multiple audiences being heard before important
decisions are made. The Board felt strongly that this practice
should not be modified in this case, therefore, they were quite


Meeting Location
Changed




MARCH MEETING, 1979


229


unwilling to make any determination at this meeting, nor were
they willing to set a date for a hearing on the examination of that
policy other than the first meeting after the report was received.
It is believed that that procedure, practice, and attitude is in the
best interest of the University and all of its constituents.
Under Section 3(6) of the Open Meetings Act, the University
would have been entitled to declare a breech of the peace because
of the disruption of the meeting and to clear the room of those
guilty of this breech. The result of this action most likely would
have necessitated massive police action which the University
wished to avoid if another way could be found to restore order
to the meeting. It was the opinion of the Regents and the Officers
that it would be a mistake to abandon the scheduled meeting
without accomplishing the routine monthly business of the University. A way within the law was sought to enable the Regents
to continue their meeting without forceful intervention. Upon
advice of General Counsel, an Ex-Parte Temporary Restraining
Order was sought and was issued by the Circuit Court of the
County of Washtenaw. Mr. Smith then read the order into the
record as follows:
EX-PARTE TEMPORARY RESTRAINING ORDER                       Restraining Order
At a session of said Court held in the Washtenaw County Building,
Ann Arbor, Michigan, on this 16th day of March, 1979.
PRESENT: HON. HAROLD VAN DOMELEN
Circuit Judge presiding
The Court having reviewed plaintiff's Verified Complaint For Declaratory Judgment, Injunctive and Other Relief, together with supporting
Affidavits, and being fully advised in the premises; now, therefore,
1. IT Is ORDERED that pending a hearing on said Verified Complaint and
until further Order of this Court, the defendants, their officers, agents, employees, organizers, members, representatives and all others having actual
notice of this Order be and are hereby restrained and enjoined from in any
way interfering with the meetings of plaintiff's Board of Regents, members
of the press and those persons having legitimate business before said Board.
2. IT Is FURTHER ORDERED that pending further Order of this Court the
plaintiff is authorized to relocate its regularly scheduled and noticed meetings
of the Board of Regents from the usual meeting place on the first floor of
the Administration Building to the Regents Room on the second floor of
said Building, or, if necessary in the reasonable discretion of the plaintiff, to
some other location safe and secure from the activities and threatened activities of defendants.
3. IT Is FURTHER ORDERED that plaintiff is authorized to close said
meetings to members of the public and to admit only members of the Press
and other persons within plaintiff's discretion, and to lock the doors to said
meetings.
4. Such Temporary Restraining Order is granted without notice for the
reason that it appears to the Court that immediate judicial relief is necessary
to preserve the public peace and safety and to prevent injury to persons and




230


MARCH MEETING, 1979


defendants cannot be summoned and brought before the Court promptly
enough to hold a hearing.
5. The Temporary Restraining Order issued at Ann Arbor, Michigan,
this 16th day of March, 1979, at 2:05 o'clock in the afternoon.
/S/ Harold Van Domelen
Circuit Judge
March 16, 1979
Prospective  Vice-President Shapiro then summarized the new program of
Scholars rogram recruitment and academic recognition for entering freshmen at
the Ann Arbor campus. "The Prospective Scholars Program" offers
three types of merit scholarships: the Regents-Alumni Merit
Scholarships for in-state students, the Michigan Annual Giving
Scholarships and the Academic Recognition Scholarships for outstate students. The cohesiveness of the program should better
enable the University to compete for the best students both in-state
and out-state.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of February 15 and 16, 1979 were
approved as amended by Regent Power.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on temporary investments, investment transactions, plant extension report, litigation, and personnel-labor relations.
In connection with the personnel-labor relations report, President Smith briefly commented on the case that will be appearing
before MERC concerning the University and the Graduate Employees Organization (GEO).
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts
for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on the Office
of University Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Gifts    Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from  the following
sources. They were accepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions; Regent Nederlander and Power abstained
from the vote.
American Bureau of Shipping, New York, New York; for the
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarship and
Discretionary  fund.....................................$   5,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York; for the
American Cancer Society funds.......................... 32,624.00




MARCH MEETING, 1979


231


American Heart Asociation, Dallas, Texas; for the American Heart
Association funds...................................... 21,505.00
American Hoechst Corporation, Sommerville, New Jersey; for the
Psoriasis Clinical Research and Education fund............ 12,000.00
American Ship Building Company, Cleveland, Ohio; for the Naval
Architecture and Marine Engineering Building fund........ 10,000.00
Mr. & Mrs. Ned S. Arbury, Midland; for the President Gerald R.
Ford Library fund.....................................  20,000.00
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; for the Arthritis Foundation  funds.........................................  8,541.67
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn; for the Michigan Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds................  7,500.22
Ayerst Laboratories, New York, New York; for the Anesthesia
Education fund........................................  7,035.00
Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, New Jersey; for the following funds:
Bell Telephone Laboratories-Electrical Engineering fund.... 25,213.00
Bell Telephone Laboratories-Mechanical Engineering fund.. 16,798.00
PDP II Computer Recharge-Electrical Engineering fund....  6,100.00
Bendix Corporation, Southfield; for the Engineering Building
Gifts  fund.............................................  50,000.00
A. Edward Brown, St. Joseph; for the following funds:
Athletic Scholarships fund..............................  1,000.00
Law School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund..........  5,000.00
Robert J. Brown, Kalamazoo; for the Pending Designation fund  10,000.00
Edmund B. Brownell, Flint; for the Anna Begole and Lexie C.
Brownell Neurosurgery Research-Schneider fund.........  6,000.00
Mrs. Roy E. Brownell, Flint, for the Anna Begole and Lexie C.
Brownell Neurosurgery Research-Schneider fund..........  6,000.00
J. Lawrence Buell, Jr., Grosse Pointe Farms; for the College of
Engineering fund.......................................  15,000.00
Chevrolet Motor Division, General Motors Corporation, Detroit;
for Athletic  Scholarships  fund...........................  5,000.00
Donald C. Cook, New York, New York; for the Donald C. Cook
Chair in Business Economics fund........................ 10,000.00
Aaron DeRoy Management Corporation, Detroit; for the following funds:
Athletic  Scholarship  fund...............................  5,000.00
Law School-Law Library Building fund..................  5,000.00
Otto Graf Scholarship fund.............................. 10,000.00
Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship Fund, Birmingham; for Athletic Scholarships fund.....................  7,200.00
Dow Chemical Company, Midland; for the following funds:
Carey P. McCord Library fund..........................  250.00
Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health-Project 4
fund..........................................  20,000.00
International Symposium on Microsomes fund............  1,000.00
E. I. DuPont DeNemours and Company, Wilmington, Delaware;
for the following funds:
DuPont Fellowship in Business Administration fund......  7,000.00
DuPont Fundamental Research in Chemical Engineering fund  19,000.00
DuPont Fundamental Research in Chemistry fund........  7,500.00
DuPont Fundamental Research in Mechanical Engineering
fund..............................................  11,500.00
Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health-Project 4
fund..............................................  10,000.00
Macromolecular Research Center fund....................  7,500.00
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio; for the Eaton Corporation Manufacturing fund................................ 50,000.00
Evening News Association, Detroit; for the Marching Band-Bowl
Games  fund...........................................  15,000.00




232


MARCH MEETING, 1979


Ford Motor Company, Dearborn; for the Michigan Memorial
Phoenix Project fund...................................  5,000.00
Foremost Petroleum Corporation, Inc., Victoria, Texas; for the
President Gerald R. Ford Library fund...................  50,000.00
Wood and Rosemary Geist, Romeo; for the President's fund....  10,000.00
General Electric Foundation, Bridgeport, Connecticut; for the
General Electric Foundation funds.......................  55,000.00
General Motors Corporation, Detroit; for the Engineering Building
Gifts fund............................................. 100,000.00
General Motors Foundation, Inc., Detroit, for the Law SchoolLaw Library Building fund.............................. 10,000.00
David Gerarduzzi Engineers, Inc., Ferndale; for the President's
fund..................................................  10,000.00
Jerome Lee Goldman, New Orleans, Louisiana; for the Naval
Architecture and Marine Engineering Building fund........  30,000.00
J. J. Henry Company, Inc., New York, New York; for the Naval
Architecture and Marine Engineering Building fund........  5,000.00
Gwyn M. Hughes Estate, to establish the Gwyn M. Hughes
Memorial fund........................................    7,134.00
George M. and Pamela S. Humphrey Fund, Cleveland, Ohio; for
the Law School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund...... 25,000.00
International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New
York; for the following funds:
Business Administration-IBM  Information Systems fund..  9,400.00
Business Administration Special fund.....................  2,000.00
Business  School  fund...................................  180.00
Chemistry  Department fund.............................  200.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund.........   150.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........  85.00
School of Nursing  fund.................................  25.00
Residential  College  fund................................  25.00
U of M-Men's Glee Club fund...........................    100.00
Vital M argin  fund.......................................  1,177.00
W UOM     fund..........................................   20.00
Mr. & Mrs. G. Lawton Johnson, Lyme, New Hampshire; for the
Clyde Johnson Scholarship fund........................   8,862.50
Kendall Company, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts; for the Richard C.
Schneider Neurosurgical fund............................  5,000.00
Kerr Manufacturing Company, Division of Sybron Corporation,
Romulus; for the Kerr Manufacturing Oral Histology-Avery
fund..................................................  6,500.00
Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the Kidney
Foundation  funds......................................  9,127.50
Florence Kilworth Foundation, Tacoma, Washington; for the
Nuclear Medicine Research fund...........................  5,000.00
Kresge Foundation, Troy, for the Law School Law Library Building  fund...............................................  750,000.00
Dr. Jack Lapides, Ann Arbor, for the following funds:
Alice Lapides Fund in Urology.......................... 20,000.00
Lapides Drug Research fund............................ 20,000.00
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana; for the Internal
Medicine Infectious Diseases Research fund..............  5,000.00
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York; for the
Henry Luce Foundation funds........................... 57,000.00
Charles S. Marsden Estate; to establish the Charles S. Marsden
fund..................................................  9,978.38
Stuart D. McCotter, Birmingham; to establish the Burn Center
Building  fund..........................................  5,000.00




MARCH MEETING, 1979


233


McGraw Foundation, Elgin, Illinois; for the Business Administration Special fund.......................................  5,000.00
Agnes C. McKay Estate; for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay
Research fund........................................    6,580.52
Dorothy I. McKee, Tucson, Arizona; for the Law School fund    5,000.00
Michigan Eye Bank, Ann Arbor; for the Michigan Lions Eye
Bank fund..........................................   5,841.00
Michigan Heart Association, Southfield; for the Michigan Heart
Association   funds......................................  75,267.00
George E. Monroe Trust, Kalamazoo; for the following funds:
Alumni Center fund....................................   5,000.00
Athletic Scholarships fund...............................  1,000.00
Pending  Designation  fund...............................  10,000.00
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Lansing; for
the Muscular Dystrophy Association-Carlson fund......... 35,937.00
Robert E. Nederlander, Birmingham, for the following funds:
Athletic Scholarships fund..............................  100.00
Robert E. Nederlander Law School Faculty Support fund..  5,000.00
Dr. & Mrs. John H. Nolen, Muskegon; for the School of Dentistry
fund..................................................  5,000.00
Owens-Illinois, Toledo, Ohio; for the following funds:
Macromolecular Research Center fund....................  2,000.00
Owens-Illinois Fellowship in Materials and Metallurgical
Engineering  fund...................................  5,000.00
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland; for the Elsa U. Pardee funds 45,500.00
Pearlson Engineering Company, Inc., Miami, Florida; for the
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Building fund  20,000.00
J. Howard Pew Freedom Trust, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; for
the President Gerald R. Ford Library fund................ 100,000.00
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York; for the Diabetes Research fund  5,000.00
Pickands, Mather and Company, Cleveland, Ohio, for the Naval
Architecture and Marine Engineering Building fund........ 15,000.00
Eugene B. Power Trust, Ann Arbor, for the School of MusicDean's Discretionary fund......................................  5,000.00
Research to Prevent Blindness, Inc., New York, New York; for
the Research to Prevent Blindness fund..................  7,500.00
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Scholarship Trust, Springfield, Massachusetts; for the Frank E. Robbins Memorial-Medical
Scholarship   fund.......................................  8,111.51
Dr. Richard C. Schneider, Ann Arbor, for the following funds:
Neurosurgery Residents Education fund..................  2,000.00
Richard C. Schneider Neurosurgical fund.................  3,000.00
Raymond Schoder Charitable Foundation, Battle Creek; for the
Schoder Foundation Cleft Palate Clinic fund..............  5,000.00
Sarah A. Stewart Estate; to establish the Harry H. Despond Research  fund.......................................  10,621.72
Townsend and Bottum, Inc., Ann Arbor; for the College of Architecture and Urban Planning Computer Laboratory fund....  9,000.00
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor, for
the following funds:
Engineering Building Gifts fund......................... 200,000.00
Interdisciplinary Program in the Prevention of Child Abuse
and  Neglect  fund......................................  118,000.00
President Gerald R. Ford Libary fund.................... 100,000.00
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio; for the TRW Lectureships
fund..................................................  15,000.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, for the following funds:
Center for Continuing Education of Women-Student Financial Aid  fund.......................................  1,000.00




234


MARCH MEETING, 1979


Mary S. and William H. Gilbert Heart Research fund....  12,000.00
Faye E. Wyllie Heart Research fund..................... 10,000.00
Mary Ann and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr. Fund, Deerfield, Illinois;
for the Walgreen Education fund in Pharmacy............. 12,500.00
Arthur Young Foundation, New York, New York; Matching gifts
for the following funds:
Athletic Scholarship fund...............................  100.00
Business  School fund...................................  275.00
Law   School fund.......................................  200.00
Law School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund..........   800.00
School of Music fund...................................    10.00
Paton Center for Accounitng fund........................  2,050.00
William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship fund............  625.00
Unrestricted fund......................................    80.00
WUOM    fund.......................................        15.00
Arthur Young Accounting Professorship fund.............  1,000.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Dr. Samuel D. Harris, Detroit. Automated Building Components,
common stock; for the Pending Designation fund.......... 12,187.50
Mrs. Benjamin G. Holtom, Battle Creek. Kellogg Company, common stock; for the Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin G. Holtom fund  26,531.25
Mrs. Gwyn M. Hughes, New York, New York. American International Group, Inc., common stock; to establish the Gwynn
M. Hughes Memorial fund..............................    9,700.00
Charles S. Hutchins, Ann Arbor. Manufacturing Data Systems,
Inc., common stock; divided as follows:
Engineering Building Gifts fund.......................... 38,250.00
School of M usic fund...................................  1,000.00
Mr. & Mrs. G. Lawton Johnson, Lyme, New Hampshire. Continental Oil Company, common stock; for the Clyde Johnson
Scholarship fund.......................................  26,812.50
George Katona, Ann Arbor. Schlumberger, Limited, common
stock; for the George Katona Fund, to participate in The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income fund..........   8,868.75
Mrs. Joan M. Kleinpell, Flint. Bendix Corporation, common
stock; for the  President's  fund..........................  10,132.50
Mr. & Mrs. Arthur B. Lundahl, Moline, Illinois. Deere and Company, restricted common stock; for the President's fund.... 31,165.00
Elizabeth S. Licht Estate. Kimberly-Clark Corporation, common
stock; to establish the Sydney Licht fund.................  9,779.01
Mrs. Judith Towsley Manos, Ann Arbor. Dow Chemical Company,
common stock; divided as follows:
Athletic Scholarships fund...............................  2,035.00
President Gerald R. Ford Library fund...................  4,070.00
Power Center for the Performing Arts- Equipment fund.... 10,175.00
Summer Session Dance Residency Program fund...........    508.75
University Musical Society fund.........................  508.75
C. Blake McDowell, Jr., Akron, Ohio. Knight-Ridder Newspapers,
Inc., restricted common stock, for the Law School fund....  5,906.25
Mary M. Park Estate. American Telephone and Telegraph, Mobil
Oil Corporation, and Standard Oil (Indiana), common stocks;
for the Colin S. and Mary M. Park Scholarship fund...... 18,153.56
Mr. & Mrs. Eugene B. Power, Ann Arbor. Xerox Corporation,
common stock; for the Power Center fund............... 135,781.25
Miss Dorothy Pudrith, Detroit. Hewlett-Packard, common stock;
for  the  Gerontology  fund..............................  8,818.75
Mr. & Mrs. John E. Riecker, Midland. Dow Chemical Company,
common stock; divided as follows:




MARCH MEETING, 1979


235


President Gerald R. Ford Library fund....................  3,825.00
Law School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund..........  2,550.00
Mr. & Mrs. Wallace D. Riley, Grosse Pointe Farms. Pepsico, Inc.,
common stock; for the Law School fund................  6,418.75
Mr. & Mrs. John M. Rosso, Birmingham. Houdaille Industries,
Inc., common stock; for Athletic Scholarships fund........  5,160.00
Dr. George O. Stead, Elma, New York. Teledyne, Inc., common
stock; for the School of Dentistry fund.................  9,193.75
Mrs. Ann Taylor Van Rosevelt, Ann Arbor. Coca-Cola Company,
common stocks and dividend of $254.03; for the Kelsey Museum Associates fund..................................  25,074.03
Dr. & Mrs. Elmore C. Vonder Heide, St. Clair Shores. WarnerLambert Company, common stock; for the Elmore C. and
Vera B. Vonder Heide Fund, to participate in the University
of Michigan Donor Pooled Insome fund..................  10,225.00
Charles R. Walgreen, Jr., Wilmette, Illinois. General American Oil
Company of Texas, common stock; for the Walgreen Educational fund in Pharmacy................................  26,975.00
Charles R. Walgreen, III, Trust, Deerfield, Illinois. Gulf Oil Corporation, common stock; for the Walgreen Educational fund
in Pharmacy...........................................  18,840.00
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mr. & Mrs. Donald E. Beebe, Flushing. A complete set of Life
magazine, from November 23, 1936 to December 29, 1972,
for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Prof. Robbins Burling, Ann Arbor. Twenty-eight books, 30 reprints, and 11 journals in Linguistics and Anthropology, for
for the Mischa Titiev Library.
John C. Dann, Dexter. A bound volume of 30 pamphlets
(Speeches) by various publishers; C. Marshall's printed invitation from the Pennsylvania Society for the Encouragement
of Manufacturers, and 11 books from the early and mid-19th
Century-for the Clements Library
Mrs. Reynolds M. Denning, Ann Arbor. Handicrafts of Chola
Indians, including a portfolio of Chancay and Chimu artifacts,
for the Museum of Anthropology
Harry Ford, Ann Arbor. Three disk cartridges, for use in a top
loading Caelus 303/2 disk drive, for the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases
Prof. & Mrs. Otto G. Graf, Ann Arbor. Two Japanese scroll facsimiles: one of a Japanese painting, and one of a Chinese text,
for the History of Art Department
Prof. Ludwig Koenen, Ann Arbor. Volumes 27-31 of Zeitschrift
fur Papyrologie und Epigraphik; for the Department of Classical Studies
Prof. Lubomyr M. Kowal, Flint. A book entitled: Comparative
Economic Systems: Models and Cases, by Morris Bornstein;
for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Dr. Horace M. Miner, Ann Arbor. Two 18th Century, antique
firearms: an Italian Blunderbuss, and a Kentucky rifle (made
by H. Albright of Lancaster, Pennsylvania); for the Clements
Library
Prof. Felix E. Moore, Ann Arbor. Journal volumes as follows:
Journal of the American Statistical Association (72-73),
Biometrics (33-34), Population Index (43-44), American
Statistician (29-32), and Demography (15); for the Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health
Prof. Roy A. Rappaport, Ann Arbor. Three books, for the Mischa
Titiev Library




236


MARCH MEETING, 1979


Dr. & Mrs. John W. Shy, Ann Arbor. An English porcelain tea
and coffee service for 16, for the Clements Library
Dr. William Randolph Taylor, Ann Arbor. Three books, for the
Library of the University of Michigan Herbarium
Dr. Robert M. Warner, Ann Arbor. A book entitled: Custer's Ohio
Boyhood, by Charles B. Wallace, and two volumes of Who's
Who in America (40th edition), for the Bentley Historical
Library
Prof. J. Philip Wernette, Ann Arbor. A Dracena Marginata, for
the School of Business Administration Library
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
Appointments        NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 1979
Nancy Martin, Ph.D., Professor of Computer Science, with tenure, and
Chairperson of the Department of Computer Science, UM-Flint, for
a three-year term
Charles Lambert Trowbridge, M.S., Professor of Actuarial Science, without
tenure, for a three-year term
Promotions, etc.  CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Julius S. Cohen, Professor of Education, also appointed Acting Director,
Institute for the Study of Mental Retardation and Related Disabilities,
January 1, 1979 to June 30, 1979
John D. Nystuen, Professor of Geography, also appointed Chairman, Department of Geography, for a term beginning immediately, until June 30,
1984
Alan R. Price, Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, also appointed
Assistant Dean for Research Development, Medical School, March 21,
1979
Richard D. Remington, Professor of Public Health, reappointed Dean of the
School of Public Health, for a five-year term, July 1, 1979
Jane S. Schultz, Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, also appointed
Assistant Dean for Curriculum, Medical School, March 15, 1979
Alfred S. Sussman, Professor of Biological Sciences, reappointed Dean of the
Rackham School of Graduate Studies, for a five-year term, July 1, 1979
Norman Winslow Thompson, Professor of Surgery, appointed as the Henry
King Ransom Professor of Surgery, March 16, 1979
Committee     The following committee appointment was approved:
Appointment
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Dean Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., for a term to begin immediately, and through
June 30, 1979, vice Associate Dean Alfred Swinyard, resigned
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:




MARCH MEETING, 1979


237


NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                        Appointments
Effective January 1, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
Assistant Professor
June Margaret Awrey, M.A., Nursing
Halley S. Faust, M.D., M.P.H., Epidemiology, February 1, 1979
Robert G. Latorre, Dr. Ing., Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Instructor
Elizabeth I. Lemmer, B.S., Pharmacy
Julia M. Thornbury, M.S.N., Nursing
Lecturer
Philip L. Stetson, B.S., Pharmacology
Visiting Associate Professor
Jane E. Kister, Ph.D., Mathematics
Visiting Assistant Professor
M. Emin Tacer, M.S., Electrical and Computer Engineering
Adjunct Assistant Professor
Mary Helen Morris, M.Ed., Nursing
Adjunct Lecturer
Paul S. Bielawski, M.A., Education
Norma J. Dewitt, Ph.D., Education, UM-Flint
Bonnie Jean Jobe, M.A., Education, UM-Dearborn
Janet Lennox Moyer, B.A., Art, February 4, 1979
Brian Wallace Smith, Education, UM-Dearborn
Clinical Assistant Professor
David S. Fredrick, Pharm. D., Pharmacy, March 1, 1979
Clinical Instructor
Thomas Ian McConnachie, D.D.S., Dentistry, January 29, 1979
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF Promotions
Effective January 1, 1979
Thomas W. Cobb, from Visiting Lecturer in Composition to Lecturer in
Humanities, UM-Dearborn
Edward E. Handley, from Lecturer to Assistant Professor of Education and
Lecturer in Health Behavior and Health Education
Snehendu B. Kar, from Associate Professor of Population Planning and
Health Education to Visiting Associate Professor of Health Behavior and
Health Education
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS                      Resignations
Effective on dates indicated
H. Douglas Brown, Associate Professor of Linguistics and Associate Professor
of Education, December 31, 1978
Albert H. Duncan, Adjunct Instructor in Economics, UM-Flint, January 26,
1979




238


MARCH MEETING, 1979


Roger T. Martindale, Assistant Dean and Admissions Officer, Law School,
February 28, 1979
Sharna Striar, Instructor in Nursing, May 31, 1978
Leaves of Absence  Four off-campus assignments, two leaves of absence without
salary, and twelve sabbatical leaves were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of one faculty
member. The following memoir was adopted.
R. Rapp,     ROBERT RAPP, M.D., Associate Professor of Radiology has retired
Retreemmeot from active faculty status as of January 10, 1979, after a most productive
career in teaching, research, patient care and administration.
Dr. Rapp received his M.D. in 1946 from Temple University School of
Medicine and had an internship and residency training in diagnostic radiology at the Reading General Hospital, Reading, Pennsylvania. He then
entered military service and from 1948-50 served as Associate Chief and then
Chief of Diagnostic Roentgenology at the 387th Station Hospital, U.S. Army,
in Stuttgart, Germany. Following his military service, he came to The
University of Michigan for a three year training period in radiology. Dr. Rapp
was appointed an Instructor of Radiology in 1953 and with the opening of the
Veterans Administration Hospital in October 1953, he assumed direction of
that department. In 1956 he was promoted to Assistant Professor and was
formally elevated to the title of Chief of Radiology at the Veterans Administration Hospital. In July of 1963 he was promoted to Associate
Professor.
With the exception of his Army service, Dr. Rapp's entire professional
career has been devoted to the patient care, teaching and research programs
at The University of Michigan as carried out at the Veterans Administration
Hospital. He has made significant contributions to our teaching program both
in residency training and in the senior elective program. In addition, he
participated in collaborative research with his colleagues on the staff of the
Veterans Administration Hospital. As the only Chief of Radiology which
that hospital has had to date, Dr. Rapp was instrumental in opening up the
facilities and putting them into operation as well as more recently overseeing
complete revision and expansion of the radiologic facilities which are now
second to none in the Ann Arbor area. The design of the installation and
the actual installation of the first body scanner in the Ann Arbor area was
accomplished under his administration. This installation has made a significant
contribution to the patient care programs in the Ann Arbor area and to the
teaching programs in many departments of the Veterans Hospital and the
University Hospital as well.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his
dedicated service by naming him Associate Professor Emeritus of Radiology.
VII. DEATHS
Vice-President Shapiro reported the deaths of Professor Emeritus Arthur Bromage and Dean Emeritus Henry Vaughan. He said
that Dean Vaughan essentially created the School of Public Health
and was a most distinguished personality ever to be at the
University.




MARCH MEETING, 1979


239


VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Degree Lists
Amended
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists: 
College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Master of Architecture, December 1978
add:
Thomas Jeffery Clarke
correct to show:
Lydia Alonso De Aldrey
Jeffery Scott Eckert, with Distinction
School of Art
Bachelor of Fine Arts, December 1978
delete:
Joann Emily Kallio
correct to show:
Urszula Teresa Krzyzowski, summa cum laude
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering, December 1978
Nuclear Engineering
add:
Davar Khalili
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, December 1978
Anthropology
delete:
Keewaydinoquay Peschel, B.S., Central Michigan University
Economics
correct to show:
Daniel Friedrich Kohler
Education
add:
Derryl Jean Bishop, A.B., University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff
Margaret Ellen Donahue, B.S., University of Missouri, Columbia
L. B. McCune, A.B., Roberts Wesleyan College
Gregory B. Monroe, B.S., University of Wisconsin, Madison
Charles Patrick Russian, B.S., Central Michigan University
Ernest Lee Sanders, B.S.Ed.
Christine Elizabeth Steeb, A.B.
correct to show:
Miwako Nakagawa
Linda Mary Tynan-Moceri




240


MARCH MEETING, 1979


Linguistics
add:
Ana Maria Sierra, Licenciado, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico
Near Eastern Languages and Literatures, December 1978
delete:
Ihsan Abdul-Wajid Bagby, A.B., Oberlin College
Near Eastern Studies
add:
Ihsan Abdul-Wajid Bagby, A.B., Oberlin College
Master of Arts, December 1977
Sociology
delete:
Jerome Toler, B.G.S., Wayne State University
Master of Landscape Architecture, December 1978
add:
Rick Kell Suttle, B.S.
Master of Public Policy, December 1978
add:
Isaac Taylor, A.B., Bishop College
Master of Fine Arts, December 1978
Dance
add:
Robert Stephen Handler
delete:
Donald Stephen Handler
Master of Science, December 1978
Biology
add:
Neil James Richardson, B.S.
Geology
add:
Andrew Nichols French, B.S., Tufts University
Speech
add:
Susan Jean Myron, A.B.
Master of Science, April 1978
Electrical Science
correct to show:
Sanjay D. Panditji, B.S., Nagpur University, India, M.S., ibid.
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Master of Management, December 1978
add:
Lawrence Arnold Denton, B.S., Michigan State University




MARCH MEETING, 1979


241


College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 1978
add:
Brenda Maxine Band
Robert J. Beson
Joan Binder, with High Distinction
Donna Marie Burke, with High Distinction
Desiree Monique Ferguson, with Distinction
John Alan Klostermann
Awouke Lantideru
Mary K. Lutz, with Distinction
Sally Arlesa Marone, with Distinction
Rebecca Ann Mase, with Distinction
Rosanna Val McClellan, with Distinction
Randy Howard Milgrom, with High Distinction
Thomas Traian Moga
Deborah Sue Netzley, with Distinction
Allan Brian Paul
Sheryl Fredda Stein, with Highest Distinction
correct to show:
Laura Ann Larsen
Russell Johnston Stambaugh, Jr., with High Distinction
Bachelor of Science, December 1978
add:
Marypat Abowd, with High Distinction
Carol Ann Marinch, with Distinction, Honors in Zoology
Mark William Osborn
Cary Nye Wieting
Bachelor in General Studies, December 1978
add:
Lynnette Mildred Stallworth Bracy
Anthony Dion Kent
Michael Patrick Leidy, with Distinction
Scott Andrew Weiss
correct to show:
Benjamin Ramirez-shkwegnaabi, with Distinction
School of Natural Resources
Bachelor of Science, December 1978
add:
Mark John McFadden
School of Social Work
Master of Social Work, August 1970
add:
William Vaniman Dyer, B.A., Miami University
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Degrees
Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the December, 1978     Confirmed
Commencement exercises for the Law School.




242


MARCH MEETING, 1979


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Donor Pooled  After review by Vice-President Brinkerhoff, Regent Roach
moved to accept the audit report for the Donor Pooled Income
Fund for the year ending December 31, 1978. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Hospital Budget  The Regents received a report on University Hospital budget
parameters for the year 1979-80.
Student Loan  Regent Roach moved to authorize the University to enter into
Marketing
Association a loan sale agreement with the Student Loan Marketing Association. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach commented that there should be no student at
this University who needs a loan and cannot get one.
Law SchooibraAd on  Approval of a new budget for the Law School library addition
was moved by Regent Roach, seconded by Regent Power, and
adopted.
WUOM      Regent Laro moved to adopt the resolution below authorizing
filing an application and agreement for installation of a satellite
ground terminal facility for station WUOM. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
RESOLUTION
WHEREAS, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB) will make
funds available to The University of Michigan for the installation of a satellite ground terminal facility for station WUOM, and has furnished a form
of application and agreement for execution by the University as a condition
of receiving such funds.
THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED that Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer James F. Brinkerhoff be and he is hereby authorized to execute
and file said application and agreement in the form attached to this Resolution
as Exhibit A, including all understandings and assurances contained therein,
and the Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer is further directed and
authorized to provide such additional information as may be required by
CPB in the implementation of said agreement.
Real Property  Regent Power moved to authorize the purchase of the property
at 930 Wall Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Regent Laro seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
Renovations  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed six remodeling projects.
Regent Baker then moved approval of the following projects as
recommended: Central Power Plant waste water neutralization
facility: 1979-80 parking operations maintenance program; energy
conservation items in the School of Education, the School of Public
Health, and the Health Services Building; G. G. Brown building
cooling tower replacement; chiller replacement at the Mendelssohn
Theatre; and replacement of the roof drainage system at the
Lawyer's Club. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it
was adopted.




MARCH MEETING, 1979


243


The Regents received a status report of the 1977-78 energy        Energ Managemanagement programs.
The Regents received a report on the replacement of the IBM       eplemente
370/158 computer.
Regent Roach moved to adopt the following resolution pro-         Computer
viding for the borrowing of funds and to approve the term loan          chase
arrangement with the Detroit Bank and Trust Company for the
purchase of an Amdahl 470V/7 computer for the Computer Center.
Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE BORROWING OF FUNDS
FOR PAYING THE COST OF ACQUIRING AN AMDAHL 470V/7
FOR USE IN THE UNIVERSITY COMPUTING CENTER
WHEREAS, the Regents of The University of Michigan (the terms
"Regents" and "University" hereinafter refer to the Regents or the University
or both as the context permits or requires), in the exercise of its constitutional
duties, has determined that it is necessary and expedient to acquire an
Amdahl 470V/7 computer for use in the University Computing Center (the
"Project") so that it can properly serve the needs of students attending the
University; and
WHEREAS, it is estimated that the cost of acquiring the Project and
expenses incidental thereto will be $2,630,000.00; and
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Regents it is necessary and expedient
that it borrow by means of a commercial bank loan the sum of $2,400,000.00
to be used by it to pay part of the cost of the Project; and
WHEREAS, the Project will be for the benefit of all students at the
University; and
WHEREAS, it is proposed that the University borrow the sum of
$2,400,000.00 from the Detroit Bank and Trust Company, a Michigan bank
corporation (the "Bank") at the rate and for the period set forth below, and
subject to terms to be set forth in a Term Loan and Security Agreement (the
"Agreement") to be prepared and executed by the hereinafter designated
officers of the University with the Bank and a related Note (the "Note");
Now, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the Regents borrow for such
purposes the sum of $2,400,000.00 from the Bank upon the terms and conditions to be more fully set forth in the Agreement. The loan is to be for a
term of approximately four (4) years, being repayable on April 1, 1980-1983,
as set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto at an interest rate of 5-7/8% per
annum. The repayment of the loan is to be secured solely by a pledge of
Student Fees, as to be defined in the Agreement. In the event that Student
Fees are not sufficient to repay said loan, the loan will be paid to the extent
necessary from Funds Legally Available Therefore, as to defined in the Agreement; and
Be It Further Resolved that the Regents will cause to be segregated and
allocated from Student Fees, for so long as any portion of the principal or
interest on the Note shall remain unpaid, an amount sufficient to pay the
installments of principal and interest on the Note as they fall due, as to be
provided in the Agreement. The Regents further covenants and agrees that
it will cause to be charged and will use its best effort to cause to be collected
Students Fees sufficient in amount to meet its obligations under the Note
and the Agreement; and




244


MARCH MEETING, 1979


Be It Further Resolved that James F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President of the
Regents, and Richard L. Kennedy, its Secretary, be and they are hereby
authorized, empowered, and directed in the name of the Regents and as its
corporate act and deed to negotiate the terms and provisions of the Note
and the Agreement, execute the Agreement and the Note in the amount of
$2,400,000.00 to the Bank, and to execute the other documents and to take
the other actions required to obtain the loan, provided, however, that the
terms and provisions of the Note and the Agreement shall be substantially the
same as the terms and provisions of the Note and Term Loan and Security
Agreements previously entered into between the University and various
commercial banks, and provided further, that the terms of the Agreement
relating to the amount of the loan, the rate of interest, the period of the loan,
and the security for the loan shall be as herein specified; and
Be It Further Resolved that the said officers, in the execution of the Note
and the Agreement, shall not pledge the credit of, or create any liability on
the part of, the State of Michigan, the Regents, or any member or officer of
this Board, or any of their successors, other than to pledge or commit Student
Fees and Funds Legally Available Therefor, as provided in the Agreement, and
Be It Further Resolved that should it develop that James F. Brinkerhoff,
Vice-President of the Regents, through illness, absence or otherwise, be unable
to perform the acts he is herein authorized, empowered and directed to perform, then, in that case, Chandler W. Matthews, Controller of the Regents,
is hereby empowered and directed to perform any and all acts and deeds
herein authorized and directed to be performed by the said James F. Brinkerhoff, and any action taken by Chandler W. Matthews shall be as binding on
the Regents as if performed by the said James F. Brinkerhoff, and
Be It Further Resolved that should it develop that Richard L. Kennedy,
Secretary of the Regents, through illness, absence, or otherwise, be unable to
perform the acts he is herein authorized, empowered and directed to perform,
then, in that case, Chandler W. Matthews, Controller of the Regents, is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to perform any and all acts and deeds
herein authorized and directed to be performed by the said Richard L.
Kennedy, and any action so taken by Chandler W. Matthews shall be as
binding on the Regents as if performed by the said Richard L. Kennedy.
Be It Further Resolved that the said officers are authorized, if they so
desire, to sign the Note and the Agreement and any other documents required
to obtain the loan as J. F. Brinkerhoff, R. L. Kennedy, or C. W. Matthews,
respectively.
Exhibit A                                         Ann Arbor, Michigan
NOTE
$2,400,000                                             March 20, 1979
The Regents of The University of Michigan, a body corporate created
by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan, promises to
pay to the order of The Detroit Bank and Trust Company at its main office
in the City of Detroit, Michigan, the sum of Two Million Four Hundred
Thousand ($2,400,000) Dollars, together with interest thereon at the rate of
5-7/8% per annum upon all principal sums at any time and from time to
time unpaid hereon; but only from Student Fees and Funds Legally Available
Therefor, each as defined in a certain Term Loan and Security Agreement
between the Regents of The University of Michigan and The Detroit Bank
and Trust Company, Detroit, Michigan, dated March 20, 1979. Payment
shall be as follows:




MARCH MEETING, 1979


245


Payment Date       Interest Payment Principal Payment Total Payment
October 1, 1979                          $  0
April 1, 1980                             550,000
October 1, 1980                             0
April 1, 1981                             580,000
October 1, 1981                             0
April 1, 1982                             615,000
October 1, 1982                             0
April 1, 1983                             655,000
The foregoing payments shall be subject to adjustment as provided in
the Term Loan and Security Agreement in the event of prepayment of
principal as provided therein.
This Note is issued pursuant to, is entitled to the benefits, and is subject
to all of the terms and conditions of the Term Loan and Security Agreement
hereinbefore described.
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN
B y....................................
J. F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President
B y....................................
R. L. Kennedy, Secretary
Regent Baker moved to approve the following revised resolu-      Library,
tions requested by the State Building Authority for the Dearborn     UM-Dearbor
Library and the Medical Campus Library. The resolutions rescind
those adopted by the Regents on December 15, 1978. Regent Laro
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
RESOLUTION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING LEASE FOR DEARBORN CAMPUS
A RESOLUTION of the Board of Regents of The University of Michigan
authorizing a lease between the State Building Authority and the State of
Michigan and The University of Michigan for the purpose of acquiring and
leasing to the State and the University a Library for the Dearborn Campus
and to provide matters relating thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority") has been
incorporated under and in pursuance of the provisions of Act 183, Public Acts
of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of acquiring,
constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots
and facilities and sites therefor, for the use of the State of Michigan (the
"State"), including institutions of higher education created pursuant to
Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, or
any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, The University of Michigan (the "University") has been
created and is maintained pursuant to Section 5 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963; and




246


MARCH MEETING, 1979


WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority acquire
a Library for the Dearborn Campus (the "Facilities"), and lease the same
to the State and the University, and the Authority is willing to acquire the
Facilities and lease the same to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, the Authority, by resolution adopted June 21, 1978, did determine, subject to the conditions set forth in such resolution, to acquire the
Facilities and to lease them to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, the site of the Facilities (the "Site") is presently owned by
the University and the Facilities are now under construction by the University
which construction is being supervised by qualified University staff and it is
intended that the Site be conveyed to the Authority and the Facilities be
conveyed by the University to the Authority as acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facilities by the Authority for use by
and lease to the University and the State is necessary in order for the State
and the University to carry out necessary governmental functions and to
provide necessary services to the people of the State, as mandated or permitted by Constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such
acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest
cost to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, a new form of lease between the Authority and the State and
the University providing for the acquisition of the Site and the Facilities by
the Authority and the lease of the Site and the Facilities to the State and the
University has been prepared in substantially final form and is attached
hereto as Exhibit A (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved
by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution
of the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members
elected to and serving in each house and if the Lease is for an institution of
higher education existing or created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of
Article VIII of the State Constitution, then in addition the Lease shall be
authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized
officers, and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Board of Regents of the
University authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Regents of the University, by resolution adopted
on 12-15-78 authorized and approved a form of lease containing a true
rental which now has been revised and which lease has been further revised
to better achieve the best interests of the University and it is now appropriate to rescind the resolution approving the form of lease adopted on
12-15-78; and
WHEREAS, the Authority shall finance a part of the cost of the Facilities
through the issuance of its revenue bonds as authorized in Act 183 which
together with other funds legally available therefor will be sufficient to
finance the cost of the Facilities, and it is necessary for authorized officers
of the University to approve of the description of the Facilities and the
inclusion of certain financial statements of the University for use in the
official statement (the "Official Statement") to be distributed by the
Authority in connection with the sale of its revenue bonds;
Now, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY THAT:
1. The Board of Regents of the University hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A and the
President and Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of the University
are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for and on behalf of the University
at such time as shall be agreeable to the State, the Authority and such Uni



MARCH MEETING, 1979


247


versity officers and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers
of the University for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183; provided such officers
are not hereby authorized to approve of a change in the lease with respect
to the rental, the description of the Facilities or the material financial
obligations of the University contained in the lease approved herein.
2. The plans for the Facilities, as filed with the University, are hereby
approved.
3. The conveyance of the Site and the Facilities, as heretofore and hereafter constructed and acquired, to the Authority as provided in the Lease
is hereby approved and the President and Vice-President and Chief Financial
Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute deeds
and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be from
time to time approved by counsel for the University.
4. The President and Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer are
hereby authorized and directed to approve the description of the Facilities
and the inclusion of such financial statements of the University as may be
required for use in the Official Statement to be distributed by the Authority
in connection with the sale of its revenue bonds.
5. The University further confirms its obligations to pay the rent and
perform the other duties and obligations specified in the Lease and acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon the passage of the title to
the Facilities to the University or the State without consideration and the
University hereby represents that it would have executed and delivered
the Lease even though the title to the Facilities would not pass upon the
termination of the Lease.
6. The resolution of the Board approving a form of lease and adopted
on 12-15-78 is hereby rescinded. All ordinances, resolutions and orders or
parts thereof in conflict with the provision of this resolution are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
RESOLUTION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN                       Medical Center
APPROVING LEASE FOR ANN ARBOR CAMPUS                          Library and
Learning
A RESOLUTION of the Board of Regents of The University of Michigan  Resources Center
authorizing a lease between the State Building Authority and the State of
Michigan and The University of Michigan for the purpose of acquiring and
leasing to the State and the University a Medical Center Library and Learning
Resources Center for the Ann Arbor Campus and to provide matters relating
thereto.
WHEREAS, the State Building Authority (the "Authority") has been
incorporated under and in pursuance of the provisions of Act 183, Public Acts
of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the purpose of acquiring,
constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging, operating,
mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots
and facilities and sites therefor, for the use of the State of Michigan (the
"State"), including institutions of higher education created pursuant to
Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1963, or
any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, The University of Michigan (the "University") has been
created and is maintained pursuant to Section 5 of Article VIII of the
Michigan Constitution of 1963; and
WHEREAS, the State and the University desire that the Authority acquire
a Medical Center Library and Learning Resources Center for the Ann Arbor
Campus (the "Facilities"), and lease the same to the State and the University;
and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facilities and lease the same
to the State and the University; and




248


MARCH MEETING, 1979


WHEREAS, the Authority, by resolution adopted June 21, 1978, did
determine, subject to the conditions set forth in such resolution, to acquire
the Facilities and to lease them to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, the site of the Facilities (the "Site") is presently owned by
the University and the Facilities are now under construction by the University
which construction is being supervised by qualified University staff and it
is intended that the Site be conveyed to the Authority and the Facilities
be conveyed by the University to the Authority as acquired; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facilities by the Authority for use by
and lease to the University and the State is necessary in order for the State
and the University to carry out necessary governmental functions and to
provide necessary services to the people of the State, as mandated or permitted by Constitution and law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such
acquisition represents the most practical means to that end at the lowest cost
to the State and the University; and
WHEREAS, a new form   of lease between the Authority and the State
and the University providing for the acquisition of the Site and the Facilities
by the Authority and the lease of the Site and the Facilities to the State and
the University has been prepared in substantially final form and is attached
hereto as Exhibit A (the "Lease"); and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved
by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution
of the Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members
elected to and serving in each house and if the Lease is for an institution of
higher education existing or created pursuant to Sections 5, 6 and 7 of Article
VIII of the State Constitution, then in addition the Lease shall be authorized
by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized officers
and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Board of Regents of the University
authorize and approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Regents of the University, by resolution adopted
on 12-15-78 authorized and approved a form of lease containing a true
rental which now has been revised and which lease has been further revised
to better achieve the best interests of the University and it is now appropriate
to rescind the resolution approving the form of lease adopted on 12-15-78;
and
WHEREAS, the Authority shall finance a part of the cost of the Facilities
through the issuance of its revenue bonds as authorized in Act 183 which
together with other funds legally available therefor will be sufficient to
finance the cost of the Facilities, and it is necessary for authorized officers
of the University to approve of the description of the Facilities and the
inclusion of certain financial statements of the University for use in the
official statement (the "Official Statement") to be distributed by the Authority
in connection with the sale of its revenue bonds;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY THAT:
1. The Board of Regents of the University hereby authorizes and
approves the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A and the
President and Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer of the University are
hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Lease in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for and on behalf of the University
at such time as shall be agreeable to the State, the Authority and such University officers and such officers are hereby designated as authorized officers
of the University for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183; provided such officers
are not hereby authorized to approve of a change in the lease with respect




MARCH MEETING, 1979


249


to the rental, the description of the Facilities or the material financial
obligations of the University contained in the lease approved herein.
2. The plans for the Facilities, as filed with the University, are hereby
approved.
3. The conveyance of the Site and the Facilities, as heretofore and hereafter constructed and acquired, to the Authority as provided in the Lease is
hereby approved and the President and Vice-President and Chief Financial
Officer of the University are hereby authorized and directed to execute deeds
and bills of sale to accomplish such conveyance in such form as may be from
time to time approved by counsel for the University.
4. The President and Vice-President and Chief Financial Officer are
hereby authorized and directed to approve the description of the Facilities
and the inclusion of such financial statements of the University as may be
required for use in the Official Statement to be distributed by the Authority
in connection with the sale of its revenue bonds.
5. The University further confirms its obligations to pay the rent and
perform the other duties and obligations specified in the Lease and acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon the passage of the title to
the Facilities to the University or the State without consideration and the
University hereby represents that it would have executed and delivered the
Lease even though the title to the Facilities would not pass upon the termination of the Lease.
6. The resolution of the Board approving a form of lease and adopted
on 12-15-78 is hereby rescinded. All ordiances, resolutions and orders or
parts thereof in conflict with the provision of this resolution are, to the
extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
The Regents approved the appointment of Rinaldo L. Bianchi
as trustee for the W. W. Cook Trust as recommended by the Law
School.
The item seeking approval of design for the recreational facility
and arrival court at UM-Flint was deferred.
Chancellor Moran reviewed the preparation phase of the Public
Television project capital budget. Regent Baker moved to approve
the project, Regent Laro seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents received a copy of the lease agreement between
the Genesee County Roard Commission and the UM-Flint for
the Flint Public Television project.
Regent Roach moved to approve the request for the University
of Michigan to become a member of the Research Libraries Group
(RLG) by contributing $10,000 on an annual basis. Regent Power
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker read the following excerpts from the article
"Reflections on the Ethical Responsibilities of the University in
Society: An Open Letter to the Harvard Community," by Derek
Bok, President of Harvard University, which was published in the
Harvard University Gazette, March 9, 1979:
"During the past year, I have received a number of requests
that Harvard sever connections on moral grounds with particular


R. L. Bianchi,
Appointed Trustee,
Cook Trust
Recreational
Facility, UMFlint
Public Television,
UM-Flint
Membership
Approved
Ethical
Responsibilities of
the University,
Article by D. Bok




250


MARCH MEETING, 1979


individuals, corporations, and even governments. One group has
asked the University not to dispense Nestle products in its dining
halls because the company is said to endanger the health of infants
by promoting the use of powdered formula in Third World countries. Other groups have urged us to divest all of our stock in
companies doing business in South Africa. Still others have argued
that we should return a gift and refuse to name a library after a
man who made a substantial part of his fortune in South African
mining. Finally, a few students petitioned us last December to
suspend a contract on the planning of a new university in Iran
and issue a declaration that we would not resume work until
martial law was lifted and a civilian government installed.
"Universities are designed to achieve particular purposes. Their
special mission is the discovery and transmission of knowledge.
In performing these functions, they may receive support from
many sources in society. Their members may have a wide variety
of relationships with public and private organizations. Their professors may affect many areas of society through teaching and
research. Nevertheless, unlike other organizations, such as political
parties, environmental associations, or civil rights groups, their
institutional goal is not to reform society in specific ways. Universities have neither the mandate nor the competence to administer foreign policy, set our social and economic priorities,
enforce standards of conduct in the society, or carry out other
social functions apart from learning and discovery.
"Since universities play such an important role in our society,
any policy that threatens their academic functions takes on a
significance that transcends the private interests of individual
students and faculty members. Although this point may seem
obvious, it has not been universally respected. In many countries
today, as in the past, individuals within and outside the university
try repeatedly to use the institution as an instrument to influence
political disputes and affect other controversies in the larger
society. These efforts have weakened universities abroad by distracting their members from teaching and learning and by inviting
outside interference to control their activities for political ends.
"All persons should be completely free to form their opinions,
communicate them openly, and join with others as individuals to
work for their adoption. This liberty includes the right to express
the most unconventional and unpopular views, even if they offend
other members of the university community or arouse the anger
of powerful groups in the society.
"Intellectual freedom is not a condition that is merely desirable.
It is essential to the progress of learning and discovery to which
the institution is committed, and any course of action that endangers it must arouse the gravest concern. This is why universities




MARCH MEETING, 1979


251


have long been skeptical of proposals that would lead them to
establish an offiical morality by taking institutional positions on
ethical and political questions.
"Proposals to have Harvard sever its connection with other
institutions and governments for political or moral reasons often
have an objective beyond merely asking the University to make its
position clear. They represent an effort to obtain precisely that
'institutional political commitment... carried into active support'
that the Governance Committee rejected so emphatically. By
inducing Harvard to break off relations, proponents hope to attract
publicity, strengthen an economic boycott, or otherwise bring
pressure to bear against those who are thought to be acting
immorally. Such objectives give rise to a second concern. For
many decades, universities have struggled to be free from pressures
exerted by other groups in the society to compromise our academic
freedom and intrude upon our right to make our own academic
decisions. This protection from outside influence is essential to the
integrity of instruction and research. It is the shield that guards
the right of all who teach and learn to express their own convictions however unorthodox or unsettling they may be.
"If we wish to preserve our independence, we should remember
that society respects the freedom of academic institutions only
because it assumes that they will devote themselves to the academic pursuits for which that freedom was extended. This does
not mean that universities cannot influence events beyond the
campus. It does mean that such influence should be exerted only
by fostering the reasoned expression of ideas and arguments.
Universities that violate this social compact do so at their peril.
They cannot expect to remain free of outside interference if they
insist on arrogating to themselves the right to use economic
leverage to influence the activities of others. As a result, universities that cherish their academic freedom should properly look
with suspicion at proposals to participate in boycotts or resort to
other forms of economic pressure.
"If the University is to act in a principal fashion, it must also
avoid dealing with moral issues on an ad hoc basis and must try
instead to apply its standards consistently. It has an obligation
to ascertain all the relevant facts and to offer each party to the
dispute an opportunity to state its views. An undertaking of this
kind can impose a heavy burden of time and effort on faculty
members and administrators, especially if the University must
take on the task of assuring itself of the ethical standards of all
donors, all suppliers, and all corporations with which it has relationships. In the end, this burden will inevitably fall on the academic work of the institution by diverting time and resources from
teaching and research.




252


MARCH MEETING, 1979


"Injustice and suffering are plainly matters of grave concern.
We may justly feel impelled to give our time and effort as individuals to the struggle against these evils. We may also expect
the University not to act deliberately to increase the sufferings
of others. But the principal issue before us is whether we should
go further and use the University as a means of expressing moral
disapproval or as a weapon in our fight against injustice even if
we threaten to injure the academic functions of the institution."
"One may still ask that the University take account of injuries
elsewhere in the world, even if its acts are only symbolic. Nevertheless, there comes a point where symbolism must give away to
real threats to academic freedom, real financial losses, and real
administrative burdens. If we do not acknowledge this point, we
will merely succeed in damaging important functions of the
University without doing anything to alleviate the suffering of
others in seeking to improve the human conditions, we may end
by only making it worse."
Turner Geriatric  The Regents received an informational item      on the Turner
Clinic,....
Geriatric Clinic.
Euctol of    Regent Nederlander moved approval of the following resoluEducation,
Resolution tion. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents of The University of Michigan salute the School of Education on the occasion of its Centennial year. Established in 1879, by Regental
action, as the Professorship of the Science and Art of Teaching and organized
as the School of Education, also by Regental action, in 1921, its Faculty
has won worldwide acclaim for its contributions to the study of Education
within a university context. In Michigan the School has been a recognized
leader in the education of secondary school teachers from the time of its
inception and of elementary school teachers for the past thirty-five years.
It has played a crucial role in the development of school administration and
in the creation of a profession of teaching throughout the United States. Its
Faculty should be recognized also for the allied efforts to promote educational
process in other professions and social institutions. Over the century of its
existence the School has consistently been ranked as a graduate department
of highest quality. Its alumni occupy posts of distinction at every level.
A unique feature of the work of the School has been its close assocation
with the College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and other undergraduate
schools, in the education of teachers and with graduate departments of the
University in the award of thousands of M.A. and Ph.D. degrees. Thus,
praise for its century of contributions must include commendations to
associated schools and colleges.
The School has extended service through class instruction and consultation to citizen groups, school boards and administrators, teachers and other
educators in virtually every community in the upper and lower peninsulas.
The Regents applaud the School of Education for its leadership in
teaching, research and service to the University and to other educational
institutions and extend their commendations, congratulations and good wishes
as the School enters its second century.




MARCH MEETING, 1979


253


Regent Nederlander then read the following resolution:               esolution
A Salute to Professor and Mrs. William Haber
Upon the Occasion of their Eightieth Birthday
One cannot conceive of The University of Michigan and the City of
Ann Arbor without the consciousness that somehow at the very center,
making the communities of town and gown revolve as harmoniously as the
planets around the sun, are Bill and Fanny Haber.
Bill, professor, dean, and advisor to successive administrations is revered
and beloved by all. Born in Milwaukee, he grew up in the slums of the
Economics Building. There he so distinguished himself that he was made
Dean of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. Under his inspired
leadership the College grew in size and prestige, and incidentally when he was
Dean, faculty meetings were so well attended they had to be held in Trueblood Auditorium. As roving diplomat to presidents of the University, Bill,
in times of peace and war, is always keen, always witty, always indispensable.
And what a helpmeet for him and for us is Fanny! While Bill was
mastering the discipline of Economics, she walked out of the thirty-first
chapter of the Book of Proverbs-a worthy woman, her price is far above
rubies; the heart of her husband trusteth her; she doeth good and not evil
all the days of her life. Beautiful, charming, generous as wife, mother, and
hostess, Fanny is also indispensable.
During the month that Bill and Fanny Haber together reach the enviable
age of EIGHTY, we tender them this resolution in token of our esteem and
affection.
All of the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of February totaled $2,389.50.
The Regents adjourned to meet on April 19 and 20, 1979.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




254


MARCH MEETING, 1979


INDEX
Appointments, 236, 237; committee, 236
Bianchi, R. L., appointed trustee of Cook Trust, 249
Bok, D., excerpts from article on Ethical Responsibility, 219
Budget for 1979-80, reviewed, 224
Communication, Department of, established, 223
Computer purchase, 243; replacement, 243
Dearborn: library, 245
Degrees: lists amended, 239; confirmed, 241
Donor Pooled Income Fund, audit report, 242
Education, School of, resolution, 252
Energy Management Programs, 243
Ethical Responsibilities of the University, article by D. Bok, 219
Fees: undergraduate tuition for 1979-80 approved, 224
Gifts, 230
Haber, Dr. and Mrs. William, resolution, 253
Hospital: budget parameters for 1979-80, 242
Investment policies: in South Africa, 223, 226; to be reviewed, 226; companies to respond to Sullivan Principles, 227
Law School Library addition budget, 242
Leaves of absence, 238
Medical Center Library and Learning Resources Center, 247
Membership approved, 249
Promotions, 236, 237
Prospective Scholars Program, 230
Public Comments, 224
Rapp, R., retirement memoir, 238
Real property, 242
Regents' meeting recessed, 228; location changed, 228
Renovations, 242
Resignations, 237
Restraining order, 229
Student Loan Marketing Association, 242
Theatre and Drama, Department of, established, 223
Tuition and fees for 1979-80, 224
Turner Geriatric Clinic, 252
WUOM, satellite ground terminal facility, 242




APRIL MEETING, 1979
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, APRIL 19, 1979
The Regents met at 1:30 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach and Waters. Chancellors Goodall and
Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present. Regent Laro was absent.
President Smith announced that because of the large group
of people to accommodate, the meeting would relocate in the
Michigan Union Ballroom.
President Smith commented that there is on the agenda an
action item concerning a portion of the University's investment
portfolio. That item will be discussed at 10:30 A.M. on Friday,
April 20. There was also an informal meeting before the commencement of the regular formal meeting between some black
students and some Regents concerning recruitment and retention
of minority students. The Regents have suggested that this topic
be placed on the agenda for discussion immediately following the
investment discussion.
Vice-President Johnson then reviewed the financial report and
the audit report concerning Michigan Student Assembly.
In response to questions by the Regents, Vice-President Johnson indicated that the 1978-79 Michigan Student Assembly
budget did not include reimbursement to the Michigan Union
for rent; did include all but $5,000 of personnel expenditures; the
sizeable allocation to the Tenants Union reflected the six-cent
assessment approved by the Regents in July, 1978; and all
requests for funds are submitted to the budget priorities committee. Mr. Johnson noted that the general fund support for
personnel would cease and that allocation will be used for other
internal student services needs. Also, almost 180 requests for
funding were received from various organizations of which all but
a few were honored.
President Smith remarked that the term of the request for
the student fee assessment was amended to a two-year period
rather than a three-year period. In his brief exposure to Michigan
Student Assembly this year, Mr. Smith felt that the organization
255


Meeting
Location
Changed
Investment
Portfolio


Michigan Student
Assembly,
Financial Report




256


APRIL MEETING, 1979


performed creditably and responsibly in meeting the needs of
the students. However, problems have arisen concerning the recent
election results. Because of the challenges to the election, results
cannot be certified until a review of the procedures takes place,
and in order to maintain the integrity of MSA and the continuity
of the  fee assessment and operation, the Executive Officers
recommend that the Regents authorize and direct:
1. That the Vice-President for Student Services review the
current MSA election results and the procedures utilized
and determine whether or not the results of the election
of April 19, 1979, should be certified.
2. That the Vice-President for Student Services determine
certification, or lack of certification, of said results pending
such review.
3. That the fee allocation request for MSA be administered
by the Vice-President for Student Services until he determines whether or not MSA is in a mode of operation capable
of managing its organizational and fiscal affairs.
Regent Baker recalled his earlier request to study the feasibility of incorporating legal aid services in the University Counsel's
office.
Investment  At this point the audience interrupted the meeting for approxiPolicies in
South Africa mately five minutes shouting for divestiture of investments from
South Africa.
Regent Baker stated that the purpose and progress of the
meeting had been interrupted, and, in his judgment, a breach
of the peace had just occurred. Referring to his comments before
the interruption, he asked if this study had been completed. If not,
other suggestions or recommendations could not be considered
until that alternative was examined.
There was further discussion with respect to providing a report
noting the kinds of problems with which the legal aid services deal,
the appropriateness of imposing a burden on students for contributions to causes, organizations, and functions that all students
do not necessarily support.
Regent Roach then stated that since there was a student
scheduled to speak to this issue during the public comments
session, it would be inappropriate to take action at this time. He
moved to table action until the Friday meeting. Regent Baker
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Family Housing  Mr. Robert Hughes and Mr. Norman Snustad, director and
Rates associate director of University Housing respectively, reviewed the
recommendation to continue the family housing rates for 1979-80




APRIL MEETING, 1979


257


at the current level and reviewed the resolution to increase the
contribution paid to the Ann Arbor Public Schools for services
to children living in the University Family Housing from $6.00
to $9.00 per apartment. After discussion, Regent Baker moved
to approve both the recommendation and the resolution. Regent
Roach seconded the motion and they were adopted. The resolution
follows.
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF             Family Housing
MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE FAMILY HOUSING                Resolution
CONTRIBUTION TO THE ANN ARBOR SCHOOL
BOARD TO BE INCREASED
WHEREAS, the Family Housing contribution to the Ann Arbor School
Board has not been increased since it was instituted in August of 1970; and
WHEREAS, during that time the number of school age children living in
Family Housing has increased from 380 to 700 during the current school
year; and
WHEREAS, the Family Housing Advisory Board recognizes the high
quality of education afforded children living in Family Housing;
Now, therefore, be it resolved that the current contribution of $6.00 per
unit per month be increased to $9.00 per unit per month, effective August 1,
1979.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the recommendation to in-     Student Health
crease the student health services fee to $23.00 per student per  IncreaFee
term for the fall and winter terms; $12.00 per student for the
spring term and $12.00 per student for the summer term. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Vice-President Shapiro reviewed the tuition range schedules  Tuition
for 1979-80 for all three campuses. He explained that these
schedules are submitted at this time to inform the students before
leaving campus for the summer the possible tuition levels for the
next academic year. A final recommendation will be presented
to the Regents when the final budget for 1979-80 has been
determined.
Chancellor Moran reviewed the background of the Recreation  Recreation
Facility at Flint and described the preliminary plans and sche- Faciity-UMmatic design of the project. He also presented to the Regents a
proposed capital budget.
After discusion, Regent Waters moved to approve the schematic design; to authorize proceeding with the working drawings;
and to approve the updated budget. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
I. MINUTES
Secretary Kennedy announced that corrections to the minutes
of April 19 and 20 were received from Regents Baker, Power and




258                 APRIL MEETING, 1979
Roach, and will be incorporated in the final minutes. A revised
copy will be brought to the Regents in May for approval.
II. REPORTS
Expendable    Vice-President Brinkerhoff filed a quarterly report of ExpendRestricted Fund
Budgets able Restricted Fund Budgets. It is summarized below:
Budgets in the amount of $31,571,307 have been initiated for accounts
and activities of the Expendable Restricted Fund since the meeting of
January 19, 1979. The following is a summary of the budgets initiated since
the last meeting, and for 1978-79 (nine months). Also, there is a review of
activities for January-March 1978 and for 1978-79 (nine months).
Jan.-Mar.   Jan.-Mar.
1978       1979
1. Instructional Programs.......................$ 3,491,134 $ 8,305,179
2. Research Grants and Contracts................ 13,504,820  21,842,550
3. Student Aid (Fellowships, Scholarships, Grants)  350,900  1,345.528
4.  Student Activities...........................
5. State and Public Services.....................  41,904     78.050
6. Administrative and Service Activities.............
7.  Annuitants.................................. 
TOTAL.................................$17,388,758  $31,571,307
1977-78     1978-79
(9 mos.)    (9 mos.)
1. Instructional Programs...................... $15,790,984 $20,341,365
2. Research Grants and Contracts............... 44,112,210  51,423,712
3. Student Aid (Fellowships, Scholarships, Grants)  4,409,325  3,781,039
4. Student Activities..............................          5,000
5. State and Public Services....................  110,097   1,528,674
6. Administrative and Service Activities.............
7. Annuitants........................................
TOTAL.................................$64,422,616  $77,079,790
Within each category, the source of funds for each budget is indicated
and a summary of these sources follows:
Jan.-Mar.   Jan.-Mar.
1978       1979
1. Federal Government.........................$15,031,677  $24,995,079
2. State and Local Government..................  356,722    1,058,181
3. Industry and Individuals....................  647,933     582,379
4. Foundations................................  1,195,096  1,478,354
5. Endowment Income.........................      157,330    886,358
6. Program Charges and Fees......................       2,570,956
TOTAL................................$17,388,758  $31,571,307
(9 mos.)    (9 mos.)
1977-78     1978-79
1. Federal Government.........................$53,273,882  $61,087,413
2. State and Local Government.................. 1,048,714   1,408,415
3. Industry and Individuals..................... 2,844,098  3,491,055
4. Foundations.................................  3,544,812  4,324,579
5. Endowment Income......................... 3,408,292      4,168,071
6. Program Charges and Fees...................   302,818    2,600,257
TOTAL.................................$64,422,616  $77,079,790




APRIL MEETING, 1979


259


Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on temporary investments, investment transactions, plant extension report, litigation and personnel-labor relations. He also filed
a quarterly report on non-competitive purchases over $1,000 from
single sources.
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts
for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on the Office
of University Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following Gifts
sources. They were acepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
the Various Industrial Sponsors-Colwell fund.............$  5,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York, for the
American Cancer Society funds..........................  22,134.00
American Diabetes Association, Detroit, for the American Diabetes Association-Floyd fund............................  10,000.00
Amoco Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, for the Amoco Foundation-Good Teaching Awards fund.....................    7,500.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn, for the Michgan Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds..................  6,541.65
Robert Arthur Estate, for the Unrestricted fund............... 40,095.12
Ruth Henney Brown Estate, to establish the Henney-Brown
Scholarship/Loan fund..................................  9,350.18
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit, matching gifts for the following funds:
Athletic Scholarships fund...............................  500.00
Business School fund..................................    400.00
Dearborn Campus Annual fund..........................     100.00
School of Dentistry fund................................  100.00
School of Education  fund...............................  200.00
College of Engineering fund.............................  810.00
Engineering Building Gifts fund.........................  200.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund.........  2,635.00
L. L. Laing Fellowship fund.............................   1,500.00
Law School fund.......................................  1,410.00
College of Literature, Science & the Arts fund..............  420.00
School of Natural Resources fund.......................    50.00
William A. Paton Accounting Scholarship fund............  250.00
President's  fund........................................  500.00
University Bands Assistance fund........................  100.00
University Musical Society fund.........................   25.00
Vital Margin fund......................................  1,000.00
WUOM    fund..........................................    120.00
Cross Company, Fraser, for the Various Industrial Sponsors-Colwell fund.............................................  5,000.00
Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, Inc., Washington,
D.C., for the Distilled Spirits Council of the United StatesKawanishi fund........................................   7,200.00




260


APRIL MEETING, 1979


Dow Chemical Company, Indianapolis, Indiana, for the Psychopharmacology Research fund......................  12,500.00
Dow Chemical Company, Midland Division, Midland, for the
following funds:
Dow Chemical Company-Britton Fellowship fund.........  2,500.00
Dow Chemical Fellowship in Chemical Engineering fund....  2,500.00
Dow Scholarship in Metallurgy fund.....................  500.00
Benson and Edith Ford Fund, Dearborn, for the President Gerald
R. Ford  Library  fund...................................  33,000.00
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn, matching gifts for the
following funds:
Aeronautical Egineering Special fund.....................  500.00
Athletic Scholarships fund..............................  2,050.00
Business School fund...................................  2,060.00
Class of  1938  Engineers  fund............................  50,00
Dearborn Campus Annual fund.........................     335.00
W illiam   R. Dixon  fund................................  25.00
College  of Engineering  fund.............................  100.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........  1,495.00
Fairlane Conference Center fund.........................  250.00
Fairlane  Rehabilitation  fund............................  25.00
General Library Special Book Purchase fund...............  500.00
Law   School fund.......................................  835.00
Law School-Law Library Building fund..................  5,000.00
M useum   of Art  fund...................................  475.00
School  of  M usic  fund..................................  100.00
D. M. Phelps  fund......................................  150.00
President's  fund......................................  371.06
Residential  College  fund................................  413.13
Ukrainian  Studies fund..................................  25.00
University  Musical Society  fund.........................  50.00
Unrestricted   fund......................................  50.00
Vital M argin  fund......................................  515.00
W UOM    fund..........................................  375.00
General Motors Corporationfi Staff Accounting Services, Detroit,
for the Macromolecular Research Center fund............  5,000.00
Frank B. Hall and Company of Michigan, Detroit, for the H.
Marvin Pollard Medical Research Facility fund...........  5,000.00
Sara E. Icks Estate, for the Diabetes Research fund............ 12,125.76
ICN Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Irvine, California, for the Epidemiological  Research  fund...................................  7,500.00
Josephine Nevins Keal Estate, for the Alumni Association fund  50,000.00
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek, for the Kellogg Foundation-Remington  fund...................................  53,475.00
Mary M. Ketchum Estate, for the E. Mary Ketchum Memorial
fund..................................................  128,034.70
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Rochester, for the Forney W.
Clement Memorial fund.......................      15,000.00
Henri Kummerman, Geneva, Switzerland, for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Scholarship and Discretionary
fund..................................................  8,350.00
Michigan Gas Association, Detroit, for the Michigan Gas Association  Fellowship  fund..................................  10,000.00
Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association of the United States,
Inc., Detroit, for the Highway Safety Research Institute fund 314,750.00
Mrs. Charles Stewart Mott, Flint, for the C. S. Mott Hospital-Equipment fund...................................  30,000.00




APRIL MEETING, 1979


261


National Fund for Minority Engineering Students, New York,
New York, for the National Fund for Minority Engineering
Students fund..........................................  6,625.00
National Institute for Burn Medicine, Ann Arbor, for the Burn
Center Expansion fund..................................  10,161.93
Mary M. Park Estate, for the Colin S. and Mary M. Park Scholarship fund............................................ 185,000.00
Peninsular Diesel, Inc., Dearborn, for the Engineering Capital
Campaign-Undesignated fund............................  5,000.00
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York, for the Rockefeller
Foundation-Bornstein fund.............................  8,361.08
Sterling Drug, Inc., New York, New York, for the Maurice H.
Seevers Memorial fund.................................  5,000.00
Supreme Council, 33rd Degree, A.A.S.R. Benevolent Foundation,
Lexington, Massachusetts, for the Scottish Rite Schizophrenia
Research-Gnegy fund...................................  5,750.00
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor, for
the Interdisciplinary Program in the Prevention of Child
Abuse and Neglect fund.................................  50,000.00
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Inc.,
New York, New York, for the United Cerebral Palsy funds 24,068.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, for the following funds:
Business School fund....................................  25.00
Library Science 50th Anniversary fund...................  250.00
Midwest Student Medical Research Forum................  300.00
College of Pharmacy  fund...............................  25.00
Pharmacy  Special fund..................................  400.00
President Gerald R. Ford Library fund...................  5,000.00
Upjohn Company-Biostatistics fund......................  4,000.00
Vital M argin  fund......................................  250.00
W UOM    fund...........................................  25.00
Edith Grace Venton Estate, for the University of Michigan Cancer
Research  Institute  fund.................................  8,869.25
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey, for the
following funds:
School of Art  fund.....................................  300.00
Biological Station Development fund.....................  25.00
Parke-Davis Company-Castor fund.....................     600.00
College  of Pharmacy  fund..............................  200.00
Vital  M argin  fund.....................................  100.00
Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis-Brewer fund...............  7,427.00
W UOM    fund..........................................  95.00
Washtenaw Association of Life Underwriters, Ypsilanti, for the
C. S. Mott Hospital-Equipment fund....................  9,300.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Alro Steel Corporation, Jackson. Carpenter Technology Corporation, common stock; for Athletic Scholarships fund........ 11,450.00
Anonymous Donor. Tualatin Development Company, Inc., capital
stock, for the Law School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted
fund..................................................  126,910.00
George N. Carleton, Grosse Pointe Farms. Scott Paper Company,
common stock, for the Carleton-McCarron Forest Scholarship
fund..................................................  34,687.50
Mr. & Mrs. M. W. Catto, Oscoda. United Michigan Corporation,
common stock, for Athletic Scholarships fund............  9,275.00
Graham H. Conger, Ann Arbor. Sumitono Marine and Fire Insurance Company, common stock, for the Graham H. Conger
Fund, to participate in The University of Michigan Donor
Pooled  Income  fund....................................  7,822.50




262


APRIL MEETING, 1979


Thomas T. Oyler, Media, Pennsylvania. American Stores Company, comon stock, for the Thomas T. Oyler Fund, to participate in The University of Michigan Donor Pooled Income
fund..................................................  14,601.94
Mr. & Mrs. Adrian W. Schmidhauser, Karachi, Pakistan. British
Petroleum Limited, common stock, for the President's fund  5,475.00
Mr. & Mrs. Russell S. Strickland, Pinehurst, North Carolina.
Standard Oil Company (Indiana), common stock, and cash
gift of $265.62, divided as follows:
Alumni Center fund....................................   5,000.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........  5,000.00
Frederic K. Wykes, Alto. Hanes Corporation, common stock, for
the Michigan Historical Collections Special Support fund  5,912.59
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Dr. Valdis V. Liepa, Ann Arbor. One Hewlett Packard, Klystron
power supply, for the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering
Mrs. Morgery E. Motter, Southfield. Set of 50 hand-bound copies
of The National Geographic, 1929-1950, for the Fair Lane
Conference Center, The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus
Prof. Chia-Shun Yih, Ann Arbor. Nineteen copies of a book
entitled: Fluid Mechanics, by Chia-Shun Yih, for the Department of Applied Mechanics and Engineering Science
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
Appointments    The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Albert A. Blum, Professor of Industrial Relations, with tenure, UM-Flint,
July 1, 1979
Sally E. Ruybal, Ph.D., R.N., Associate Professor of Nursing, without tenure,
September 1, 1979, for three years
Thomas J. Schnitzer, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without
tenure, May 1, 1979
Allan Stillwagon, M.A., Assistant Dean and Admissions Officer of the Law
School, April 1, 1979
The Regents approved the appointment of Dr. Richard F.
deLeon as Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure, and
Associate Dean for Clinical Sciences, twenty percent effort, and
Director, Pharmacy Service, University Hospital, eighty percent
effort, effective July 23, 1979.
Promotions, etc. CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Wendel W. Heers, Professor of Art, appointed Associate Dean of the School
of Art, July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1981
Paul George Rasmussen, Associate Professor of Chemistry, reappointed
Associate Dean for Research and Facilities of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1981




APRIL MEETING, 1979


263


The Regents approved the appointment of Professor Edward            E.. Gramlich
Appointed
M. Gramlich as Director of the Institute for Public Policy Studies,    Director IPPS
for three years, effective July 1, 1979.
The Regents approved the appointment of Professor Bernard           B. W. Klein
Appointed UM-D
W. Klein as Acting Chancellor, University of Michigan-Dear-            Acting Chancellor
born, effective July 1, 1979.
The Regents approved the title Lecturer Emeritus to Robert          Rete Chnoate
A. Choate and adopted the following memoir:                            Memoir
On May 11, 1979 ROBERT A. CHOATE will conclude twenty years of
devoted service as a Lecturer in the Law School.
Mr. Choate was born and has spent his life in Michigan. After receiving
B.S.E. and LL.B. degrees from The University of Michigan, he commenced
the practice of law with the firm now known as Barnes, Kisselle, Raisch &
Choate, specializing in patent and trademark law.
Since 1960, Mr. Choate has been a Lecturer in the Law School, teaching
a highly regarded course in patent law. His intimate knowledge of the field,
his conscientious preparation and skilled presentation of a demanding subject, and his genuine concern for students have won for him the respect
and affection of generations of law student. Many of those students have
followed him into a career in patent law, and a number have been led by
his example to teach patent law at other institutions.
In addition to maintaining an active practice and teaching at the Law
School, Mr. Choate has found time to make important professional contributions. He has delivered lectures before professional audiences; authored
articles in professional publications, including the Michigan Law Review
and the Journal of the Patent Office Society; and edited a widely-adopted
casebook on Patent Law. During 1963-64, he served as President of the
Michigan Patent Law Association, and he has been an active member of
the Detroit Bar Association, the State Bar of Michigan, and the American
Patent Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished practitioner and teacher for
his dedicated service to the University by naming him Lecturer Emeritus
of Patent Law.
The Regents approved the applications for membership to the         Medical Staff
medical staff of University Hospital.                                  Applions
The following committee appointments were approved:                 Committee
Appointments
William L. Clements Library, Committee of Management
Mr. Robert P. Briggs, for a term beginning immediately and to end June 30,
1983, vice Mr. Bruce Catton, deceased
College of Pharmacy, Executive Committee
Professor Gordon L. Flynn, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Professor William I. Higuchi, term expired
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
NEW   APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                      Appointments
Effective on dates indicated
N. Lawrence Edwards, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, December 1,
1978




264


APRIL MEETING, 1979


Richard A. Kulka, Ph.D., Lecturer in Psychology, September 1, 1978
Stanley John Nelson, D.D.S., Clinical Instructor in Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Anthony J. Penico, Ph.D., Visiting Professor of Mathematics, UM-Flint,
January 1, 1979
Frank Eric Pink, D.D.S., Clinical Instructor in Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Promotions, etc. CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Kenneth R. Eaton, Jr., from Adjunct Lecturer to Adjunct Assistant Professor
of Industrial and Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1979
Robert E. Keller, Lecturer in Natural Sciences, also appointed Lecturer in
Engineering Administration, UM-Dearborn, January 1, 1979
Resignations    TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective on dates indicated
George W. Dinolt, Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, UMDearborn, February 19, 1979
Retirement
Retirement Henry K. Townes, Adjunct Professor of Natural Resources, December 31,
1978
Leaves of Absence  TWO off-campus assignments, one extended sick leave and one
extension of leave of absence without salary were reported to the
Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
No retirement memoirs were submitted to the Regents this
month.
VII. DEATHS
No deaths were reported to the Regents this month.
VIII. DEGREES
Degree Lists   On the recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Amended Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, December 1978
Education
add:
Madonna Marie Bagdonas, B.S., Eastern Michigan University
Lawrence Gamby, A.B., Central Connecticut State College
John Toivo Kattelus, B.S., Michigan State University
delete:
Ruth Ann Pinter, B.S., Eastern Michigan University
Judith Ann Sagath, B.S. (Occ. Ther.), State University of New York
at Buffalo




APRIL MEETING, 1979


265


Master of Science, December 1978
Education
add:
Ruth Ann Pinter, B.S., Eastern Michigan University
Judith Ann Sagath, B.S. (Occ. Ther.), State University of New York
at Buffalo
Remote Sensing
delete:
Robert Dobbs Dillman, B.A., University of Kansas
Master of Science, December 1977
Remote Sensing
add:
Robert Dobbs Dillman, B.A., University of Kansas
Master of Science, August 1977
Atmospheric Science
add:
Swo-Lin David Chai, B.S., National Taiwan University, Republic of
China
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Master of Science in Engineering, December 1978
Electrical Engineering
delete:
John David Mabry, B.S., Michigan State University
Master of Science in Engineering, August 1978
Electrical Engineering
add:
John David Mabry, B.S., Michigan State University
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering),
December 1978
delete:
Richard Burton Patterson
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 1978
add:
Matthew Paul Cullen
Daniel Fulton Fantore, with Distinction
James Robert Shefferly, with Distinction
correct to show:
Richard Andrew Tumanis, with Distinction; Honors in English
Sheryl Rene Young, with Distinction; Honors in Psychology
Robert John Ziola, with High Distinction




266


APRIL MEETING, 1979


Bachelor of Science, December 1978
add:
James Michael St. Aubin
Bachelor in General Studies, December 1978
add:
James Peter Nellis
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Bachelor of Arts, December 1978
correct to show:
Margret Sue Gilson, with Distinction
Sonia Mayer, with High Distinction
Gayle Patricia Thomas, with Distinction
Bachelor of Arts, September 1978
add:
Dorothy Shirley Smoot
Bachelor in General Studies, December 1978
add:
Linda Cecilia Scheuerman, with High Distinction
delete:
Diane Lynn Thomas
Bachelor of Science, December 1978
add:
Walter Maruszczak
Division of Eduatcion
Bachelor of Arts, December 1978
correct to show:
Schehrezad Ann Chapman, with Distinction
Division of Interdisciplinary Studies
Bachelor of Science, December 1978
add:
Stephen Lee Maier
School of Management
Bachelor of Science in Administration, December 1978
correct to show:
Robert Daniel Giandiletti, with High Distinction
delete:
Norma Rose Millen
Robert Joseph Silverman




APRIL MEETING, 1979


267


Bachelor of Science in Administration, September 1978
add:
Klaus Harry Mau
delete:
Lori A. Lico Burns
Bachelor of Business Administration, 1976
add:
Leopold Edwin Boccaccio
The Regents approved the list of doctoral degree candidates
as recommended by the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, for the April, 1979 Commencement exercises.
The Regents approved the recommendation of the Committee
on Honorary Degrees for the conferring of an honorary degree at
the May, 1979 Commencement exercises at The University of
Michigan-Flint.


Doctoral Degree
List Confirmed
Honorary Degree,
UM-Flint,
Approved


IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Regent Roach moved to authorize the University to convey
by warranty deed with a title policy to the City of Detroit its
undivided one-quarter interest in the Hofmann Building, 2539-51
Woodward Avenue, after City Council has approved donation.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Brown moved to authorize the University to sell
40 acres of land in Franklin Township, Clare County, from the
William H. McClure estate to Mr. and Mrs. Emil J. Heck for the
surface rights, subject to the reservation of the mineral rights.
Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents accepted a gift of a sculpture from Mr. A. Alfred
Taubman which will be installed near the southeast entrance of
A. Alfred Taubman Medical Library.
Regent Roach moved to approve the following resolution as a
precondition of distribution of a bequest from the estate of Marie
Louise Hill. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
WHEREAS, Marie Louise Hill, a resident of Crystal Lake, Illinois, departed
this life on January 23, 1978, leaving a last will and testament which has
been duly admitted to probate in McHenry County, Illinois, and which
contains provisions for a bequest as follows:
ARTICLE THIRD
I hereby give and bequeath to the UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, the sum
of Five Thousand and no/100 ($5,000.00) Dollars to be used for the
purpose of assisting needy students in memory of my deceased husband,
Harry Hill.


Real Property
Sculpture, gift of
A. A. Taubman
M. L. Hill,
Estate,
Resolution




268


APRIL MEETING, 1979


Now THEREFORE, be it resolved that the said bequest be and the same
is hereby accepted by the said University of Michigan for the uses and
purposes set forth and
Be it further resolved that J. B. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President and Chief
Financial Officer of said University of Michgian be and is hereby authorized to accept payment on behalf of said corporation of said bequest,
and to execute and deliver to The Northern Trust Company as Executor of
the Last Will and Testament of the said Marie Louise Hill, deceased, the
receipt of the said corporation in satisfaction thereof.
I, Richard L. Kennedy, Secretary of the Regents of the University, a
corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the
State of Michigan, do hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a true
and correct and complete copy of a resolution passed at the meeting of the
Board of Regents of said corporation on the day...... of April, A.D., 1979
and as the same appears on the records of said corporation,
I further certify that I am the Secretary of said corporation and custodian of its corporate records and its corporate seal.
IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the
seal of said corporation this...... day of April, A.D. 1979...  - -...         -. -..e ~..........
Richard L. Kennedy
Public Comments   The Regents then heard comments from Sheila Mayberry and
Blaise Supler concerning discrimination against the women's track
team; Joshua Banner spoke on voluntary vs. mandatory MSA
funding; Richard Pace on the Open Meetings Act; and Greg Dow,
Pat Anderson, Donald Alexander, Professor Alan Wald, Professor
Daniel Fusfeld, Professor Thomas Weiskopf, Professor William
Derman and Professor Joel Samoff with respect to South African
investments. At the conclusion of this session the Regents returned
to the Regents' room to continue the meeting.
Non-Competitive   Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request to eliminate
Purchases Report
Purchases Rport the listing of "B" items in the quarterly report on non-competitive
purchases. These items consist of the standardization or matching
material requirement of certain purchases.
Regent Roach moved to eliminate part "B" from the quarterly
report, with the exception of professional services which can be
included in the first part of the report. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Membership    Regent Nederlander moved to approve membership in the
Approved Hospital Purchasing Service for University Hospital. Regent
Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Renovations   Regent Roach moved to approve the following projects: Chemistry Building Laboratory renovations; East Engineering classroom renovation; E. H. Kraus/Dana Building renovations;




APRIL MEETING, 1979


269


Northwood II and III gas line replacement; Residence Halls
emergency lighting phase I; and improvements to Fuller recreation
field. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the recommendation to  University
Terrace
appoint an architect to analyze and to determine whether it Apartments
would be economical to rehabilitate University Terrace apartments
to accommodate single student housing rather than married
student housing.
Regent Baker commented that there is underway at the
present time an overall site study of the hospital area. The site
study involves old St. Joseph Mercy Hospital, traffic approaches
and the impact on the city. Until that study has been completed,
the University ought not do anything that might be affected
by the results of that study.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that if the site study
reveals a need for this land for hospital purposes in the near
term then the University would not consider proceeding with the
project.
The Regents concurred with Regent Baker that it would be
unwise to appoint an architect at this time and the item was
deferred until the site plan studies for the hospital area are
completed.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff then reviewed the performance of Endowment
the University's endowment fund which had been stated inac- Fund
curately in a Detroit newspaper. He said the fundamental issue
is how well the University's investment program is doing in terms
of generating spendable income while at the same time keeping
the principle values abreast of inflation. It has been the practice
of the University to invest in blue chip stocks which have not
fared so well from a market standpoint, but which have done very
well in terms of producing increased spendable income. On a tenyear basis the University's total return has been better than twothirds of those endowment funds that have been evaluated. The
University's investment advisors have been instructed to emphasize
income while maintaining a portfolio of well managed companies
in which the principle value can improve over the long term.
The Regents accepted the report and urged that care be taken
to protect the capital that has been contributed to the University.
Chancellor Moran reviewed an earlier agreement with the  Conveyance of
Land Agreement,
City of Flint for the conveyance of land which called for the City  UM-Flint
to convey clear title to the University for the 42-acre riverfront
campus site and to do associate demolition and site preparation
work by the end of 1974.
By 1978 all but two parking facilities had been conveyed to




270


APRIL MEETING, 1979


the University. The City is now willing to convey the remaining
properties if the University would agree to lease back to the City
part of the parking facilities, at no cost, until March 1, 1993.
Regent Baker suggested that the University's intention to use
the facilities for its own purposes after March of 1993 be included
in the agreement.
Regent Brown concurred and moved to authorize UM-Flint
to sign the following supplemental City/University agreement for
conveyance of land and incorporate the University's intention for
uses in 1993. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
CITY/UNIVERSITY SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT
FOR CONVEYANCE OF LAND
WHEREAS, on the sixth day of November, 1973, the City of Flint, a
public body corporate and politic of the State of Michigan (hereinafter
called "City") having its office at 1101 S. Saginaw Street in the City of Flint,
State of Michigan, and the Regents of The University of Michigan, a public
body corporate and politic of the State of Michigan (hereinafter called
"University") having its office at 503 Thompson Street, City of Ann Arbor,
State of Michigan, entered into an Agreement (hereinafter called "Agreement") for the acquisition and conveyance of land to the University and
the redevelopment of same by the University, said land being located in the
City of Flint, Genesee County, Michigan, and
WHEREAS, as of the date hereof, certain items set forth in said Agreement remain to be performed by said parties, and
WHEREAS, the City desires to defease certain outstanding financial
obligations the existence of which prevents unrestricted use of certain lands
by the University until the year 1993, and
WHEREAS, in connection with such defeasance by the City, the University
agrees to lease certain parcels of real property back to the City for use as
public parking lots until the year 1993, and
WHEREAS, both parties are desirous of concluding their performance of
their respective obligations under said Agreement,
Now, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:
1. Concurrently with the execution of this Supplemental Agreement,
the City has executed and delivered to the University deeds conveying
marketable fee title to the premises described below in this paragraph 1,
receipt of which is acknowledged by the University:
DCD block 22, parcel 2
DCD block 23, parcel 1, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9
DCD block 22, parcel 13, including all of East Boulevard Drive from
the east line of Harrison Street to the eastern boundary of the
campus site as described in the 1973 Agreement and including the
land between said Drive and the northern boundary of the campus
site as defined in the 1973 Agreement
The south Y2 of Kearsley Street between Harrison and the east line of
Clifford Street
The west 2 of Clifford Street between First and Kearsley




APRIL MEETING, 1979


271


2. The City further agrees to pay forthwith to the University the sum
of $142,559.89 in full satisfaction of any and all claims which the University
may have against the City for any and all obligations which the City has
under the Agreement, including but not limited to, those obligations, such
as site preparation, which the University has undertaken for the City. Said
amount is a net amount which has taken into account any credits to which
the Ctiy may be entitled for any obligations which the City has performed
for the University.
3. The City further agrees to pay the University the additional sum of
$16,500.00* in full satisfaction of the City's obligation under the Agreement
to cause the demolition of structures and perform the site preparation on the
property known as the Kings Daughters Home and further described in the
Agreement as:
DCD block 36, parcel 2
If the structure on said property is not demolished by December 31, 1985,
the University will forthwith return said additional sum of $16,500.00* to
the City.
4. The City further agrees to pay the University the additional sum of
$7,800.00* in full satisfaction of the City's obligation under the Agreement
to cause the demolition of structures and perform the site preparation on
the property known at the Haloburger Restaurant and further described
in the Agreement as:
DCD block 23, parcel 2
The University agrees to demolish the structure on said property by September 30, 1979.
5. The City further agrees to pay the University the additional sum of
$24,000.00* in full satisfaction of the City's obligation under the Agreement
to cause the demolition of structures and perform the site preparation on the
property known as the Brooks-Penfield Apartments and further described in
the Agreement as:
DCD block 22, parcel 9
If the structures on said property are not demolished by December 31, 1985,
the University will forthwith return said additional sum of $24,000.00* to
the City.
6. The City further agrees to pay the University the additional sum of
$37,800.00* in return for the University releasing the City from any and all
obligations which the City has under the Agreement for the site preparation
of the area commonly known as Fast Boulevard Drive, including the property
between said Drive and the Flint River from Harrison Street to the eastern
boundary of the campus site, described in the Agreement as follows:
DCD block 22, parcel 13
The University intends to close and remove, in accordance with its campus
master plan, said East Boulevard Drive from the Stevens Street Bridge to
the eastern boundary of the University campus property, but agrees not to
do so before June 30, 1980. The University further agrees that after June 30,
1980, it will consult with the City prior to closing or removing said East
Boulevard Drive, and if the City has objections thereto, the University will
not proceed to close or remove said East Boulevard Drive until the City's
objections have been presented to the University's Board of Regents and
the City given an opportunity to be heard by said Board of Regents.
*Amount subject to verification by the University




272


APRIL MEETING, 1979


If any part of said East Boulevard Drives is not removed by the University
by December 31, 1983, then the University will forthwith return the unexpended portion of the $37,800.00* paid to the University for said removal
pursuant to this paragraph 6.
7. The University agrees to lease to the Flint Board of Education the
space in the parking structure at Kearsley and Harrison Streets, presently
used as a library, until such time as the library is relocated, but in any event
not later than December 31, 1980, on terms no less favorable than those
contained in the present lease agreement between the Board of Education and
the City, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit A, provided that the University, at its discretion, and under extraordinary circumstances, may grant an
extension of said lease term.
8. For the sole purpose of providing surface parking in support of the
Riverfront Center project, as described in the UDAG grant application dated
October 27, 1978 or an equivalent project, the University agrees to lease to
the City, at no cost, until March 1, 1993 those parcels of land shown on
the attached Exhibit B and described as follows:
Parcel #1: DCD block 23, parcels 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and that part of
parcel 9 as described in the attached Exhibit B-1.
Parcel #2: DCD block 22, parcel 2, 14 and that part of parcel 1 as
described in the attached Exhibit B-2.
Parcel #3: That portion of DCD block 23, parcel 9 as described in the
attached Exhibit B-3.
If the project or equivalent project described above is not undertaken in a
timely manner by the City or is abandoned by the City, the obligations of
the University under this paragraph 8 shall forthwith terminate and be null
and void.
9. The City agrees that by December 31, 1980, it will construct a lighted
surface parking lot on Parcel #1 of the attached Exhibit B, with a landscaped buffer of approximately twenty (20) feet along Harrison, First and
Clifford Streets.
10. The City further agrees that by December 31, 1980, it will demolish
the old Harrison Street parking structure, remove all foundation work including edge walls, and construct a lighted surface parking lot on Parcel #2
of the attached Exhibit B, with a landscaped buffer along Harrison Street
of approximately twenty (20) feet and along the north and south borders
of approximately ten (10) feet, and relocate the access road to the University
service yard to the north of said parking lot.
11. The City and University agree that the City will, at its expense, make
the modifications within the Kearsley Street parking structure as described
in the letter from Richard C. Rich to Robert D. Wilson dated April 5, 1979
and attached as Exhibit C, in order to permit the eavalution of said structure's operational characteristics with and without the attached spiral exit
ramp during the Fall, 1979 semester by the University. The University agrees
to determine by January 7, 1980 whether or not said spiral ramp can be
removed. If the University determines it can be removed without reducing
the efficiency of the structure, the University will lease said ramp side
identified as Parcel #3 on attached Exhibit B, to the City on the same terms
set forth in paragraph 8 above, and permit the City to remove the spiral
ramp. The City will, within twelve (12) months of said removal, construct
a lighted surface parking lot on said site, with a landscaped buffer of approximately twenty (20) feet along Clifford Street, and increase the landscaped
*Amount subject to verification by the University




APRIL MEETING, 1979


273


buffer along Harrison Street to approximately twice the size of otherwise
specified for Parcel #1 in paragraph 9 above.
12. The City and the University agree that all constructed elements and
landscaping on Parcel #1, 2 and 3 referred to above will be performed
pursuant to site development plans mutually agreed upon.
13. Until March 1, 1993, the City agrees to provide one hundred (100)
parking spaces to the University in exchange for parking places to be provided
by the University to the City on University land north of the existing
Harrison Street parking structure and south of the existing Kearsley Street
parking structure and further described as:
DCD block 23, parcel 2, 3 and 4
DCD block 22, parcel 14 and that portion of parcel #1 as described
in the attached Exhibit B-2
The City further agrees to provide these spaces within reasonable proximity
to the University campus at a mutually agreeable location. If no other
location is mutually agreeable, the one hundred (100) spaces will be provided
at the Farmers Market on days when the Market is closed, provided that the
Market's present schedule of closed days is not appreciably changed.
14. The City agrees to permit University use of the City constructed
surface parking lots described in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 above at such times
as the parking lots are not required by the manager of the City's parking
system for the system's normal operation.
15. So long as the City has the duty enforceable against it under Federal
or State law to clean out the sedimentation basin located in the Flint River
between the existing Hamilton Dam and existing Stevens Street Bridge, the
University agrees to grant the City all reasonable access to University property for purposes of cleaning out said basin, provided that the City shall
first satisfy the University that it has exhausted all other means of cleaning
said basin from other locations. Through December 31, 1983, while different
methods for removing sedimentation are being tested, the University will
permit such reasonable access within twenty five (25) feet of the riverbank
for truck and equipment service for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days
per year. Beyond 1983, the means of access will be as mutually agreed upon.
At no time shall the City be charged by the University for the use of University property for sedimentation removal.
16. The University agrees to permit public access to the Hamilton Dam
and to University riverbank property upstream from the existing Stevens
Street Bridge for fishing (but not for boat access) as long as such public
access does not unreasonably interfere with the University's use of its
property and so long as the City provides public access to the Hamilton
Dam on the north side of the river and to riverbank property upstream
from the existing Stevens Street Bridge now owned or controlled by the City,
or acquired by the City in the future, in the same manner, so as not to concentrate fishing on the property of either party.
17. So long as the City maintains a hikeway/bikeway along the Flint
River, the University agrees to permit the City to keep and maintain that
portion of the hikeway/bikeway which crosses University property on said
property, provided however, that no alterations to the hikeway/bikeway
shall be made by the City without the prior approval of the University, and
further provided that the University may, at its own expense, relocate said
hikeway/bikeway on its property so long as the continuous path of said
hikeway/bikeway is not interrupted.
18. The University agrees to allow the City reasonable access for purposes of maintaining its water and sewer utilities on University property,




274                 APRIL MEETING, 1979
provided that said access rights shall be limited to a strip of land along
the said water and sewer lines and within seven and one-half (7/2) feet
of either side of the center of said water and sewer lines.
19. This supplemental agreement shall not be construed as amending
the Agreement of November 6, 1973, or diminishing the rights thereby
created, but is intended and understood to be an addition to and statement
of the means by which the purposes of said Agreement will be finally
completed and is intended to be evidence of what both parties understand
to be the remaining obligation toward finally completing performance
under said Agreement.
20. The University's obligations as expressed in this Supplemental Agreement shall be unenforceable unless and until the conditions expressed in
paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 thereof have been met by the City.
In WITNESS WHEREOF, the City and the University have caused this Supplemental Agreement to be duly executed on the...... day of......,1979.
WITNESSED BY:..............................   CITY  OF  FLINT
By:................................
James W. Rutheford
Mayor, City of Flint
By:................................
Gerald R. Brown
Clerk, City of Flint
WITNESSED BY:..............................   REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN
By:................................
William E. Moran, Chancellor
The University of Michigan-Flint
The meeting was recessed.




APRIL MEETING, 1979


275


FRIDAY, APRIL 20, 1979
The Regents reconvened at 9:00 A.M. in the Michigan Union
Ballroom.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Roach, Power and Waters. Chancellors Goodall
and Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro, and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present.
President Smith commented that the next item on the agenda
was the Michigan Student Assembly fee assessment. The recommendation would continue the assessment of $2.92 per student
for a period of two years with an option to return next year should
there be a requirement for an increase. The supplemental item concerning the administration of the MSA fee was designed to provide
University responsibilty for the fee allocation pending a resolution
of the validity and effect of the election process that took place
this spring.
Regent Nederlander moved to adopt the fee assessment as
recommended.
Regent Roach said that since there was a problem of not
having a legally constituted student government at the moment,
the resolution recommended by the Executive Officers and presented to the Regents at Thursday's meeting should be acted upon
first so there would be a trustee to receive any fees levied. He then
moved to approve the resolution. Regent Nederlander seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Regent Roach then noted that there was the question of the
proper administration of student legal aid services. A report had
been requested to determine whether the program should be administered under an independent board, the auspices of MSA, the
Office for Student Services, or the University General Counsel's
office. He asked if it would be more appropriate to continue funding the existing organization and make the final determination as
to the ultimate disposition of those funds when the report has
been received and acted upon.
Regent Baker remarked that the University should not allow
the development of an independent organization which would be
beyond the control of the University administration. The University should carefully examine the proposed concept of a separate
legal aid organization with a separate Board of Directors which
could bring suit in many ways against the University. He said
that if legal services to students was a proper function of a
university community then establishing this organiaztion under
the University's General Counsel should be considered.


Michigan Student
Assembly Fee
Assessment




276


APRIL MEETING, 1979


In response to Regent Nederlander's concern of accountability
each year, President Smith said that the suggestion of a two-year
period was to assure some position security in the legal aid office
which at present is rather tenuous.
As an opponent of mandatory fees levied upon students except
for those which are considered necessary functions, such as health
services, Regent Baker questioned the validity of legal aid services
meeting this criteria.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the Michigan Student
Assembly fee assessment for a one-year period. Regent Brown
seconded the motion.
Vice-President Johnson responded to Regent Power's question
of job security by commenting that granting the assessment to
continue for a two-year period would certainly provide a more
secure position for the professional staff, and would also provide
more continuity for their programs.
Regent Roach then moved to amend the original motion to
establish an assessment of $1.89 for legal aid services and the
course evaluation project for a two-year period, and the remainder
of the assessment ($1.03) to MSA for a one-year period. Regent
Power seconded the motion.
Regent Baker listed several organizations which were funded
by MSA during the past year. He commented that university
communities have the freedom to support any point of view, but
this is done on a voluntary basis. The funds contributed by all
students are sometimes allocated to organizations that are not
supported by every student. No one in this community should be
forced to finance a view they do not support. That part of the
assessment which supports contributions to various student organizations should be on a voluntary basis.
Regent Nederlander indicated that if the amendment to divide
the funds is approved, it would be the first time the Regents have
dictated to MSA how their funds should be allocated. He said
that he would vote against the amendment because he did not feel
it was in the best interest of the University.
Regent Roach said he was persuaded by Regent Nederlander
and would vote against his own amendment. President Smith
then called for the vote on the amendment for the division of funding. The motion failed with all Regents voting against it.
Regent Roach moved to amend the motion to approve a $2.92
student fee assessment for a one-year period provided the Executive Officers present a report to the Regents before or at the July
Regents' meeting recommending the proper administration for the
legal aid services program, and that in the interim, student legal




APRIL MEETING, 1979


277


aid services be funded at its current rate. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion.
Regent Baker moved to further amend the motion providing
for that portion of the fees allocated to MSA for student groups
be made voluntary. Regent Laro seconded the motion.
President Smith called for the vote on Regent Baker's amendment. The motion failed with Regents Brown, Dunn, Nederlander,
Power, Roach and Waters voting no.
President Smith then called for the vote on Regent Nederlander's motion which would include Regent Roach's amendment.
The motion was adopted with Regent Baker voting no.
Dr. Douglas Sarbach and Mr. Joseph Diederich, from the  Hospital
Replacement
Office of Hospital Planing, Research and Development, reviewed  Project
two basic forms of construction management which would be
applicable to the hospital replacement project; a lump sum contract and a multiple prime contract. Due to risks, costs, and
quality of the project it is likely that some combination of the two
methods would be the best approach. They emphasized that the
opportunity for cost savings would be in the pre-design phase.
It was suggested that whatever method of construction was used
an engineering viewpoint during this phase would be most helpful
in determining the best course of action and the best method to use.
President Smith commented that although a recommendation
for action had not been included in the agenda, the administration
would like to seek professional advice as to the best procedure,
and would like to have the Regents' comments.
Regent Baker emphasized the need for a well conceived design
before methods of construction are contemplated. He said the
University should seek the advice of the best talent available to
recommend the best procedure for the design/build concept.
Regent Laro commented that any method other than the lump
sum method involves the risk of exceeding the budget. He had
known instances where the lump sum method was preferable and
he suggested careful consideration for this method.
Regent Roach stated that utilization of a guaranteed maximum
price would provide the same protection as a lump sum price, but
would allow for fast tracking. He said he was comfortable with
the concept of considering the fast track method as long as a
guaranteed maximum price was set.
Regent Baker then moved to authorize the Hospital Executive
Board to search and retain the most qualified consultant available
to determine among all possible alternatives, the best contract
letting method with the specific condition that the consultant not




278


APRIL MEETING, 1979


be a candidate as the contractor. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Hospital Budget  Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that the Hospital budget
for 1979-80 was presented to the Regents at this time because it
is subject to an audit by the appropriate agencies to determine
if the cost control elements are appropriately introduced into the
budget.
Dr. Jeptha Dalston, Director of University Hospital, reviewed
the budget and said the emphasis for the coming year would be
on improvement in support services, continuity of budgeting approach, increases in patient care, and equipment replacement. The
Hospital has worked closely with the medical staff, the Medical
School, the other schools of the health professions and the University officers in the development of this proposal.
Mr. Edward Schwartz, Sr. Associate Director and Hospital
Financial Officer, reviewed the details of the proposed budget. He
said it was anticipated that 32 licensed beds, which were closed
most of this last year because of construction, would be reactivated.
An occupancy level of 83.8 percent is forecast and will be monitored carefully in conjunction with the activation of licensed beds.
Medical Geriatric  Regent Power inquired about her request for a presentation
from the Medical School and the University Hospital for a Medical
geriatric program. She urged that adequate provision be made for
this program in this budget in order to ensure the University's
leadership in this field.
In response to Regent Baker's concern regarding the escalating
room costs at the Hospital, Dr. Dalston commented that the
Hospital has a strong cost containment policy and the rates have
not been excessive comparatively.
Regent Dunn then moved to approve the Hospital's 1979-80
revenue and expense budgets, incorporating the Hospital commitments, supportive services and programs to activate licensed beds,
and to approve the daily service charge rate increase of $25.00.
Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
South African  President Smith introduced the item on the agenda concerning
Investments the status of University stock holdings in Black and Decker and
G. D. Searle companies. He noted that representatives from the
Washtenaw County Coalition Against Apartheid had been invited
to participate in the discussion. He observed that the item concerning minority student recruitment and retention would follow
this item.
The Coalition representatives asked that the Regents proceed
to vote on the issue of Black and Decker and G. D. Searle and
that their presentation would follow.




APRIL MEETING, 1979


279


President Smith commented that such action would not be
appropriate since the Regents vote on issues after they hear discussion, not before it.
A student proceeded to comment for the Coalition. She noted
that even if the Regents voted to divest University interests in
Black and Decker and G. D. Searle, the Coalition would continue
to press for total divestment. She continued that the Regents'
policy of March 1978 on divestment was not responsive to the
overwhelming support for total divestment. She expressed the view
that the Regents were not even effectively implementing their own
policy.
President Smith commented that the issue is not simply one
of total divestment. Many responsible leaders in this country have
advocated a policy similar to this University's. Large numbers
of distinguished universities have adopted similar policies or have
chosen not to become involved in the issue at all.
The issue for us is what action by what parties is most likely
to produce a change in the political and social institutions of
South Africa to which we all object. He said he found it hard to
believe that total divestment could accomplish any such changes.
The policy adopted by the Regents, in his opinion, is much more
likely to succeed in accomplishing those changes everyone wants.
Heidi Gottfried then narrated a slide presentation depicting
conditions in South Africa, the system of apartheid and its affect
on living conditions and places of public accommodation.
VicePresident Brinkerhoff then presented his recommendations
with respect to the Black and Decker and G. D. Searle stocks. He
noted that his original recommendation was to divest both stocks.
He now believed that further conversations with G. D. Searle
might result in having that company comply with the intent of the
Regents policy. Therefore, he recommended the prudent divestiture of Black and Decker stock and authorization to work with
the Searle Company for an additional thirty days to achieve complance with Regental policy.
A further representative of the Coalition then spoke on the
inadequacy of the Sullivan Principles as a basis for bringing about
change in South Africa.
Joel Samoff also representing the coalition spoke to the issue.
He expressed disappointment that now only one stock was recommended for divestment. He argued that the goals of the Sullivan
Principles and the goals of the Regents' policy have not been
accomplished. No significant changes have come about in South
Africa as a result of companies operating under the Sullivan Principles. He concluded that total divestment still appears to hold the
only real hope for change.




280


APRIL MEETING, 1979


Jemardari Kamara commented that divestiture of Black and
Decker stock would be a step in the right direction but left a long
way to go. He went on to demand the creation of a Committee
on Social Responsibility as outlined in a document given to the
Regents. (The document is on file with the Secretary of the
University.)
Regent Dunn then stated that thirteen months was long enough
to wait for an affirmation of the Sullivan Principles. He moved
to divest the stocks of the Black and Decker and G. D. Searle
companies. Regent Waters seconded the motion.
Regent Baker commented that no one on the Board of Regents
or on the University staff favored the apartheid policies of South
Africa. This issue is simply one of many possible ethical positions
on which the University could take a position. The question then
is whether or not the University should take any such position
regardless of the cause involved. Regent Baker then restated
quotations from President Derek Bok of Harvard which indicated
that the basic intellectual freedom which an academic community
enjoys can be sustained only by fostering reasonable expression
of ideas and arguments.
"Universities cannot remain free from outside interference if
they insist on arrogating to themselves the right to use economic
leverage to influence the activities of others."
Regent Baker continued by noting that there appeared to be
a group on campus which seemed to take up any cause for the
purpose of politicizing the University. This group includes people
who call themselves marxists, socialists and communists. While
no one denies that such groups have the right to operate on this
campus, when such groups attempt to subvert University processes
to their own ends, they do indeed threaten academic freedom.
Regent Baker felt that there had been attempts by this
organization to intimidate others on campus including the Regents
and that damages academic freedom at this University. This had
included attempts to discredit University faculty members and
intimidation of students in their dormitories. When these kinds
of activities are viewed by the public, they will react negatively
and this will inevitably injure the University.
Members of the Coalition then distributed to the Regents
copies of a petition calling for total divestment.
Regent Baker remarked that the Regents had to represent
the views of the nine million citizens of Michigan in addition to
those of the students and faculty.
Regent Roach expressed his disappointment that some speakers
on the issue of divestment had chosen to attack the Regents'




APRIL MEETING, 1979


281


motivation, intelligence and morality rather than discussing the
merits and wisdom of their differing points of views. He went on
to say that he saw little evidence that stock divestment on the part
of institutions like Michigan State University and Wisconsin or
disinvestment on the part of Poloroid had any impact on the
apartheid policy of South Africa.
On the other hand he does see some evidence of change in
South Africa. The Regents' policy is very similar to the one now
being pursued by our own State Department which is pressing to
have American businesses operating in South Africa improve
conditions for non-white employees and is demonstrating to the
South African government the widespread public opposition to
racial policies in that country.
He noted that some speakers advocated divestment so as to
bring on armed revolution. That position simply is unconscionable
from his standpoint.
Mr. Smith cited a recent commission report recommending
elimination of the last categories of job reservation and recognition
of unions for non-whites.
Regent Laro stated that he had supported the Regents' policy
including the divestment provision. In the case of the two stocks
now in question he was concerned that the policy may not be
flexible enough to accommodate to a circumstance where a company's policy was essentially the same as called for by the Sullivan
Principles. The Searle Company response, he felt, was certainly
in keeping with the intent of the Regents' policy, and he would
not support divestiture in that instance. The case of Black and
Decker is less clear but even here they have indicated their policy
to fill occupational positions in a fair and equitable way without
regard to apartheid. Thus, he was also opposed to divestiture in
this case. In light of the statement of President Bok of Harvard,
Regent Laro felt that the Regents' policy may be a politicization
of the University that will be detrimental. He cited agenda items
like investment performance and hospital costs that were not
getting proper Regental attention because of the enormous amount
of time being spent on the divestment problem. Regent Laro
announced that in view of the foregoing, he wished to reexamine
the Regents' policy at an appropriate time, and that he would
vote against the present motion.
Regent Waters agreed that the Regents' policy ought to be
reviewed and revised because, like the Sullivan Principles, it is
ineffective and inadequate. He noted that the Searle Company
response indicates the company complies with the laws of the
nations in which it does business, which means they would support
the apartheid policy. He concluded that all companies doing




282


APRIL MEETING, 1979


business in South Africa would be similarly inclined to support
the government to maximize their economic well being. That being
the case, he felt that the Regents' policy ought to provide for
divestiture of all stock in companies so involved in South Africa.
Regent Laro indicated that the G. D. Searle letter also stated
the company's policy to provide equal treatment and opportunity
for all its employees and avoid any discrimination based on race,
sex, national origin, religion, or other artificial barriers.
President Smith reminded the Regents that their overall policy
would be reviewed when the SACFA committee report was submitted.
Regent Brown said that a year ago he was pessimistic that
continued presence of American companies in South Africa was
going to do much good or that we could really evaluate that.
Evidence thus far seems to suggest that the companies haven't
been able to accomplish much. He concluded therefore that the
companies should withdraw from South Africa. He felt the best
way to accomplish this was through responsible stockholder actions
that would pressure companies to do this. Divesting stock would
eliminate any opportunity to help this.
Regent Dunn noted that his motion was based upon current
Regental policy and that it embodies a requirement for companies
to affirm the Sullivan Principles.
Regent Roach said he believed that the Regents' debate on the
original policy was clear, that it was not the Sullivan Principles
per se, but rather a company's action to enhance the social,
economic and political rights of employees that was intended.
Regent Waters said the policy states clearly affirmation of
the Sullivan Principles.
Regent Roach then quoted the last line of the policy which
stated that we would "sell the shares of any corporation which
does not within a reasonable period of time, take reasonable steps
to effectuate the purposes of this resolution." That does not mean
the Sullivan Principles was to have been the sole measure.
President Smith said that interpretation of the policy is for
the Regents to decide and there can be different interpretations.
It would, therefore, be possible to separate the two companies
given the different nature of their responses.
Regent Laro said it was a grave concern to have such an
apparent disagreement on the meaning of its own policy. It is
possible that a similar misunderstanding exists for companies being
asked to respond to the University's policy.
Regent Nederlander said that the Searle Company response
indicated that they were in substantial compliance with the prin



APRIL MEETING, 1979


283


ciples. He wanted to know what that means before taking action.
Black and Decker's response was disappointing but that could
have resulted from the inadequacy of the University's communication with them. Even so, he felt some action should be taken. He
then moved to separate the original motion and vote on the question of divestiture of the stocks of the two companies separately.
Regent Laro seconded the motion.
Regent Dunn urged a no vote on separation since both companies are not in compliance and the University should divest
both.
Regent Power called the question on Regent Dunn's original
motion.
President Smith clarified that the motion is to separate the
question of divesture of the two stocks.
The motion to separate was adopted with Regents Dunn and
Waters voting no.
President Smith then indicated that Regent Dunn's original
motion was now a motion to prudently sell the stock of Black and
Decker.
Regent Baker moved to table the motion.
Regent Dunn argued that he had already called his original
motion.
Considerable disagreement arose on parliamentary questions
surrounding the issue of how debate on a question is closed. This
was eventually resolved by a vote against Regent Dunn's call for
his motion.
Regent Baker then moved again to table, seconded by Regent
Laro. The motion was defeated with Regents Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Roach, Power, and Waters voting no.
Regent Roach then expressed his concern over the response
from Black and Decker. He then raised the question of whether
such a response should cause the University to sell the stock or
initiate a stockholder action to try to get Black and Decker to
move in the direction of the Regents' policy. Regent Roach then
moved that University Counsel find out the expense risk and
procedures involved in taking a stockholder action as suggested.
Regent Baker seconded the motion.
Regent Dunn protested that his motion was still on the floor
and Regent Roach's motion could not be considered a substitute
motion.
Considerable debate again ensued on parliamentary procedure.
Regent Roach conceded that his motion was out of order.




284


APRIL MEETING, 1979


President Smith then called for a vote on the motion to divest
the Black and Decker stock. The motion failed with Regents
Roach, Nederlander, Baker, Laro, and Brown voting no.
After further parliamentary debate, President Smith called for
a vote on the second half of the originally severed motion which
would cause the prudent sale of stock in the G. D. Searle Company.
That motion failed with Regents Roach, Nederlander, Baker, Laro
and Brown voting no.
Regent Nederlander then moved that University Counsel be
asked to report on alternative courses of action which might be
taken with respect to companies doing business in South Africa
other than divestiture of stock. Regent Laro seconded the motion
and it was adopted with Regents Dunn, Waters and Power voting
no.
Committee  Regent Waters then moved that the President establish a
on Social
Practices permanent University committee on socially responsible practices
to report directly to the Regents. The composition of the committee and its duties are to follow those outlined in the communication from the Black Student Union. Regent Brown seconded
the motion for purposes of discussion. He thought the idea had
merit but wondered whether it ought to be referred to the officers
for review.
Regent Baker then moved a substitute to refer the Committee
on Social Practices to the Executive Officers for recommendation
as to form and composition without restriction. Regent Roach
seconded the substitute motion for purposes of debate. He noted
that this was the third time such a committee had been proposed.
He felt this whole idea ought to be considered as a part of the
report of the SACFA committee.
After some further discussion, the substitute motion was
adopted with Regents Dunn, Power, and Waters voting no and
Regent Roach abstaining.
W. Moran   President Smith then announced that Chancellor William
Appointed
Chancellor, Moran had just been named Chancellor of the University of North
NUivertyh i f Carolina at Greensboro and expressed the University's gratitude
at Greensboro and congratulations.
Black Student  President Smith then indicated that at an earlier meeting with
Union Requesting Regent Waters and others that the Black Student Union had
requested a task force to evaluate supportive service programs and
recommend any changes.
Vice-President Shapiro expressed his support for the idea.
President Smith then introduced Randy Potts who spoke to
the need for such a task force.




APRIL MEETING, 1979


285


Regent Waters then moved that the task force requested by
the Black Student Union at a meeting prior to Thursday's Regents'
meeting be formed by the President to be composed of six minority
students, two staff members, two administrators, and two faculty
members to carry out all the purposes indicated in the Black
Student Union memorandum dated April 19, 1979. Regent Baker
seconded the motion.
Regent Power commented that she had participated in the
earlier meeting with concerned black students. She thought it was
an excellent example of administrative, student, staff participation,
and that from the discussion it was clear that the University has
some very tough problems related to recruitment and retention
of students from minority groups. She regretted not having more
time for discussion on this matter.
Regent Baker also voiced his support for the task force and
its work toward goals that the Regents and others have in common.
The motion was adopted unanimously.
For the record, Regent Power then expressed her hope that
means could be found by which deliberations of the Regents could
be accomplished more smoothly at future meetings.
The meeting was adjourned with remaining items being deferred until the meeting scheduled for May 17 and 18, 1979.
All the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of March totaled $1,367.88.
The Regents adjourned to meet on May 17 and 18, 1979.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




APRIL MEETING, 1979


INDEX
Appointments, 262, 263; committee, 263
Black Student Union, requesting task force, 284
Choate, R. A., retirement memoir, 263
Dearborn, acting chancellor appointed, 263
Degrees: lists amended, 264; confirmed, 267; honorary degree at UM-Flint
approved, 267
Endowment fund report, 269
Expendable restricted fund budget, 258
Flint: conveyance of land agreement, 269; recreation facility, 257
Gifts, 259
Gramlich, E. M., appointed director of Institute for Public Policy Studies,
263
Hill, M. L. Estate, resolution, 267
Hospital: budget, 278; construction management, 277; replacement project,
277
Housing: family rates, 256; resolution authorizing increase in family Housing
contributions to Ann Arbor School Board, 257; University Terrace apartments, 269
Investments: portfolio, 255; South African investments, 256, 278
Klein, B. W., appointed Acting Chancellor, UM-Dearborn, 263
Leaves of absence, 264
Medical geriatric program, 278
Medical staff applications approved, 263
Membership approved, 268
Michigan Student Assembly: fee assessment, 275; financial report and audit
report, 255
Moran, W. E., appointed Chancellor, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, 284
Non-competitive purchases report, 268
Promotions, 262, 264
Public Comments, 268
Public Policy Studies, Institute for, director apponted, 263
Real property, 267
Regents' meeting, location changed, 255
Renovations, 268
Resignations, 264
Retirement, 264
Sculpture, gift of A. A. Taubman, 267
Social Practices, Committee on, 284
Student Health Services fee increased, 257
Tuition, 251




MAY MEETING, 1979
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, MAY 17, 1979
The Regents met at 2:00 P.M. at the Fair Lane Conference
Center at The University of Michigan-Dearborn.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Nederlander, Power, Roach and Waters. Chancellors Goodall and
Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present. Regent Laro was absent.
President Smith commented that at the April meeting a report Women's Track
alleging discrimination against the Women's Track Team was  ea
submitted to the Board by Sheila Mayberry and Blaise Supler,
students of the University and members of the Women's Track
Team. The Athletic Department's response to those allegations
and a reply by the two women to those responses were now before
the Board.
The discussion that followed revolved around the issues of
unproductive efforts to arrange an informal meeting between
Ms. Mayberry, Ms. Supler and Mr. Charles Harris, Assistant
Athletic Director, as suggested last month; the inadequate scheduling of facilities for the women's track team for practice; the
budget allocations for women's vs. men's track team; and the
number of and standards for competitive varsity participants
between men's and women's teams.
It was pointed out that the formal grievance procedure involves
an informal conference as the initial step. Since a meeting could
not be arranged before Ms. Mayberry and Supler left the campus
in April, it was suggested that perhaps the three parties involved
could now set a definite time for a conference.
Regent Roach stated that he felt it was inappropriate for the
Regents to become involved in the substance of the dispute, since
the Board of Regents would be the final judicatory authority.
He urged that a time be set now for an informal conference.
If the conference failed to solve the issues, a formal grievance
procedure should be initiated. If this fails, then the Regents would
discuss the issue on its merits.
Regent Power indicated that there seemed to be some fairly
profound differences of opinion and attitude in this regard. If
287




288


MAY MEETING, 1979


there had been adequate communication between the parties
perhaps these issues could have been resolved, and this conversation
avoided. She felt that it was appropriate at this time to move
the establishment of an ad hoc committee, as the Athletic Department's grievance procedures provide for, to look into these specific
allegations. Regent Brown seconded the motion.
Regent Roach stated that the motion would eliminate one
step in the grievance process by removing the possibility of resolving the issue informally through discussion and investigation.
Ms. Supler insisted that they felt they had complied with the
first step of the procedure when they met informally with Mr.
Harris on two separate occasions in February. None of their
allegations had been clarified at that time. Both Ms. Mayberry
and Ms. Supler said the establishment of an ad hoc committee
was a step forward in the procedure and, hopefully, would resolve
the issue more quickly.
President Smith indicated that if the motion failed, he would
be willing to offer to the complainants paid expenses from their
home to the University to participate in an informal conference.
He then called for the vote. The motion failed with Regents Baker,
Dunn, Nederlander, Roach and Waters voting no.
The Regents then urged the women to immediately arrange a
convenient time to meet with Mr. Harris.
Hospital  President Smith reported on the status of the Hospital replaceReplacemenment project. He said that discussions between the University and
the State were proceeding satisfactorily. He explained the need
for an extension of thirty days in order to develop data for a
Certificate of Need.


Certificate of Need
Academic Support
Services, Dearborn
Health Professions
Students


Regent Dunn then moved authorization of a thirty-day extension to file the certificate of Need. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker commented that the people of Michigan should
be made aware that the University Hospital serves a state-wide
community.
Ms. Maggie Martin, Director of Program for Academic Support at UM-Dearborn, reviewed the academic support services
program at Dearborn for minority students. She indicated that the
program included special tutoring in English composition, mathematics and science. The instructors work closely with the counselors who meet with each student once a week. The program
endeavors to assist students overcome academic deficiencies.
Ms. Marilyn Rosenthal, Assistant Professor of Sociology at
Dearborn, commented on the joint venture between The University of Michigan and Michigan State University for the health




MAY MEETING, 1979


289


professions students. After completing a two-week seminar, students enrolled in a special course in sociology will travel to China
this summer to compare health care systems.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the March 16 and 17, 1979 meeting were
approved with certain specified changes.
The minutes of the April 19 and 20, 1979 meeting were deferred until the June meeting.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on temporary investments, investment transactions, plant extension report, litigation, and personnel-labor relations.
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on the Office
of University Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from the following Gifts
sources. They were accepted with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the Hall Cell
Anode  Reactions  fund..................................$  5,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York, for American Cancer Society funds...............................  35,852.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn, for Michigan
Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds.....................  6,541.65
Chrysler Corporation Fund, Detroit, for the following funds:
Chrysler Corporation Engineering Scholarships and Fellowships fund............................................. 10,000.00
College of Engineering fund............................ 12,500.00
John D. Coon Estate, for the Medical School fund............ 43,912.33
Deloitte Haskins and Sells Foundation, New York, New York,
for the Haskins and Sells Foundation Fellowship fund....  7,000.00
Mrs. Leland I. Doan, Detroit, for the Alumni Center fund...... 40,000.00
Eaton Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, for the following funds:
College of Engineering fund............................  400.00
College of Engineering-Discretionary fund...............  50.00
Law School fund......................................    150.00
Various Industrial Sponsors-Colwell fund................  5,000.00
Vital Margin fund.....................................   450.00
General Motors Corporation, Staff Acounting Services, Detroit, for
the General Motors-Business Administration Graduate Fellowship fund..........................................  10,000.00
Howmet Turbine Components Corporation, Muskegon, for the
High Temperature Metallurgy Research fund.............  5,000.00




290


MAY MEETING, 1979


International Business Machines Corporation, Armonk, New York,
for the Humphrey-Law and Economic Policy fund........ 20,000.00
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York, for the Max
Kade Foundation-Visiting Professorship fund............  9,000.00
Kerr Manufacturing Company, Romulus, for the Kerr Manufacturing-Hanks  fund.....................................  6,000.00
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Rochester, for the Forney W.
Clements Memorial fund...............................    5,100.00
Nancy Newton Loeb Trust, for Nancy Newton Loeb funds....    24,083.68
Alex and Marie Manoogian Foundation, Detroit, for the College
of Literature, Science and the Arts-Instructional Assistance
fund..................................................  15,000.00
Michigan Bell Telephone, Detroit, for the Michigan Bell-Personnel
Research  Project  fund..................................  17,000.00
Michigan Eye Bank, Ann Arbor, for the Michigan Lions Eye
Bank fund............................................  17,907.00
Microwave Associates, Inc., Burlington, Massachusetts, for the
Microwave Associates-Haddad fund.....................    6,250.00
Monsanto Fund, Saint Louis, Missouri, for the following funds:
Business  School  fund...................................  70.00
College  of Engineering  fund.............................  20.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........    150.00
Law School fund.......................................  125.00
Medicinal Chemistry Research-Counsell fund.............    25.00
Monsanto-Cornish fund................................    7,440.00
College  of Pharmacy  fund..............................  125.00
Vital  M argin  fund.....................................  25.00
National Foundation, Kent County Chapter, Grand Rapids, for
the National Foundation-Schmickel fund................. 26,928.00
Fred J. Peterson Foundation, Inc., Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin, for
the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering Building
fund..................................................   5,000.00
R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc., Winston-Salem, North Carolina,
for the Economic Reporting fund.......................   5,000.00
Alfred W. Schluchter, Dearborn, for the Vital Margin fund....  5,000.00
E. R. Squibb and Sons, Inc., East Brunswick, New Jersey, for
the following funds:
Hypertension Research fund............................   7,583.50
Vascular  Research  fund.................................  5,000.00
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Ann Arbor, for
the Towsley Foundation-Horticultural Therapy Program fund  7,500.00
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Education Foundation, Inc.,
New York, New York, for United Cerebral Palsy Foundation
fund..................................................  27,193.00
Upjohn Company, Kalamazoo, for the following funds:
Alumni Family Camp fund.............................       50.00
Athletic  Scholarships  fund..............................  150.00
Business  School  fund..................................  200.00
School of  Dentistry  fund...............................  50.00
College of Engineering fund............................   250.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund.........   100.00
Clyde Johnson Scholarship fund.........................   100.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund...........  200.00
Medical  School  fund...................................  100.00
School  of  M usic  fund..................................  150.00
College of Pharmacy fund..............................    200.00
D. M. Phelps  fund.....................................  100.00
Public Health Alumni fund.............................    150.00
Maurice H. Seevers Memorial fund......................    200.00




MAY MEETING, 1979


291


Unrestricted fund......................................200.00
Upjohn Company Research fund-Pharmacy.............. 100,000.00
Vital Margin fund.....................................    150.00
W UOM     fund..........................................  460.00
Walgreen Benefit Fund, Deerfield, Illinois, for the Walgreen Educational Fund in Pharmacy fund.......................
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey, for the
following funds:
College of Engineering fund............................   510.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........   1,000.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..........  250.00
College of Pharmacy fund..............................     50.00
Research in Oral Pathology fund.........................  3,332.00
Vital  M argin  fund.....................................  125.00
WUOM    fund.........................................   345.00
Westinghouse Educational Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
for the following funds:
Business  School fund...................................  4,048.00
College of Engineering fund............................   100,00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........   1,388.00
Vital Margin fund.....................................     50.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
Mary M. Ketchum Estate. Various stocks, for the Mary M.
Ketchum Memorial fund............................... 50,994.68
Mrs. Louise G. Raphael, Atlanta, Georgia. NL Industries, Inc.,
and Standard Oil Company (Indiana), common stocks; for
the Theophile Raphael, M.D. Research fund..............  41,718.75
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Dr. C. Loring Brace, Ann Arbor. Volumes 31-40 of Human
Biology; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Michael L. Cohl, Huntington Woods. Two Philip Pearlstein lithographs: "Figure on Couch," and "Nude;" and a poster by
Ludwig Hohlwein; for the Museum of Art
Hugh Cooper, D.D.S., Ann Arbor. An M. C. Escher lithograph:
"Goriano Sicoli;" for the Museum of Art
Dr. & Mrs. Ralph J. Coskey, Farmington. A John Hoppner
painting: "The Digby Children," oil on canvas, for the Museum of Art
Prof. Marvin Eisenberg, Ann Arbor. A Jean Paul Slusser painting:
"Early Spring, Ann Arbor," casein tempra; for the Museum
of Art
Dr. Judith L. Elkin, Albion. Three etchings from the "Disasters of
War," series by Francisco Goya; for the Museum of Art
Mr. & Mrs. Jerome L. Epstein, Ann Arbor. A Maurice Vlaminck
lithograph: "Le Moulin de la Naze;" for the Museum of Art
Prof. Marvin Felheim, Ann Arbor. A Louis Le Broquy painting:
"Man," oil on canvas; and four Pierre Alechinsky etchings
entitled: "Sunday of the Bookkeeper;" for the Museum of Art
Mr. & Mrs. Larry Finley, Detroit. Six pieces of wicker furniture:
A couch, a chaise lounge, and a table with three chairs; for
the Fair Lane Conference Center, The University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
Cecile L. Fusfeld, M.D., Ann Arbor. Three Majolica platters; for
the Museum of Art
Robert T. Goldman, M.D., Southfield. A Lester Johnson painting:
"Country Portrait-Green," oil on canvas; for the Museum of
Art




292


MAY MEETING, 1979


Dr. & Mrs. Joseph A. Gosman, Toledo, Ohio. The Muguel Berrocal
"Yrogalema" sculpture; and a David Diao painting: "Untitled
(blue)";for the Museum of Art
Bruce Henry, Ann Arbor. A Ben Shahn drawing: "Prometheus;"
for the Museum of Art
Raymond C. Kelly, Ann Arbor. Twenty-Eight monographs; for
the Mischa Titiev Library
Lapp Princess Press, LTD, New York, New York. A Lucio Pozzi
and David Shapiro print: "Unwritten," offset lithograph; for
the Museum of Art
Frank B. Livingstone, Ann Arbor. Eight books and 163 issues of
various anthropological journals; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Nick S. Nicolas, Detroit. A Larry Zox drawing: "Study for a
painting," framed; for the Museum of Art
Picker Medical Division, Detroit. A new Picker Clinix-R type
radiography table with ultra high speed bucky, cassettte tray
and radiography grid; for the Department of Radiology
Marianne and J. Graham Smith, Ann Arbor. A Christo print entitled: "Projet pour L'embellage de L'arch de Triomphe;" for
the Museum of Art
Dr. William Randolph Taylor, Ann Arbor. 1962 mounted specimens of marine algae; for The University of Michigan Herbarium
Mrs. Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor. 160 books on anthropological
topics; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Margaret Elliott Tracy Estate. Three Southeast Asian bronzes:
a head, a crowned head and a standing monk; for the Museum of Art
Robert T. Weston, Detroit. An Ibo mask, a Yoruba Ibeji figure, a
Kissi Sierraheowe and 12 Japanese sword guards; for the
Museum of Art
Ms. Lucille S. Wilson, Ann Arbor. An early 18th Century, Lorenz
Haid mezzotint; for the Museum of Art
Mrs. Martha H. Wilson, Ann Arbor. Journals as follows: Bulletin
of the Seismological Society of America (1935-1978), Earthquake Notes (1930-1978), Geophysics (1948-1978), Journal
of Geophysical Research (1959-1978), Transactions of the
American Geophysical Union (1938-1958), Geophysical Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society (1958-1978), Review
of Geophysics and Space Physics (1975-1978), Geophysical
Research Letters (1974), Geology (1977-1978); 95 hardcover
books and 37 paperback books-for the Department of
Geology and Mineralogy, James T. Wilson Memorial Library
Eric Wolf, New York, New York.A book entitled: Peasant Wars
of the Twentieth Century, by Eric Wolf; for the Mischa
Titiev Library
IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
Appointments    The following personnel actions were approved by the Regents:
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
Elizabeth Crowell, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Economics, without tenure.
Bartley R. Frueh, M.D., Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, without
tenure




MAY MEETING, 1979


293


Wilbur L. Schramm, Howard R. Marsh Visiting Piofessor of Journalism,
March 19-April 6, 1979
Gerda M. Seligson, Professor of Latin, July 1-August 31, 1979
George N. Whitson, III, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Mathematics, without
tenure
CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF                   Promotions, etc.
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Alan Baum, Associate Professor of Mathematics, appointed Acting Chairman
of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn,
August 1, 1979 to December 31, 1979
Paul C. Boylan, Professor of Music, appointed Dean of the School of Music,
July 1, 1979 for a five year term
Peter Clarke, Professor of Communication, appointed Chairman of the Department of Communication, July 1, 1979 for a five-year term
Roy C. Cowen, Professor of German, appointed Chairman of the Department
of Germanic Languages, July 1, 1979 for a three-year term
Thomas M. Donahue, Professor of Atmospheric and Oceanic Science, reappointed Chairman of the Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic
Science, July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1980
Eugene N. Feingold, Professor of Medical Care Organization, reappointed
Associate Dean of the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
June 1, 1979 for a three-year term
Elaine Kathryn Gazda, Associate Professor of Classical Art and Archaeology
in the Department of the History of Art, and Associate Curator in the
Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, appointed Acting Director of the Kelsey
Museum of Archaeology, July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1980
Yale Kamisar, Professor of Law, appointed the Henry King Ransom
Professor of Law, September 1, 1979
Jaegwon Kim, Professor of Philosophy, appointed Chairman of the Department of Philosophy, June 1, 1979, to July 1, 1984
Glenn F. Knoll, Professor of Nuclear Engineering, appointed Chairman of the
Department of Nuclear Engineering, July 1, 1979, to June 30, 1984
Alfred C. Raphelson, Professor of Psychology, UM-Flint, appointed to the
David M. French Distinguished Professorship, May 18, 1979
Robert W. Storer, Professor of Zoology, appointed Acting Director of the
Museum of Zoology, October 1, 1979 to June 1, 1980
The Regents approved the appointment of David W. Emerson,
Professor of Chemistry, as Dean of the College of Art, Sciences
and Letters, at UM-Dearborn, for five years, effective July 1,
1979.
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE AND URBAN PLANNING
James A. Chaffers, from Associate Professor to Professor of Architecture,
with tenure
Kent L. Hubbell, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure
SCHOOL OF ART
Paul L. Stewart, from Associate Professor to Professor of Art, with tenure
SCHOOL OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Edward J. Mitchell, Professor of Business Economics, awarded tenure
Dennis G. Severance, Associate Professor of Computer Information Systems,
awarded tenure




294


MAY MEETING, 1979


THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-DEARBORN
Cloyzelle Karrelle Jones, from Associate Professor of Education to Professor
of Education, with tenure
Daniel E. Moerman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Anthropology, with tenure
Denis L. Dutton, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure
Deborah Levine, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Art
History, with tenure
Julia Chow Tai, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with
tenure
Judith E. Heady, from Assistant Professor to Associate Prfessor of Biological
Sciences, with tenure
Donald Anderson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science,
with tenure (Also holds title of Chairperson of the Department of
Social Sciences.)
Richard Roehl, from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, with
tenure
S. Thomas A. Cianciolo, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Business Administration, with tenure
Thomas C. Richards, Associate Professor of Management Science and Information Systems, awarded tenure (Also holds title of Director of
Computer and Information Science Program.)
SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY
Robert M. Bradley, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with
tenure
Robert L. Ellison, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with
tenure
John Paul Gobetti, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with
tenure
Carl Thomas Hanks, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry,
with tenure (Also holds title of Associate Professor of Pathology,
Medical School.)
Gloria J. Kerry, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry, with
tenure
John Michael Powers, from Associate Professor to Professor of Dentistry,
with tenure
Robert H. W. Brodbelt, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure
John F. Corcoran, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
Donald R. Heys, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry,
with tenure
John Gilbert Knapp, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure
Harry R. Pape, Jr., from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure
William Harold Roedema, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor
of Dentistry, with tenure
Ralph G. Silvey, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure
SCHOOL OF EDUCATION
Terrence N. Tice, from Associate Professor to Professor of Education with
tenure




MAY MEETING, 1979


295


Terrence N. Davidson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Education, without tenure. (Also holds title of Assistant Research
Scientist, Institute for Social Research.)
Kenneth M. Watkin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Education, with tenure
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Maria Comninou, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Applied
Mechanics and Engineering Science, without tenure
Francis M. Donahue, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemical
Engineering, with tenure
Dale E. Briggs, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure
Subhash C. Goel, from Associate Professor to Professor of Civil Engineering,
with tenure
James K. Wight, Associate Professor of Civil Engineering, awarded tenure
David L. Neuhoff, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, without tenure
Leslie Ann Olsen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Humanities
Gary D. Herrin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial
and Operations Engineering, with tenure
Gary D. Langolf, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, without tenure
William S. Vorus, Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine
Engineering, awarded tenure
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-FLINT
Nallapu Reddy, from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics, with
tenure
Anita Hochster, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English,
with tenure
Consuelo Provost (Sybil Kein), from Assistant Professor to Associate
Professor of English, with tenure
Bruce Rubenstein, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of History,
with tenure
Larry King, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Mathematics,
with tenure
Birgitta Vance, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Spanish,
with tenure
Carolyn Mawby, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Music,
with tenure
William Marsh, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Physical
Geography, with tenure
LAW SCHOOL
Gerald M. Rosberg, from Associate Professor to Professor of Law, with
tenure
Christina B. Whitman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Law, without tenure
SCHOOL OF LIBRARY SCIENCE
Gwendolyn S. Cruzat, from Associate Professor to Professor of Library
Science, with tenure
Victor Rosenberg, Associate Professor of Library Science, awarded tenure




296


MAY MEETING, 1979


COLLEGE OF LITERATURE, SCIENCE, AND THE ARTS
Maxwell Owusu, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anthropology,
with tenure
Karl L. Hutterer, from Assistant Professor and Assistant Curator to Associate Professor of Anthropology and to Associate Curator of Archaeology
in the Museum of Anthropology, with tenure
Michael Taussig, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure
Stephen S. Easter, Jr., from Associate Professor of Zoology to Professor of
Biological Sciences, with tenure
William  R. Anderson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Biological Sciences, with tenure (Also holds title of Associate Curator
of Vascular Plants, Herbarium.)
M. David Curtis, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with
tenure
Billy Joe Evans, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with
tenure
John T. Groves, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry, with
tenure
Paul G. Rasmussen, from Associate Professor to Professor of Chemistry,
with tenure
Thomas Emil Weisskopf, from Associate Professor to Professor of Economics,
with tenure
Ejner J. Jensen, from Associate Professor to Professor of English, with tenure
Macklin Smith, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of English,
with tenure
Louis O. Gomez, from Associate Professor to Professor of Far Eastern
Languages and Literatures, with tenure
Shuen-fu Lin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Far Eastern
Languages and Literatures, with tenure
Rob Van der Voo, from Associate Professor to Professor of Geology and
Mineralogy, with tenure
Philip D. Gingerich, from Assistant Professor and Assistant Curator to Associate Professor of Geology and Mineralogy, with tenure, and Associate
Curator in the Museum of Paleontology
Bruce H. Wilkinson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Geology and Mineralogy, with tenure
Calvin French, from Associate Professor to Professor of History of Art, with
tenure
Joel Isaacson, from Associate Professor to Professor of History of Art, with
tenure
Thomas Lloyd Markey, from Assistant Professor to Professor of Linguistics,
without tenure (Also holds title of Professor of German, with tenure.)
Gene M. Schramm, from Associate Professor to Professor of Linguistics,
without tenure (Also holds title of Professor of Near Eastern Languages
and Literatures, with tenure.)
Thomas F. Storer, from Associate Professor to Professor of Mathematics,
with tenure
Igor V. Dolgachev, Associate Professor of Mathematics, awarded tenure
Matthew W. Stolper, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Near
Eastern Studies, with tenure
Kendall L. Walton, from Associate Professor to Professor of Philosophy,
with tenure
Zvi Gitelman, from  Associate Professor to Professor of Political Science,
with tenure
Michael D. Cohen, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure
Milton Heumann, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Political
Science, with tenure




MAY MEETING, 1979                             297
Martin Gold, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, without
tenure (Also holds title of Research Scientist in the Institute for Social
Research.)
Robert Pachella, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychology, with
tenure
Marilyn Shatz, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Psychology,
with tenure
Mary Jackman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Sociology,
with tenure
Edward D. Rothman, from Associate Professor to Professor of Statistics,
with tenure
Richard J. Burgwin, from Associate Professor to Professor of Theatre and
Drama, with tenure
Peter W. Frerran, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Theatre
and Drama, with tenure
MEDICAL SCHOOL
Daniel H. Ringler, from Associate Professor to Professor of Laboratory
Animal Medicine, with tenure
Muriel D. K. Ross, from Associate Professor to Professor of Anatomy, with
tenure
Thomas G. Connelly, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Anatomy, with tenure
John H. Lillie, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Anatomy,
with tenure (Also holds the title of Associate Professor of Dentistry.)
Peter Coyle, Associate Professor of Anatomy, awarded tenure
James A. McNamara, Jr., Associate Professor of Anatomy, awarded tenure
Donald E. Hultquist, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure
Margaret J. Hunter, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure
Merle Mason, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological Chemistry,
with tenure
Charles H. Williams, Jr., from Associate Professor to Professor of Biological
Chemistry, with tenure
Roy D. Schmickel, from Associate Professor to Professor of Human Genetics,
with tenure (Also holds title of Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases.)
Armin E. Good, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine,
with tenure
John C. Marshall, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine,
with tenure
Sumer Pek, from Associate Professor to Professor of Internal Medicine, with
tenure
Jorge J. Gumucio, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
M. Gary Nicholls, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure
Jeoffrey K. Stross, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure (Also holds title of Associate Professor of Postgraduate Medicine and Health Professions Education.)
Sara E. Walker, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, with tenure
Roger F. Meyer, Associate Professor of Ophthalmology, awarded tenure
Malcolm D. Graham, Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, awarded tenure
Kathleen P. Heidelberger, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pathology,
with tenure




298


MA,4Y MEETING, 1979


Joanne S. Richards, from Assisant Professor to Associate Professor of Reproductive Biology, without tenure
Eugene M. Silverman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Pathology, without tenure
Michael R. Zimmerman, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor
of Pathology, without tenure (Also holds title of Assistant Professor of
Anthropology.)
Nancy J. Hopwood, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure
William B. Pratt, from Associate Professor to Professor of Pharmacology,
without tenure
Maria J. Paluszny, from Associate Professor to Professor of Psychiatry,
with tenure
SCHOOL OF MUSIC
Leslie Guinn, from Associate Professor to Professor of Music, with tenure
Robert Culver, Associate Professor, awarded tenure
SCHOOL OF NATURAL RESOURCES
Gary W. Fowler, from Associate Professor to Professor of Biometrics, with
tenure
James R. Boyle, from Associate Professor to Professor of Natural Resources,
with tenure
SCHOOL OF NURSING
Regina Lederman, from Associate Professor to Professor of Nursing, with
tenure
Janice Lindberg, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing,
with tenure (Also holds title of Chairperson, Fundamentals Area of
Nursing.)
Susan B. Steckel, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Nursing,
with tenure
COLLEGE OF PHARMACY
Cary E. Johnson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Pharmacy, with tenure (Also holds title of Clinical Pharmacist, University
Hospital.)
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH
Robert H. Gray, from Associate Professor to Professor of Environmental
and Industrial Health, with tenure (Also holds title of Associate Research
Scientist, Institute of Environmental and Industrial Health.)
A. P. Jacobson, from Associate Professor to Professor of Radiological Health,
with tenure
Rudy J. Richardson, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of
Toxicology, with tenure
James B. Martin, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Hospital
Administration, with tenure
SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK
Thomas J. Powell, from Associate Professor to Professor of Social Work,
with tenure
Brett A. Seabury, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social
Work, with tenure
Martha Gizynski, from Assistant Professor to Associate Professor of Social
Work, with tenure




MAY MEETING, 1979


299


The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence without
salary for Shepard Forman, Associate Professor of Anthropology,
and Nolan E. Jones, Assistant Professor of Political Science.
The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Engineering Executive Committee
Professor Brice Carnahan, for a four-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1983, vice Professor Raph A. Loomis, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Committee
Professor Margaret J. Hunter, for a three-year term, September 1, 1979 to
August 31, 1982, vice Professor Frank E. Hooper, term expired
Professor James J. Duderstadt, for a three-year term, September 1, 1979 to
August 31, 1982, vice Professor Billy Joe Evans, term expired
Professor Joseph L. Sax, for a three-year term, September 1, 1979 to
August 31, 1982, vice Professor Aram Yengoyan, term expired
Professor Sherri Smith, for a three-year term, September 1, 1979 to August 31,
1982, vice Professor Robert Super, term expired
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Professor Henry Pollack, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Professor Donald Lewis, term expired
Professor Albert Feuerwerker, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Professor Bradford Perkins, term expired
Associate Professor Edna Coffin, for a two-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1981, to complete term of Professor Charles Hucker, resigned from the
committee
School of Music Executive Committee
Professor Donald Sinta, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1982,
vice Professor Keith Bryan, term expired
Professor Charles Fisher, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Professor Leslie Guinn, term expired
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Professor Irene Butter, for a three-year term, September 1, 1979 to August 31,
1982, vice Professor Paul Feldstein, term expired
Assistant Professor John Wheeler, for a three-year term, September 1, 1979
to August 31, 1982, vice Assistant Professor Frizell Vaughan, term
expired
College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint Executive Committee
Associate Professor Mary E. Cox, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to
June 30, 1982, vice Professor Anita Hochster, term expired
Professor Harry H. Blecker, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Professor Jane Taylor, term expired
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:


Leaves of Absence
Committee
Appointments
Appointments


NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective May 1, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
Lecturer
Anne Kathleen Beaubian, A.M.L.S., Library Science
Mary Wiedenbeck George, A.M.L.S., Library Science
Sharon A. Hogan, A.M.L.S., Library Science




300


MAY MEETING, 1979


Visiting Professor
Tsuneori Okada, Ph.D., Mechanical Engineering, April 1, 1979
Victor G. Rosenblum, Ph.D., Law, May 31, 1979
Visiting Associate Professor
John C. Coffee, Jr., LL.M., Law, May 31, 1979
Visiting Assistant Professor
Roberto Garcia, D.D.S., Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Terence E. Horgan, Ph.D., Philosophy
A. Arthur Kuflik, Ph.D., Philosophy
Masayoshi Tachibana, Ph.D., Otorhinolaryngology, April 1, 1979
Clinical Instructor
Frank X. Colligan, M.D., Psychiatry, March 1, 1979
Adjunct Lecturer
Arthur Curley, M.A., Library Science
David John Larwa, M.A., Education, January 1, 1979
Joseph William Riley, Ph.D., Education, January 1, 1979
Tom D. Thomas, B.S., Natural Resources, January 1, 1979
Promotions, etc. CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective February 1, 1979
Gary J. Rentschler, from Assistant Professor of Education and Speech
Pathology, and Assistant Director of the Speech and Hearing Camp to
Assistant Professor of Education and Speech Pathology, and Associate
Director of the Speech and Hearing Camp
Resignations    TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS
Effective April 30, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
Ruth Churley-Strom, Assistant Professor of Nursing, May 31, 1979
Diane G. Eigsti, Assistant Professor of Nursing, May 31, 1979
Beverly A. Entwistle, Clinical Instructor in Dentistry, December 31, 1978
Joan E. Lanier, Clinical Instructor in Dentistry
John C. Logan, Clinical Assistant Professor in Dentistry
David H. Mason, Jr., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine
Carolyn M. Mills, Assistant Professor of Behavioral Sciences, UM-Dearborn
Lisa D. Sostecke, Clinical Instructor in Dentistry
Lucetta S. Stern, Clinical Instructor in Psychology, April 6, 1979
William J. Tichenor, Jr., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry
Jean E. Wright, Instructor in Surgery, May 1, 1979
Leaves of Absenc    One  O   leave of absence without salary, two sabbatical leaves
and two extended sick leaves were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
C. A. Eggertsen    Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of five faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.
CLAUDE A. EGGERTSEN, Professor of Education, will retire from
active faculty status at The University of Michigan on May 31, 1979. He




MAY MEETING, 1979


301


reached the age of 70 on February 25, 1979, having served a distinguished
forty-year career in the area of Social Foundations of Education, particularly
as an expert in historical studies and in international and comparative education.
Professor Eggertsen has been a faculty member of the School of Education since his appointment as instructor in 1939. He has been a full professor
since 1953 and has been chairman of the department (later program) during
most of his tenure here. He received his B.A. from Brigham Young University
in 1930, his M.A. from that institution in 1933, and his Ph.D. from the
University of Minnesota in 1939. Before coming to Ann Arbor, he had been
a high school teacher in Price, Utah (1930-34); he had also taught both as
an instructor at the University of Minnesota (1935-39) and as a visiting
assistant professor at Brigham Young University and the University of
Colorado. He has since served as a Visiting Professor at Ohio State University,
UCLA, the University of Colorado, San Jose State College, University of
Baroda, and at the University of Sheffield, with which he has sustained a
regular and close relationship since 1957.
During 1944-46, he served as Lieutenant in the U.S. Naval Reserve,
Pacific Theater, where he was Officer-in-Charge of Educational Services for
the 14th Naval District. He received the Bronze Star Medal in 1946 for
organizing and operating the Navy Pacific University.
Professor Eggertsen has studied public education through regular visits
to Europe over the past thirty years, also to Mexico, India, and other Asian
countries. He has published many articles on the educational history of the
U.S. in the 19th century and has supervised numerous monographs in international and comparative education, most of which have been published in
the U-M Comparative Education Dissertation Series (No. 28, 1975) and the
U-M Social Foundations of Education Monograph Series (No. 8, 1978). As
an extension of his Wednesday afternoon seminar for doctoral students in
Social Foundations, held for many years, an association consisting primarily
of his former students has been formed which carries on professional functions. He has been honored by them in a retirement dinner, and they are
preparing a Festschrift in his honor.
A pioneer in the field of international and comparative education, he
was Editor of the History of Education Journal (1950-59), founded and
edited the periodical Notes and Abstracts in American and International
Education (1961- ), was Executive Secretary of the National Society of
College Teachers of Education (1949-60), was President of the History of
Education Society in 1950 and of the Comparative Education Society in
1963, and was made a member of the European Comparative Education
Society in 1966. Through many projects and conferences he brought prominence to the Social Foundations program in international and comparative
education. Especially notable was the 1962-72 Education in India project.
Among the several foreign field experiences he arranged, those for would-be
teachers offered at the Universities of Sheffield (1960- ), Keele 1963-70)
and Edinburgh (1966- ) were the most extensive.
In 1979 a lectureship was established in his honor, to be given at annual
meetings of the International and Comparative Education Society. He has
also been a member of the Phi Kappa Phi and a Fellow of the Philosophy of
Education Society and has served the U.S. Office of Education and the
Fulbright Board in various capacities.
Special mention should also be made of Professor Eggertsen's seminal
role in the creation of the University faculty's Senate Assembly and of his
widely acknowledged and gifted leadership in University faculty governance
over the past two decades.
The Regents now salute this distinguished professor for his outstanding
service to The University of Michigan and the fields of international and
comparative education by naming him Professor Emeritus of Education.




302


MAY MEETING, 1979


E. T. Hooper,    EMMET T. HOOPER, Curator of Mammals in the Museum of Zoology
Retirement and Professor of Zoology in the Division of Biological Sciences retired on
May 1, 1979 after a distinguished career at The University of Michigan.
Professor Hooper did much of his undergraduate work at San Diego
State College, but received his A.B. from the University of California,
Berkeley where he remained for all of his graduate work (M.A., 1936;
Ph.D., 1939). His association with The University of Michigan began in 1938
when he accepted the position of Curator of Mammals, a post he held until
his retirement. He became Assistant Professor of Zoology in 1946 and
progressed to the rank of Professor in 1958.
Dr. Hooper spent his life in the study of the relationships and geographic
distribution of mammals, subjects about which he published nearly 90 papers.
A dozen Ph.D. students carried out studies of various aspects of the biology
of mammals under his direction, and many of these students now hold
prominent positions at outstanding institutions.
Professor Hooper was a member of several scientific societies. He served
as President and Vice-president of the American Society of Mammalogists,
the major scientific organization in his field. This society elected him as an
Honorary Member in 1976 for his service to the society and for his contributions to the study of mammals. Professor Hooper also served as a
Program Director for one of the divisions of the National Science Foundation
and was President of the University of Michigan Science Research Club.
Emmet Hooper was a pioneer in the detailed study of mammalian soft
anatomy as an aid to classification of groups, and established large specialized
collections of preserved mammals for anatomical study. Many of his publications will be lasting contributions to the science of Mammalogy.
The regents now salute this distinguished curator and professor by
naming him Curator Emeritus of Mammals and Professor Emeritus of
Zoology.
L. H. Hughes,    LLOYD H. HUGHES, Professor of Education, will retire from active
Retirement faculty status at The University of Michigan on May 31, 1979. Professor
Hughes has been a professor of the University for ten years. He joined the
School of Educaiton in 1969 after two decades of outstanding service at the
UNESCO.
Born in Missouri, Professor Hughes received his A.B. and A.M. in
History from the University of California at Berkeley in 1931 and 1936,
respectively. Then he served as a high school teacher and administrator, and
later taught History and Spanish at Stowe Teachers College in St. Louis.
From 1942 to 1948, he was employed as an education officer at the InterAmerican Foundation, Office of Inter-American Affairs, Washington, D.C.
For the Foundation he made research studies of educational and related
problems in Latin America; these studies served as a background for the
negotiation of agreements with Latin American governments and also for
planning programs of elementary and secondary education, vocational training and teacher training in eighteen of the twenty Latin American countries.
In 1949, Professor Hughes was appointed by UNESCO as consultant
on rural education and from June of 1950, as a member of the Secretariat.
Over a period of ten years he was Deputy Director of the Regional Training
Center for Fundamental Education and Community Development, with headquarters in Mexico. Posts he held later include Chief of the Literacy Appraisal Mission to the Philippines, Chief of the UNESCO Mission and
Specialist in Adult Literacy and Adult Education in Ecuador, and program
specialist in training for literacy at UNESCO Headquarters in Paris.
During his tenure at The University of Michigan, Professor Hughes has
taught many graduate and undergraduate classes in history of education
and seminars in Latin American education. He has provided invaluable
advisory and consultation services for researchers, and teachers in Latin




MAY MEETING, 1979


303


American studies. His vast knowledge and profound understanding in Latin
American education have been highly regarded by his students and colleagues.
Professor Hughes is extremely fluent in Spanish, and is able to work in
French and Portuguese. He has written many articles on educational and
historical themes with particular reference to Latin America.
The Regents now salute this distinguished professor for his outstanding
service to The University of Michigan and the field of Latin American
education by naming him Professor Emeritus of Education.
WILLIAM    GEORGE MERHAB, Profesor of Romance Languages and         W. G. Merhab,
Education, will retire from active faculty status at The University of Michi-  Retirement
gan on May 31, 1979.
Professor Merhab has been a member of the University community for
forty-nine years, first as a magna cum laude graduate and as a distinguished
faculty member. He earned the A.B. in French in 1934, the M.A. in French in
1935, and the Ph.D. in Romance Languages in 1942. While a graduate student
he taught French and Spanish. During World War II, Professor Merhab
served his country in South America where he organized an American Cultural Center, directed and taught English language courses and was appointed
to be Director of Department of Courses of the Institute Brazil-Estados
Unidos of Rio de Janeiro. While in Brazil he organized the first Association
of Teachers of English in Brazil, which subsequently became a Brazilian
national organization, prepared text materials for teaching English, and
broadcast over B.B.C. and N.B.C. for the Brazilian Government. Upon
returning to the United States in 1946, Professor Merhab began his faculty
tenure at The University of Michigan. He was director of professional
preparation of foreign language teachers, directed NDEA institutes, conducted
seminars for UNESCO, created a Michigan Interdisciplinary Seminar on
Latin America with Literary College colleagues, worked in the TEFL program
and developed a bilingual education program.
Professor Merhab is a member of TESOL, Modern Language Association, Association of Teachers of English (honorary life member), MEA,
American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese, ASCD, American Council of the Teaching of Foreign Language, American Association for
Bilingual Education, and American Association of Teachers of French.
The breadth of experience, interest and training have enabled him to
bridge the gap between theory and practice. Schools seek his counsel as do
doctoral students in the varying interests in language acquisition. He is
presently involved in a federally funded bilingual project.
The Regents now salute this distinguished professor for his exemplary
service to The University of Michigan, in two schools, and to a variety of
fields dealing with language acquisition, by naming him Professor Emeritus
of Romance Languages and Professor Emeritus of Education.
G. MAX WINGO, Professor of Education, will retire from active faculty  G. M. Wingo,
status at The University of Michigan on May 31, 1979.                   Retirement
Professor Wingo has been a member of the University community for
thirty-four years. He was invited to join the School of Education faculty
in 1945 to serve as Principal of the University Elementary School. He distinguished himself in that capacity, and as Director of Elementary Student
Teaching until 1954. From that time until his retirement, Professor Wingo
has taught History and Philosophy of Education.
He earned a B.S. degree in English and Education from Southwest
Missouri State College in 1933, an M.A. degree in Social Foundations of
Education from Columbia University in 1938, and a Ph.D. in History and
Philosophy of Education from Yale University in 1941. Before coming to the
University, Professor Wingo had taught in the Sprinfield, Missouri public
schools and had served as an elementary school principal in the New London,
Connecticut and the Darien, Connecticut public schools.




304


MAY MEETING, 1979


A partial listing of Professor Wingo's major publications would include:
With R. Schorling, Elementary School Student Teaching. McGraw Hill,
1st Edition 1940; 2nd Edition 1955; 3rd Edition 1960.
The Philosophy of American Education. D. C. Heath, 1st Edition 1965;
2nd Edition 1971.
With W. C. Morse, Classroom Psychology: Readings in Educational
Psychology. Scott Foresman, 1st Edition 1957; 2nd Edition 1962; 3rd
Edition 1971.
He is acknowledged by his colleagues as a uniquely Renaissance sort of
writer and thinker, able to combine in lucid fashion the classical and modern.
For many of his younger colleagues, he served as model and counsellor.
Students, too, sought him as a gifted teacher and sage advisor.
Professor Wingo served the School of Education and the University
community as a respected member of many important committees including
the Executive Committee of the School, the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics, and a variety of Senate advisory committees. Across
the entire University community, he was recognized as one of the most
distinguished spokesmen for the School of Education.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his quiet, intelligent service to The University of Michigan, to his colleagues and students,
and to the field of history and philosophy of education by naming him
Professor Emeritus of Education.
VII. DEATHS
J. H. Wiley,   Secretary Kennedy reported to the Regents the death of John
Memorial
Statement H. Wiley, Professor of Speech Pathology. The following memorial
statement was adopted.
Professor JOHN H. WILEY died suddenly in University Hospital on
March 24, 1979 at the age of 58. The University community and the Regents
express their deep sorrow at the loss of this most respected colleague.
A native of Mendota, Illinois, Professor Wiley graduated with a B.A.,
from Northern Illinois State in 1941. He obtained his M.A. in Speech
Pathology from the State University of Iowa before serving in the United
States Air Force from 1942-1946. John then returned to graduate school,
receiving his Ph.D. in Speech Pathology and Psychology from the University
of Southern California in 1950.
Professor Wiley began his career at the University of Nebraska in 1948,
where he served as the Director of Speech and Hearing Laboratories from
1951-1961. He was the chief of the Division of Communicative Disorders at
the Nebraska Psychiatric Institute between 1961-1965. John came to The
University of Michigan in 1965 as Professor of Speech. While his research
interests in Speech and Language Pathology were varied. Dr. Wiley's primary
thrust in clinical applied research was in the area of mental retardation and
associated language disorders in children. His contributions to the field of
Speech and Language Pathology were recognized by the American Speech
and Hearing Association who elected him to "FELLOW" in 1964. He also
was the recipient of the "HONORS" of the Nebraska Speech and Hearing
Association.
John served The University of Michigan in many capacities. For example, he served on the Executive Committee of the Institute for the Study
of Mental Retardation and Related Disabilities from 1968-1971; Chairman
of the subcommittee on fringe benefits for the Committee on Economic
Status of the Faculty between 1973-1976; and Board of Directors of the
Michigan Union, 1973-1976.




MAY MEETING, 1979


305


Professor Wiley will be remembered by his many students and colleagues
as a kind, patient, and thoughtful teacher, always willing to listen and to
encourage. The Regents extend their deepest sympathy to Professor Wiley's
family, colleagues, students, and friends.
Vice-President Shapiro reported the death of Louis I. Briggs,
Profesor of Geology and Mineralogy. A memorial statement will
be submitted at the June meeting.
VIII. DEGREES
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the Degree Lists
Regents approved the following amendments to the degree lists:  Amended
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Master of Arts, December 1978
Near Eastern Studies
add:
Soheil Rouhani, A.B.
Master of Science in Engineering, December, 1978
Civil Engineering
add:
Farhang Ostadan, Licence, University of Tehran, Iran
The University of Michigan-Dearborn
Master of Science in Engineering, December, 1978
Mechanical Engineering
add:
Dan Clark Pasma, B.S.E. (M.E.)
College of Literature, Science and the Arts
Bachelor of Arts, December 1978
add:
Priscilla Dale Murray
correct to show:
David Allen Victor, with High Distinction; Honors in English; Honors
in History
Bachelor of Arts, May, 1970
add:
Franklin James Kladzyk, Jr.
Bachelor in General Studies, April, 1978
add:
Michael Lee Kenn
Bachelor of Science, December, 1978
add:
Alexander Michael Nitkiewicz, with Distinction




306


MAY MEETING, 1979


Honorary Degrees   The Regents approved all but one of the recommendations
of the Committee on Honorary Degrees for the conferring of
honorary degrees at the December 1979 Commencement exercises
and approved the recommendations for the Outstanding Achievement Awards. Public announcement will occur following acceptance by the individuals.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Major Medical    The Regents received a report on the addition of maternity
Health Insurance
coverage to the Major Medical Health Insurance Plan.
Real Property    Regent Baker moved to authorize the aceptance of a gift of
property on Pell's Island, Douglas Lake in accordance with the
following agreement. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
GIFT AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, by and between WINDWARD-LEEWARD, INC., an Indiana
Corporation (hereinafter called "Donor") and THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, a Michigan constitutional corporation (hereinafter
called "University"),
WITNESSETH:
WHEREAS, The Donor is the owner of the folowing described real estate
located in Cheboygan County, Pell's Island, Douglas Lake, Michigan, to-wit:
Commencing at the Southwest Corner Section 29. Thence North 00
Degrees 52 Minutes 30 Seconds East along West side of Section 2769.10
feet to meander post on South side of Pells Island. Thence North 00
Degrees 50 Minutes 30 Seconds East 382.88 feet. Thence North 28 Degrees 54 Minutes 40 Seconds East 527.38 feet. Thence North 43 Degrees
3 Minutes 40 Seconds East 398.06 feet to place of beginning. Thence
North 43 degrees 3 minutes 40 seconds East 205.52 feet. Thence North
30 Degrees 27 minutes 40 Seconds East 25.84 feet. Thence South 46
Degrees 18 Minutes 40 Seconds East 253.20 feet. Thence South 26 dedegrees 45 minutes West 296.16 feet. Thence North 37 Degrees 16 minutes 40 seconds West 355.49 feet to place of beginning. Part of Government Lot 5. Also Commencing at Southwest corner Section 29. Thence
North 00 degrees 32 minutes 30 seconds East along West side 2769.10
feet to meander post on South side of Pells Island. Thence North 00
degrees 50 minutes 30 seconds East 382.88 feet. Thence North 28 degrees
54 minutes 40 seconds East 527.38 feet. Thence North 43 Degrees 3
minutes 40 seconds East 603.58 feet. Thence North 30 degrees 27 minutes 40 seconds East 25.84 feet to place of beginning. Thence North 30
degrees 27 minutes 40 seconds East 231.36 feet. Thence South 61 Degrees
7 minutes East 227.42 feet. Thence South 26 Degrees 45 minutes West
296.19 feet. Thence North 46 Degrees 18 minutes 40 seconds West 253.20
feet to place of beginning. Part of Government Lot 5 Section 29 Township 37 North, Range 3 West,
and
WHEREAS, the Donor desires to convey said real property to the University as a gift, and the University is desirous of accepting said gift, subject
to the following terms and conditions:




MAY MEETING, 1979


307


1. As soon as practicable Donor shall execute its Warranty Deed conveying said real estate to the University.
2. The University agrees to preserve and maintain the land as an integral
part of the University of Michigan Biological Station with headquarters at
Douglas Lake, Michigan, for so long as the University shall operate said
Biological Station.
3. Said real estate shall be retained as near a natural state as it presently
is; that the natural uniqueness and diversity of said real estate be protected,
except that the present and traditional footpaths and shoreline shall remain
open and maintained for pedestrian passage; that there shall be no cutting
of trees, building of structures, removal of plants, (except for research purposes), grazing of domestic animals, farming, excavating, camping, mining,
drilling, spraying or use of biocides, artificial plantings, trapping, (except
for research purposes), draining of the land, experimental burnoffs, construction of roads for motor vehicles, trenches for utilities, poles for utility lines,
or other activities which would destroy the aesthetic or ecological value of
said real estate.
The University or its successors, shall have the obligation of enforcing
the foregoing restrictions, limitations and conditions.
4. The University, through its Biological Station, above mentioned, shall
have the right to use said real estate to observe and study nature, collect
scientific and educational data, so long as the same are done without materially disturbing the present condition of said real estate.
5. Stockholders, Officers and Directors of Windward-Leeward, Inc. shall
have the right to use windfall timber on conveyed real estate and also use the
beaches on said real estate for recreational purposes with annual permission
from the Director of the University of Michigan Biological Station located
at Pellston, Michigan.
6. If the University ceases to operate the Biological Station or desires
to dispose of said real estate, the University shall:
a. Convey for no monetary consideration said real estate to the
Nature Conservancy or some other organization with similar preservation and conservation ideals, in order to continue preserving said real
estate; or, if no such organization is willing to accept the real estate.
b. Said real estate shall be offered to Donor for the sum of One
Dollar ($1.00).
c. If not accepted by Donor, the University shall convey said
property as it desires, free and clear of the foregoing limitations, restrictions and conditions.
7. In the event any real estate taxes are assessed or payble after the
execution of this Agreement, the University shall have the obligation of satisfying the payment of the same. The Donor and the University mutually
understand and agree that such a conveyance from the Donor to the University will not be subject to gift or any other tax, and in the event such
gift or other tax is imposed upon the Donor, this Agreement and any conveyance of real estate under this Agreement shall be null and void.




308


MAY MEETING, 1979


WINDWARD-LEEWARD, INC.
B y.................................
President
ATTESTS..............................
Secretary
THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN
By.................................
J. F. Brinkerhoff, Vice-President
and Chief Financial Officer
Regent Roach moved authorization to sell the University's
undivided one-quarter interest in a certain parcel of land in the
Township of Maple Grove, Barry County, Michigan subject to an
appraisal, as recommended. Regent Nederlander seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
The Regents then heard comments by students Jack Hall and
Carolyn Sommerville representing the Joel Samoff Support Committee; Jim Sullivan concerning the Michigan Student Assembly
elections; Iris Becker, Jack Smiley, Pete Wescott, Jane Welrath,
Kathy O'Brien and Ms. Schneiderwind concerning the Dearborn
campus and its environs; Professor Richard Corpron, who spoke
on a Senate Advisory Review Committee case; and Associate
Profesor Ronald Stockton on South African investments.
Regent Roach then moved to close the 9:00 A.M. meeting on
Friday for consideration of the annual promotion list. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regents
Baker, Brown, Dunn, Nederlander, Power, Roach and Waters
voting affirmatively.
The meeting was recessed.
FRIDAY, MAY 18, 1979
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Power, Roach and Waters. Chancellors Goodall
and Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present.
w. w. Vasse,  Regent Laro moved to approve the appointment of William
Acting Chancellt W. Vasse, Chairman of the Department of English at UM-Flint,
as Acting Chancellor of that campus. Regent Dunn seconded the
motion and it was adopted.




MAY MEETING, 1979


309


Mr. Fred Mayer presented a progress report covering pre- Engineeing
liminary plans for the Engineering Building II which will be
occupied by the Chemical and Metallurgical departments on
North Campus. The building project will now move to the next
stage in the planning process.
Mr. Robert Forman, Executive Director of the Alumni Asso- Alumni Center
ciation and Mr. Clarence Roy of Johnson, Johnson and Roy
architectural firm presented the preliminary plans and design for
the Alumni Center.
Regent Baker remarked that it was his impression from previous conversations that the building would be unobtrusive and
would blend into the surrounding landscape. The proposed walls
around the courtyard would entirely change the openness of the
Central Campus. He also was concerned about the impact on the
surrounding buildings.
Mr. Roy commented that it was his belief that the position of
the building on the site gave balance to the Ingalls Mall at the
North end, and to the front of the Rackham building as well. He
felt that the design meets the criteria of fitting into its context
and minimizing its impact on the surrounding buildings.
Regents Laro, Nederlander, and Power expressed their concerns relating to the pedestrian concept of Ingalls Mall. They felt
this plan should receive further consideration.
Regent Dunn then moved to approve the preliminary design
and authorize the architect to proceed with working drawings.
Regent Roach seconded the motion.
Regent Baker indicated that since the plan significantly
changes the center of the campus, he moved to table the motion
for one month to reconsider the question of Ingalls Mall. Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion.
Regent Dunn then withdrew his original motion and Regent
Roach withdrew his second so that the matter would come back
at the next meeting.
At the April meeting of the Regents, Mr. Roderick Daane, Investment
General Counsel, had been asked to look into alternatives to sPolthesArica
divestiture in connection with the South African investment issue.
In response to that request, Mr. Daane indicated that as a shareholder, the University could vote responsibly on owned shares
and on resolutions offered by shareholders; attend and address
shareholder meetings; initiate shareholder resolutions either as a
co-sponsor or individually; actively solicit support for such resolutions; solicit proxies for the election of members to the Board
of Directors of the corporations; and institute under rather limited
circumstances shareholder derivated law suits. Another alternative




310


MAY MEETING, 1979


that might have some appeal was the possibility of a business
leader forum at which various leaders of companies doing business
in South Africa might convene to discuss the issue on corporate
responsibility by expressing their views. This might result in a
more sophisticated code of corporate responsibility.
Mr. Daane stated in more detail the implications of the
alternatives concluding that a great deal of staff time and fiscal
commitments would be involved. He also mentioned the complications that would evolve from withdrawal of funds from South
Africa.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff said that he had recently visited the
Vice-President for Corporate Relations of the G. D. Searle Company. Having made clear the intent of the March 1978 Regents'
resolution, he was assured that although the Company did not
adopt the Sullivan Principles per se, the principles, policies and
practices of the Searle Company were substantially the same. The
Company also agreed to report its activities to the University
on an annual basis.
The Black and Decker Company also was contacted to arrange
a further meeting on the subject. A reply from Black and Decker
indicated that although they would be happy to meet with Mr.
Brinkerhoff as a stockholder, their stance as stated in their communication of March 20, 1979 had not been changed.
M. Hood, State  President Smith then introduced State Representative Morris
Representative Hood, who represented the members of the Michigan Legislative
Black Caucus and concerned members of the Legislature.
Representative Hood stated that he had been invited by
Regent Dunn to address the Board to urge them to reconsider
their previous decision concerning divestiture of the Black and
Decker Company and the G. D. Searle Company stock. He was
pleased to hear that the Searle Company was willing basically to
adhere to the Sullivan plan, and felt it a travesty that the University would even consider involvement with a company such
as Black and Decker who would not provide statements of their
policies concerning social change in South Africa. Representative
Hood said he hoped the Regents would vote to divest stock in that
company which would signify to the people of the State of Michigan that the University was not willing to invest their money in
companies doing business in a country that practices apartheid
unless such companies are working to end such policies.
Regent Baker stated that Mr. Daane's presentation pointed
out a number of difficult areas involved in the overall problem.
The question the University faces concerns its mission, which is
research, teaching and public service. Should this mission be
expanded to an area in which the University is called upon to make




MAY MEETING, 1979


311


theological and ethical judgments? There are many evils in this
world, certainly apartheid is one. The University cannot right all
these evils. It is not the purpose of the University to be moral
judges of the activities or society in general and the business community in particular. This University is an autonomous institution
wherein the right of discussion and examination of any subject
is defended. A decision on any action should not be dictated by
other sources.
In continuing, Regent Baker said that of the two companies
which have caused some concern to the University regarding their
adherence to the Sullivan Principles, the Searle Company has
responded to further inquiry in a positive way, but Black and
Decker's response needs more clarification. He then suggested
that the issue of divestment be deferred until an actual meeting
between Mr. Brinkerhoff and officials of that company has taken
place.
Regent Dunn commented that all companies, except Black and  Divestiture of
Black and Decker
Decker, in which the University owns stock have agreed to adhere  Company Stock
to the Sullivan Principles. He said ample time has been given to
Black and Decker for compliance to the Regents resolution
adopted a year ago. He then moved the prudent divestiture of the
Black and Decker Company stock owned by the University.
Regent Power seconded the motion.
Regent Roach stated that he had been disturbed by the tenor
and substance of Black and Decker's response to the University's
inquiry last month, but wanted to know if there were alternatives
other than divestment that might influence and effect a change
of attitude. Based on Mr. Daane's report, Regent Roach said that
in view of the relatively minor nature of this one holding, he would
not be prepared to invest a substantial sum of money to achieve
this change. He was now prepared to vote affirmatively to the
motion.
Regent Power remarked that she feels it appropriate for the
University to review its responsibility and involvement in what
has become nationwide interest in the economic and social policy in
South Africa. She considers the endorsement of the Sullivan Principles the essential first plateau of responsible action, therefore, she
was ready to support the motion presented by Regent Dunn.
Regent Laro indicated that if the University is to adhere to
the policy the Regents adopted a year ago, it is necessary to affirm
the motion made by Regent Dunn. However, he feels that this
action will have no effect on the matter in South Africa which
everyone agrees needs correction, but this is not the method to
produce the desired results. Therefore, he will abstain from voting,
and should the matter present itself on a continuous basis, will




312


MAlY MEETING, 1979


make a motion in the future to amend dramatically or rescind in
total the policy.
Regent Nederlander commented that he was satisfied that the
University has done everything possible to determine this company's willingness to adhere to the Sullivan Principles. He would
now agree to divestiture not only because of failure on Black and
Decker's part to adopt these principles, but also in view of their
business practices.
Regent Brown commented that he agreed with much of what
Regent Baker said concerning the purposes of this University, but
perhaps the sort of companies in which the University owns stock
should be included. He said the Sullivan Principles stand for
human dignity in South Africa and the adoption of those or similar
principles by the companies doing business there indicates their
willingness to undertake social change. For an American company
not to adopt these principles is an affrontery to blacks in America
and to all Americans who are sympathetic to the principles of
equality and basic human rights and dignity around the world.
The University cannot ignore the fact that the Black and Decker
Company refuses to make a statement other than the "golden
rule" to deal with this particular problem in South Africa, therefore, he will support Regent Dunn's motion.
Regent Baker then read into the minutes the following letter
dated March 20, 1979 from the Black and Decker Company in
response to an inquiry by the University.
Mr. Norman G. Herbert
Investment Officer
The University of Michigan
5032 Administration Building
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109
Dear Mr. Herbert:
Further to our telephone conversation of yesterday and your letter
of March 7th, let me again reiterate our Company does not subscribe to the
Sullivan Code and does not report to Dr. Sullivan's organization as we do
not believe that the Company's policies should be dictated by, nor the Company report to, any private special interest group, regardless of the merit of
the group's objectives. Having a very small business operation in South
Africa, our Company does not have any regular reports of policies and practices to publicly disclose relative to investment policies and social responsibilities in that country, and therefore cannot comply with your request.
The policies and practices followed in South Africa are similar with those
followed in other foreign countries.
As previously explained in my letter of January 9th, we pay equal wage
rates for like jobs, and contrary to local practice, when a white vacates a
job, we do not reserve that job for a white replacement. It is Company policy
to be governed by the "Golden Rule" and we insist on treating our employees
fairly.
We trust the correspondence during the past months on the South
African issue gives you the benefit of our thinking and when presented to




MAY MEETING, 1979


313


the Regents of the University of Michigan allows them to respect our views
on this issue.
Very truly yours,
E. G. Delcher
Senior Vice President
President Smith called for the vote on Regent Dunn's motion.
The motion was adopted with Regents Baker and Laro abstaining.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the University to have
the two acres on Baxter Road appraised to determine its market
value and to authorize negotiations for sale to the City of Ann
Arbor. Regent Roach seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Baker moved authorization to proceed with the E. H.
Kraus Building renovation; the Chemistry Building ventilation
improvements; energy conservation for the School of Education
Building; and the extension of utility services to the 300-400 No.
Ingalls Buildings (former St. Joseph Mercy Hospital). Regent
Nederlander seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The Regents received a report on the University Committee
on Socially Responsible Practices.
Regent Laro moved authorization to secure financing for
The University of Michigan-Dearborn capital needs, as recommended. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the proposed procedures for
the establishment of a search committee for the chancellorship at
UM-Dearborn, as outlined below. Regent Roach seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
1. The President shall appoint an advisory commmitte charged with
the responsibility of conducting a search for a successor, and reporting to the
President and the Regents the unranked names and qualifications of at least
three qualified candidates. Care should be taken to comply fully with University affirmative action policies and procedures. It would be expected that
the Regents will conduct final interviews and make the selection in consultation with the President.
2. The committeee shall be composed of:
a. Five faculty members selected by the President from a panel of
eight names supplied by the Faculty Advisory Committee on Campus Affairs.
b. One student nominated by the Dearborn Student Council.
c. One Dearborn alumnus nominated by the Dearborn Alumni Association.
d. One member of the Dearborn Citizens Advisory Committee
selected by that Committee.
e. One administrative staff member from the Ann Arbor Campus,
and perhaps one from the Dearborn Campus.


Real Property
Renovations
University Committee on Socially
Responsible
Practices
Capital Needs,
Dearborn
Search Committee
for Chancellor,
Dearborn




314


MAY MEETING, 1979


Sec. 1.14    Regent Baker moved to approve the revised Regents' Bylaw
Bylaw Revised
to Sec. 14.06 Section 1.14, Policy on Non-Discrimnation. Regent Laro seconded
the motion and it was adopted.
Sec. 14.06 POLICY ON NON-DISCRIMINATION. The University is committed to compliance with all applicable laws regarding non-discrimination. Furthermore, it shall strive to build
a diverse community in which opportunity is equal for all persons
regardless of race, sex, color, religion, creed, national origin or
ancestry, age, marital status, handicap, or Vietnam-era veteran
status. It shall exert its leadership for the achievement of this goal
by all parties with which the University transacts business, which
it recognizes or with which students or employees of the University
are involved.
Membership    Regent Nederlander moved to approve a membership contribution to the Inter-University program     for Chinese Language
studies. Regent Laro seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Recombinant    Regent Baker moved to approve the revision of paragraph
DNA Research
Facilities 1-A-(2)-(ii) of the May 14, 1976 Regental resolution concerning
the Recombinant DNA Research Facilities. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted. The paragraph, as revised, follows.
1. Recommendations of Committee B should be approved, in particular;
A. Recombinant DNA research should go forward as long as it is
submitted to the control's described below:
(1) The guidelines prepared by the National Institutes of Health
are an acceptable basis for insuring the safety of experimentation in molecular genetics and viral oncology. Revised NIH
guidelines shall be reviewed by Committee C as they appear.
(2) Further restrictions for research at The University of Michigan
are recommended as follows:
(i) No experiments requiring containment levels above P-3
shall be permitted without approval of the Board of
Regents.
(ii) EK-1 biological containment will be used when available in all bacterial experiments requiring P-3 physical
containment.
2. The Regents direct that procedures be developed for constant monitoring and safety of the research. In addition, the Regents direct that periodic
appraisal of these review mechanisms be carried out by the University and
reported at least annually to the Board of Regents.
National    Regent Power moved to approve a subcontract with the
Institute of
Burn Medicine National Institute of Burn Medicine in the conduct of a Burn
Care Study. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Membership    Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the University to join
the Consortium   for International Fisheries and Aquaculture Development (CIFAD). Regent Waters seconded the motion and it
was adopted.




MAY MEETING, 1979


315


Regent Nederlander moved to approve the request to increase
the number of members of the Board of Governors of Clements
Library to "not exceeding twenty." Regent Laro seconded the
motion and it was adopted.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the expenditure of the
income of the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the fiscal year 1979-80, as recommended.
Regent Laro seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Waters moved to approve the establishment of a
Citizens Advisory Forum for the University's radio station
WUOM. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
Regent Nederlander moved authorization to accept the low
bid of Cadillac Asphalt Paving Company; award the construction
contract; approve the project budget, and proceed with construction of the transportation project at UM-Dearborn. Regent
Laro seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regent Roach
voting no.
Regent Dunn moved to approve membership in the National
Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for The University of
Michigan-Dearborn. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Regent Baker moved authorization to allow the Vice-President
and Chief Financial Officer to accept the lowest bid for the replacement of steam and chilled water lines at UM-Dearborn;
to proceed with the replacement; and to seek short-term project
financing. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Laro moved authorization to finance the University
Center project at UM-Flint without reliance upon earnings on
gift monies and to borrow $400,000 for seven years to be repaid
from student fees. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was
adopted with Regent Dunn voting no.
Regent Laro moved to approve the appointment of a community advisory group for the Flint public television station.
Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted.
The request to obtain a conference liquor license for The
University of Michigan-Flint was deferred.
The Regents received a report on the certification of the
Michigan Student Assembly (MSA) election.
All the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.


Clements Library
Board of
Governors
Wolfson
Endowment Funds
WUOM Citizens
Advisory Forum
Transportation
Project, Dearborn
Membership
Approved,
Dearborn
Water Lines
Replacement,
Dearborn
University
Center, Flint
Public Television
Community
Advisory Group,
FlInt
Liquor License,
Flint
MSA Certification




316


MA Y MEETING, 1979


Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of April totaled $1,230.86.
The Regents adjourned to meet June 14 and 15, 1979.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary
INDEX
Alumni Center, 309
Appointments, 292, 300; committee, 299
Burn Medicine, National Institute of, 314
Bylaw revised, Sec. 1.14 changed to 14.06, 314
Certificate of Need, hospital, 288
Clements Library, Board of Governors, 315
Dearborn: academic support services, 288; capital needs, 313; membership
approved, 315; search committee for chancellor, 313; transportation
project, contract awarded, 315; water lines replacement, 315
Degrees: lists amended, 305; honorary degrees approved, 306
Eggertsen, C. A., retirement, 300
Engineering Building II, 309
Flint: acting chancellor appointed, 308; liquor license, 315; public television
community advisory group, 315; University Center, 315
Gifts, 289
Health professions students special program, 288
Hood, M., state representative, 310
Hooper, E. T., retirement, 302
Hospital replacement, 288; Certificate of Need, 288
Hughes, L. H., retirement, 302
Investments: divestiture of Black and Decker stock, 311; policies in South
Africa, 309
Leaves of absence, 299, 300
Major Medical Health Insurance, addition of coverage, 306
Memberships approved, 314, 315
Merhab, W. G., retirement, 303
Michigan Student Assembly, certification of election, 315
Promotions, 293, 300
Real property, 306, 313
Recombinant DNA research facilities, 314
Renovations, 313
Resignations, 300
Socially Responsible Practices, University Committee on, report, 313
Vasse, W. W., appointed acting chancellor, Flint, 308
Wiley, J. H., memorial statement, 304
Wingo, G. M., retirement, 303
Wolfson Endowment Funds, 315
Women's Track Team, 287
WUOM Citizens Advisory Forum, 315




MAY MEETING, 1979


317


APPENDIX A
HONORARY DEGREES
Conferred April 28, 1979
SHIRLEY M. HUFSTEDLER, Eloquent Advocate of Justice
The career of Shirley Mount Hufstedler provides a living testimonial to
Justice Holmes's assertion that "it is possible to live greatly in the law."
Upon graduation from professional school in 1949, she embarked on a career
marked by superior achievement. In 1969, she was appointed to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and thereby became the
highest-ranking woman judge in the federal system. She is one of the most
respected of American judges, an esteem based upon her powers of thought
and articulation, her integrity and poise, and her perception of the moral
foundations upon which the rule of law ultimately rests. As one whose
judicial labors survive the most exacting professional evaluation, she serves
as an inspiring role model at a time of increasing participation by all elements
in our society in the professional life of the nation. In recognition of her past
achievements as lawyer, judge, and citizen, and in anticipation of her future
contributions to our national life, The University of Michigan confers upon
her the honorary degree Doctor of Laws.
HERBERT FRIEDMAN, Explorer of the Universe
The University of Michigan is proud to confer on Herbert Friedman the
honorary degree of Doctor of Science. We note, with equal pride, that our
sister university, Tubingen, on the occasion of her five hundredth anniversary
did likewise. He is a leader in X-ray spectroscopy and diffraction, astrophysics, nucleonics, and radio and X-ray astronomy. As a consequence of
his developing a new scientific technique, rocket-astronomy, he pioneered
the exploration of the upper atmosphere of the earth and the exploration of
the universe using X-rays, discovered the X-ray and ultra violet emission
of the Crab Nebula and its pulsar, as well as many other galactic and extragalactic X-ray sources. In these studies, he produced the first X-ray photograph of the sun.
During forty years of research, his memberships on a multitude of
government commissions, editorial boards, and scientific societies demonstrates the breadth of his service to science. His personal energy and insight
have led to half a hundred patents and over two hundred original publications, which indicate his inventiveness with instrumentation and its exploitation in pure science. Legion are the medals and citations laid upon him,
culminating in the National Medal of Science in 1969, and twice (1970 and
1978) NASA's Exceptional Scientific Achievement Award for his work at
the Naval Research Laboratory.
Galileo wrote, "Philosophy is written in this grand book-I mean the
universe-which stands continually open to our gate, but it cannot be
understood unless one first learns to comprehend the language and interpret
the characters in which it is written." Herbert Friedman has not only helped
us to "interpret these characters," he has measured them. Our humility and
pride in Herbert Friedman's presence combine as today we honor him with
the degree Doctor of Science.
ALICIA DE LARROCHA, Master of the Universal Language of Music
We who heard Sefiora de Larrocha play with the Philadelphia Orchestra
last night will treasure for the rest of our lives the aesthetic fusion of beatuti



318                  MAY MEETING, 1979
ful musicianship and elegant pianism. Born in Barcelona, where she studied
with Frank Marshall, she was wisely encouraged by her teacher to master the
entire European repertoire of classics before she became the world's leading
interpreter of Spain's great piano music, especially that of Granados and
Albeniz.
An indomitable spirit, Sefiora de Larrocha, together with her husband,
Juan Torra, has directed the Marshall Piano Academy of Barcelona, reared
two children, and was named musician of the year in 1978 by the publication
Musical America.
She has been hailed in concerts all over the world, and many times in
Ann Arbor, and is one of the most recorded artists living today. Twice she
has been given the Grammy Award for her recordings; she is also the recipient of the Paderewski Medal, the Grand Prix du Disque, the first gold
medal of the Merito a la Vocacion; and is a member of the order of Civil
Merit of Spain and of Isabel la Catolica.
On this occasion of the one hundredth anniversary of our School of
Music and The University Musical Society, The University of Michigan
appropriately chooses to honor with the degree Doctor of Music Sefiora Alicia
de Larrocha for the passion, beauty, and authority of her performance.




JUNE MEETING, 1979
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
ANN ARBOR
THURSDAY, JUNE 14, 1979
The Regents met at 1:00 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Power, Roach and Waters. Chancellors Goodall
and Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present.
President Smith remarked that this was the last meeting Judy  J. Phair
Phair, Editor for Internal Communications, would be reporting  Commended
for the University Record. He commended her for a job well done
and wished her well as she and her husband relocated in the East.
Mr. A. B. Hicks, Director of University Audits, reviewed the  Internal Audit
Report
six-month internal audit and responded to several questions concerning billing and documentation procedures.
In response to a question concerning follow-up procedures,
Mr. Hicks indicated that if the unit response to the audit recommendations was satisfactory, no further follow-up action was
taken. On the other hand, an additional audit would be scheduled
in cases where there were serious problems.
Vice-President Shapiro indicated that his office contacted all
academic units that might appear in the audit report to assure
implementation of the recommendations.
With respect to the vending machines, Mr. Hicks said that
these are owned by concessionaires. The audit department conducts an overall evaluation by studying historical data. The audit
department also recommends an audit of the vendor's books which
is generally allowed in the contracts.
Regent Roach moved to receive the six-month internal audit
report. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was adopted.
President Smith reviewed the progress of the Hospital replace- Hospital
ment project. He indicated that discussion with the Michigan  Replment
Department of Public Health has continued. The MDPH mentioned some of the stipulations that will be imposed at the time
the Certificate of Need is granted. These include a reduction in the
number of beds from 923 to 900, statements showing fiscal feasibility and staffing feasibility. The representative from the Depart319




320


JUNE MEETING, 1979


ment of Public Health has appeared before the Comprehensive
Health Planning Council of Southeastern Michigan (CHPC-SEM)
in Detroit to apprise them of these discussions. The regional
planning agency indicated that the whole project should be
referred back to them. The MDPH has said that the regional
agency is an advisory group and the final decision should be made
in Lansing. There remains to be resolved the overall cost of the
project. The University has indicated certain reductions that could
be made in the total cost of the project if the 23 beds were
eliminated.
The Michigan Department of Public Health will shortly draft
a proposed letter which would grant the Certificate of Need and
identify the conditions that would be attached to the grant. A
draft copy of the proposed letter will be sent to the University
and to the Detroit regional agency for review and comment. The
University will not know, however, what action the regional group
will take before the final letter awarding the Certificate of Need
is received.
It has been suggested by the Michigan Department of Public
Health that the University request an additional thirty-day extension to handle further negotiations for the Certificate of Need,
therefore, he recommended the University do so.
President Smith continued saying that there has been criticism
by the regional group that the planning process has been circumvented for this particular application. He said this is absolutely
an incorrect assumption. The University has followed the procedures of the planning process meticulously at the local, regional,
and state level and does not want to be involved in any action
which undercuts the validity of the planning process, or the
validity of the role of the regional planning agency. Therefore,
every opportunity should be given the regional office to comment
on the proposal and its standing prior to the final award of the
Certificate.
The building division members of the Department of Management and Budget have indicated their willingness to start the
programmatic review of the project in advance of the award of
the Certificate of Need to expedite the project.
Regent Baker commented that a genuine need for the hospital
replacement has been established by the medical accrediting group
and by various public groups, and the implication that a political
effort was involved is entirely incorrect. It should be underscored
that only the proposed size of the hospital has been in question.
A visit to the Hospital will point out the state-wide nature of the
facility for you will find patients who have been referred to




JUNE MEETING, 1979


321


University Hospital by physicians throughout the State for the
treatment of critical and difficult cases.
Regent Baker then moved authorization to request a thirty-  Certificate of
Need, Extension
day extension for the filing of the application for the Certificate  Approved
of Need. Regent Laro seconded the motion and is was adopted.
In view of the adverse publicity the replacement hospital has
received on certain television newscasts, Regent Roach suggested
that the University undertake a rather agressive policy to present
the true facts to the public. The development of the project has
been very carefully studied and planned over the last few years
and implications that the University is politicizing it are erroneous.
President Smith indicated that since the State will be substantially funding the hospital project, the University is following
simultaneously the process required by the Legislature. He also
noted that a study recently completed by the Michigan Department of Public Health indicates that the service area in which
University Hospital is located is not overbedded even with our
present licensure and will clearly not be overbedded with the
number now authorized.
Vice-President Shapiro reviewed the 1978-79 and 1979-80  Budget for
1978-79 and
general fund budget for the Ann Arbor campus. He said that 197980 Report
despite the fact that the 1978-79 year started with a substantial
deficit, it was fully expected that the budget would be in balance
and without a deficit at the end of the fiscal year.
With respect to the 1979-80 budget, the Regents' resolution
to adhere to President Carter's wage-price guidelines and the
anticipated tuition revenue has made possible a modification in
the initial budget request to the State. The Governor's recommended budget for the Ann Arbor campus, however, will not meet
the University's minimal needs. If there is no relief from the
Senate appropriations committee, the University will have to
consider alternatives such as raising tuition schedules, modifying
the salary program, lowering increases for non-salary items, and
phasing down and/or eliminating certain programs. Dr. Shapiro
also noted that instructional equipment, plant renovation, and
book acquisitions have been inadequately funded in recent years
and can no longer be deprived of funds.
Regent Powere commented that the University is an institution
of exceptional excellence, but is being jeopardized by inadequate
funding. A concerted effort by the Regents must be made to
present the needs of the University to maintain its quality
programs.
Regent Roach indicated that none of the alternatives were
acceptable. In order to maintain and enhance the excellence of the




322                 JUNE MEETING, 1979
University in times of adverse budget, probably the most acceptable alternative was phasing down or elimination of certain
programs which takes enormous planning.
Vice-President Shapiro indicated tthat phasing down a program
which involves changes in staffing is a slow and difficult process.
I. MINUTES
The minutes of the meeting of April 19 and 20, 1979 and
May 17 and 18, 1979 were approved as amended by Regent Power.
II. REPORTS
Vice-President Brinkerhoff placed on file his monthly reports
on investment transactions, temporary investments, plant extension, litigation and personnel-labor relations.
Vice-President Overberger filed a listing of grants and contracts
for research.
Vice-President Radock filed his monthly report on the Office
of University Relations and Development.
III. GIFTS AND GRANTS
Gifts    Vice-President Brinkerhoff reported gifts from    the following
sources. They were received with thanks and in accord with their
terms and conditions:
Alcoa Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the Physical
Stress  Research  fund...................................$  15,000.00
American Cancer Society, Inc., New York, New York, for the
American Cancer Society funds..........................  23,048.00
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas, for the American
Heart Association funds................................  21,505.00
Anonymus Donors, for the History of Art, Medieval Studies fund  15,000.00
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Dearborn, for the Michigan Chapter, Arthritis Foundation funds.................  6,541.65
Bendix Corporation, Southfield, for the Electrical and Computer
Engineering Special fund................................  10,000.00
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, for the Law
School Capital Campaign-Unrestricted fund...............  5,000.00
Mrs. George G. Cameron, Ann Arbor, for the following funds:
Center for Continuing Education of Women-Student Financial Aid  fund..........................................  10,000.00
Kelsey Museum Associates fund.........................  1,000.00
Museum of Art fund...................................  10,000.00
Colt Industries Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New
York, for the Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering
Building fund..........................................  5,000.00
Consumers Power Company, Jackson, for the Consumers Power
Company-Jacobsen/Cornish fund........................ 35,000.00
Ford Foundation, New York, New York, for the Ford Foundation-Simmons  fund.....................................  8,860.00




JUNE MEETING, 1979                         323
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn, for the following funds:
Athletic Scholarships fund...............................  1,200.00
Burn  Center Capital fund...............................  5,000.00
Business School fund...................................  1,260.00
Henry M. Campbell Memorial Prize fund................    100.00
Dearborn Campus Annual fund..........................    665.00
Dearborn  Campus  fund.................................  100.00
Dearborn Campus Ice Hockey Magazine fund.............    50.00
Dearborn Campus-Manufacturing Engineering Degree Program   fund.............................................  115,000.00
School of Dentistry fund................................  100.00
Diabetes Research fund................................  150.00
School of Education fund...............................  200.00
School of Education-Memorial Tribute fund..............   50.00
College of Engineering fund.............................  1,565.00
Engineering  Building  Gifts  fund..........................  100.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Endowed Chairs fund......    10.00
Engineering Capital Campaign-Undesignated fund........  1,865.00
Fair Lane Music Guild fund.............................  100.00
Fair Lane Rehabilitation fund..........................   50.00
Industrial Engineering Gift fund........................  100.00
Law School fund......................................   350.00
College of Literature, Science and the Arts fund..........  220.00
Multiple Sclerosis Research fund........................  200.00
Museum    of Art fund...................................  125.00
School of Music Scholarships fund.......................  200.00
F. Ernest Newbery fund................................   100.00
School of Nursing  fund.................................  310.00
Paton Center for Accounting funds......................   10.00
D. M. Phelps  fund.....................................  10.00
Physics Faculty and Alumni fund.......................   200.00
President's  fund.......................................  1,000.00
Public Health Alumni fund..............................  135.00
Radrick Farms Golf Course fund........................   100.00
Residential College fund................................  25.00
School of Social Work fund.............................  520.00
Ukrainian  Studies  fund.................................  225.00
University Musical Society fund.........................  130.00
Unrestricted  fund......................................  75.00
Vital Margin fund.....................................  3,830.00
Virginia Wilson Physical Therapy fund..................   50.00
W UOM    fund..........................................  1,330.00
INCO Limited, New York, New York, for the High Temperature
Metallurgy Research-Pehlke fund.......................  6,000.00
Marion Laboratories, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, for the following funds:
Antimicrobial Studies-Loesche fund.....................  1,200.00
To establish the Marion Laboratories Educational fund.... 10,000.00
Agnes C. McKay Estate, for the Frank D. and Agnes C. McKay
Medical Research fund................................. 19,889.64
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York, for the
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation-Fader fund............... 100,000.00
Marck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey; for the Hypertension Research fund..................................  18,000.00
Michigan Heart Association, Southfield, for the Michigan Heart
Association funds:..................................... 68,121.00
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint, for the Mott Foundation-Echo Program Support fund..................... 115.000.00




324


JUNE MEETING, 1979


Lucy M. Murphy Estate, To establish the Lucy M. Murphy
Engineering Scholarship fund............................  5,000.00
Ralph Murphy Estate, To establish the Ralph Murphy Engineering  Scholarship  fund....................................  5,000.00
Pennwalt Corporation, Pharmaceutical Division, Rochester, New
York, for the Anesthesia Research fund..................  5,000.00
Harriet P. Petry Estate, Pending Designation fund............  7,971.97
Pfizer, Incorporated, Groton, Connecticut, for the Pfizer, Inc.,
Fellowship in Pharmacy fund...........................   6,000.00
Howard W. Schneider Estate, for the Howard W. Schneider fund  68,628.88
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York, for the Alfred
P. Sloan Foundation-Burns fund........................   9,900.00
Texaco, Incorporated, New York, New York, for the following
funds:
Business Administration-Texaco fund....................  5,000.00
Vital Margin fund.....................................    200.00
William B. Thompson Estate, for the Unrestricted fund........ 10,000.00
Universal-Cyclops Specialty Steel Division of Cyclops Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. for the High Temprature
Metallurgy Research-Pehlke fund........................  6,000.00
Warner-Lambert Company, Morris Plains, New Jersey, for the
following funds:
Anesthesia  Research  fund...............................  1,275.00
President's  fund....................................  1,430.00
Rackham Arthritis Research fund.......................   2,500.00
Warner-Lambert Foundation, Morris Plains, New Jersey, for the
following funds:
Antimicrobial Studies- Loesche fund.....................  8,000.00
To establish the Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Fellowship
fund..................................................  12,500.00
Rosina M. Wolfson Estate, for the Marguerite and Julian Wolfson-  Law   School fund..................................  6,000.00
The following monetary, noncash gifts were received:
John D. Coon Estate. Genearl Motors Corporation, American
Telephone & Telegraph Company, common stocks; and
Northern State Power, Southern California Edison and Philadelphia Electric Company, preferred stocks-for the Ernest
Fay  Coon  Medical fund................................. 228,824.81
Mary M. Ketchum Estate. Proceeds from the sale of United
States Savings Bonds, Series E for the Mary M. Ketchum
Memorial fund.........................................  9,722.44
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation,     Ann Arbor. Dow
Chemical Company, common stock, for Engineering Building
Gifts  fund.............................................  179,780.63
Mrs. Harry A. Towsley, Ann Arbor. Dow Chemical Company, common stock, for the Center for Continuing Education of
Women-Student Financial Aid fund...................... 11,025.00
Dr. Hans W. Vahlteich, Fort Lee, New Jersey. Pacific Petroleums,
Ltd., common stock, divided as follows:
College  of Pharmacy  fund..............................  5,639.19
Hans W. Vahlteich Research fund........................  5,639.19
The following nonmonetary, noncash gifts were received:
Darinka Briggs, Ann Arbor. A painting entitled: "Mediterranean,"
by Darinka Briggs; for the Institute for the Study of Mental
Retardation and Related Disabilities
Arthur W. Burks, Ann Arbor. Volumes I-IV of a book entitled:
The New Elements of Mathematics by Charles S. Pierce,
edited by Carolyn Eisele; for the Tanner Philosophy Library




JUNE MEETING, 1979                         325
Burroughs Corporation, Detroit. New data processing equipment
consisting of a B1825 system, a printer, a mag tape unit, and
a control unit; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus, Department of Computer Science
James Carr, Flint. Ten hardbound and two paperback books, on
the subject of law; for The University of Michigan-Flint
Campus Library
Lawrence Covitz, Flint. Six Flint Home Furnishing Company
ledgers, dating from about 1918; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Prof. Penelope D. Eckert, Ann Arbor. Three books; for the
Mischa Titiev Library
Kenneth J. Gembel, Clio. Twelve books; for The University of
Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs, Colorado. One
Logic State Analyzer and associated equipment; for the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
Mrs. Virginia S. Jeffrey, Grosse Pointe Woods. A watercolor
painting, a ceramic hanging plate and a small framed print;
for the School of Nursing
Frank B. Livingstone, Ann Arbor. A book entitled: Morris'
Human Anatomy, edited by J. P. Schaeffer; for the Mischa
Titiev Library
Dr. K. Gerald Marsden, Ann Arbor. Volumes 33-35 and 39-58 of
Psychological Abstracts; for the Department of Psychology
Mr. & Mrs. Daniel E. Martin, Ypsilanti. Eighty-two issues of the
Journal of the American Speech G& Hearing Association, and
thirty-two books, by various authors, on the subject of special
education; for the Department of Speech and Hearing
Sciences
Prof. Roy A. Rappaport, Ann Arbor. Two special issues of, Journal
of the Anthropological Society of Oxford, Volume I, and four
books; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Dr. Daniel J. Scheans, Portland, Oregon. Approximately 3000 prehistoric stone artifacts from Buad Island, Samar, Central
Philippines; for the Museum of Anthropology
Raymond Schwyn, Au Gres. Thirteen books; for The University
of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Dean Joan S. Stark, Ann Arbor. An egg incubator; for the School
of Education
Ronald Lewis Stuckey, Columbus, Ohio. Three books: Scientific
Publications of Charles W. Short, Development of Botany in
North America Before 1900, and Essay on North American
Plant Geography; for The University of Michigan Herbarium
Mrs. Estelle Titiev, Ann Arbor. Three issues of The American
Anthropologist, Volume 80; for the Mischa Titiev Library
Transcendental Books, Hartford, Connecticut. Seven books; for
The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Dr. Joan Wilce, Amherst, Massachusetts. Eight Maps, dated from
1700 to 1796; for the Clements Library
Mrs. Thomas Wilson, Flint. A book entitled: The Poems of John
Marston, by Arnold Davenport; for The University of Michigan-Flint Campus Library
Dr. Karl L. Zinn, South Lyon. A Texas Instruments programmable calculator with application packages in statistics,
aviation and business; and a PC-100A printer; for the Center
for Research on Learning and Teaching




326


JUNE MEETING, 1979


Personnel Actions
Appointments


IV. PERSONNEL ACTIONS
NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
Lawrence Brockway, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Fall Term, 1979
Hatem Ahmed Elayat, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Industrial Systems
Engineering, without tenure, UM-Dearborn
Frank Huntley, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Fall Term, 1979
Kenneth Jones, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Fall Term, 1979
Daniel Katz, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Fall Term, 1979
Paul Franz Nowak, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, without tenure, and Director of Continuing Education
Scott G. Paris, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, August 1, 1979
Orsamus Pearl, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Fall Term, 1979
James E. Rasmussen, M.D., Associate Professor of Dermatology, with tenure,
July 1, 1979
Edward Stasheff, Professor Emeritus, appointed to teach in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Fall Term 1979


Promotions, etc. CHANGES IN STATUS OF MEMBERS ON INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on dates indicated
Robert W. Bailey, from Professor of Surgery to Clinical Professor of Surgery,
with tenure, July 1, 1979
Percy Bates, Professor of Education, reappointed Assistant Dean for Service
and Institutional Relations, School of Education, July 1, 1979, for one
year
Frederick W. Bertolaet, Professor of Education, reappointed Associate Dean,
School of Education, July 1, 1979 to December 31, 1979
Sylvia Coolidge, from Acting Administrator to Administrator of Mott
Children's, Women's and Holden Perinatal Hospitals, June 15, 1979
William M. Cruickshank, Professor of Maternal and Child Health, School of
Public Health, Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, and Professor of Education, School of Education, reappointed Director of the Institute for the Study of Mental Retardation and Related Disabilities, July 1, 1979 to August 30, 1980
Inta J. Ertel, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, awarded
tenure, Jully 1, 1979
Alexander Z. Guiora, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed
Professor of Linguistics, without tenure, September 1, 1979
William Albert Hiltner, Professor of Astronomy, reappointed Chairman of
the Department of Astronomy, July 1, 1979
Lewis J. Kleinsmith, Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, September 1, 1979 for
a five-year term
Marvin W. Peterson, Professor of Education, reappointed Director, Center
for the Study of Higher Education, July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1982




JUNE MEETING, 1979


327


Charles F. Yocum, Professor of Biological Sciences, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, September 1, 1979 for
a five-year term
The Regents approved the establishment of a departmental
professorship to be named the Joe Lee Davis Professorship in
American Culture and the appointment of Professor Marvin Feldheim to that position.
The Regents approved the establishment of a departmental
professorship to be named the Roderick D. McKenzie Professorship in Sociology and the appointment of Professor Ronald Freedman to that position.
The Regents approved the establishment of an Associate Deanship for the School of Music and approved the appointment of
Professor Lawrence P. Hurst to this position for a two-year term,
effective July 1, 1979.
The Regents approved the appointment of Professor Willis C.
Patterson as Associate Dean of the School of Music for a threeyear term, effective July 1, 1979.
The Regents approved the recommendation to grant Allen P.
Britton the title Dean Emeritus of the School of Music and
approved his request for an administrative leave of absence.
The Regents approved the membership applications to the
Medical Staff of the University Hospital.
The Regents approved extensions of leaves of absence, without
salary for Gwendolyn C. Baker, Associate Professor of Education
and Joel D. Aberbach, Professor of Political Science.
The following committee appointments were approved:
College of Architecture and Urban Planning Executive Committee
Professor S. Glen Paulsen, for a two-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1981, vice Professor Henry S. Kowalewski, term expired
Professor Robert M. Darvas, for a two-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1981, vice Professor Katharine P. Warner, term expired
University Committee on Broadcasting
Professor Charles B. Cartwright, to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1982
Professor Theophilus S. Lynch, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Professor Hansford W. Farris, term expired
School of Business Administration Executive Committee
Professor Harold Arnett, for a two-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1981,
vice Professor James T. Godfrey, term expired
Professor W. Allen Spivey, for a two-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1981, vice Professor Herbert W. Hildebrandt, term expired


Departmental
Professorships
Established
Associate Deanship, School of
Music, Established
and L. P. Hurst
Appointed
W. C. Patterson
Appointed Associate Dean, Music
A. P. Britton
Named Dean
Emeritus
Medical Staff
Application
Approved
Leave of Absence
Committee
Appointment




328


JUNE MEETING, 1979


Computing Center Executive Committee
Professor Martha L. Ludwig, to succeed herself, for a three-year term, July 1,
1979 to June 30, 1982
Professor Arch W. Naylor, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1,
1979 to June 30, 1982
Martha Cook Building Board of Governors
Mrs. Carrie Wismer Peebles, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Mrs. Veronica Latta Smith, term expired
Highway Safety Research Institute Executive Committee
Professor Richard G. Cornell, to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1982
Professor Donald F. Huelke, to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1982
Dr. John W. Melvin, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1982,
vice Professor Richard G. Snyder, term expired
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Professor Harriet M. Braunstein, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to
June 30, 1982, vice Professor Norma J. Diamond, term expired
Professor Philip H. Peter, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Professor Willis C. Patterson, term expired
Michigan Memorial-Phoenix Project Executive Committee
Professor Thomas J. Anton, for a four-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1983, vice Professor James N. Morgan, term expired
Professor Samuel D. Estep, to succeed himself, for a four-year term, July 1,
1979 to June 30, 1983
Committee on Military Officer Education Programs
Professor Rasin Tek, to succeed himself, for a four-year term, July 1, 1979
to June 30, 1983
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Professor Arlene Hegedus, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Professor Janice Lindberg, term expired
Professor Philip Kalisch, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30,
1982, vice Professor Joyce Sodergren, term expired
The University of Michigan Press Executive Committee
Professor Peter Duren, for a three-year term, September 1, 1979 to August 31,
1982, vice Professor Thomas Dunn, term expired
Professor Joseph Vining, for a three-year term, September 1, 1979 to
August 31, 1982, vice Professor Carl Proffer, term expired
Institute of Science and Technology Executive Committee
Professor William R. Dawson, to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1979 through June 30, 1982
Professor Paul G. Rasmussen, to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1979 through June 30, 1982
Professor Gregory S. Yeh, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1,
1979 through June 30, 1982




JUNE MEETING, 1979


329


Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Dean Joan S. Stark, for a three-year term, July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1982,
vice Dr. Beverly C. Payne, term expired
Professor Jack L. Walker, to succeed himself, for a three-year term, July 1,
1979 to June 30, 1982
Dean Gilbert R. Whitaker, Jr., to succeed himself, for a three-year term,
July 1, 1979 to June 30, 1982
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the appointment of   Board in Control
of Intercollegiate
William M. Mazur, Jr. as the alumni member to the Board in   Athletics
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics for a three-year term, effective  Appointments
June 1, 1979 to May 31, 1982, vice Roger Zatkoff, term expired;
and to approve the faculty members as recommended. Regent
Power seconded the motion.
Discussion followed concerning the absence of women nominees
for both the faculty and student membership to the Board in
Control of Intercollegiate Athletics.
Regent Power indicated that the University is committed to
affirmative action and she was concerned that no woman student
would be represented on this Board. She suggested that action
be deferred until a panel of candidates could be recommended that
would include women.
Vice-President Johnson commented that these appointments
are recommended by Michigan Student Assembly through their
process, and on inquiry learned that these were the only two candidates that surfaced.
Regent Brown felt that the ratio of women to men members
on the Board should be greater. He said athletics is currently an
important area in which both men and women have a great deal
of interest. If the recommendations of the faculty representatives
are approved, there will be one less woman than last year.
Regent Roach said he was very much opposed to setting
quotas for this or any other appointment on campus. It should be
determined, however, if SACUA, in making its recommendations,
used proper affirmative action measures to see that women candidates surfaced.
Regent Nederlander then moved to approve the committee
appointment recommendations with the exception of the faculty
and student representatives to the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics. Regent Dunn seconded the motion and it was
adopted.
In explaining the process by which SACUA recommendations
are made, Professor Arch Naylor, Vice-Chairman, said that a
letter is sent to the entire faculty early in the year asking for




330


JUNE MEETING, 1979


volunteers or nominations for a long list of committees, SACUA
then meets to consider these names for various committees. There
are more men than women faculty members on campus and this
puts a considerable burden on the women because they are approached to serve on a number of committees.
Regent Baker indicated that it was his view that there is danger
of damaging the process if the Regents begin challenging faculty
and administration recommendations. He said he is supportive of
both and felt it was inappropriate to delay the matter. He then
moved to approve the student and faculty representatives to the
Board in Control, as recommended. Regent Laro seconded the
motion.
Regent Waters indicated that approval of the recommendations
should be deferred a month so that SACUA can report on. their
selection process and to determine the availability of other women
who would be willing to serve on the Board.
Regent Nederlander moved to table the faculty and student
appointments to the Board in Control of Intercollegiate Athletics
for one month. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was
adopted with Regent Baker voting no.
V. PERSONNEL REPORTS
Personnel Reports  The following personnel reports were received by the Regents:
Appointments      NEW APPOINTMENTS TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on dates indicated
Susan H. Carron, D.D.S., Lecturer in Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Judith C. Moyer, M.S.N., Instructor in Nursing, May 14, 1979
Michael G. Rosenweig, J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, May 31, 1979
Supplemental Staff
John C. Alderson, Ph.D., Visiting Lecturer in English Language Institute,
May 1, 1979
Michael H. Burnstein, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry, February 1,
1979
Robert W. Hostetler, D.D.S., Clinical Instructor in Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Orrie D. Jones, B.S., Adjunct Lecturer at The University of Michigan-Flint,
May 1, 1979
James K. McFadden, D.D.S., Clinical Instructor in Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Michael S. Myslobodsky, Ph.D., Visiting Professor of Psychology, May 1,
1979
Robert S. Pasick, Ph.D., Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry, January 1, 1979
M. Harry Piper, J.D., Adjunct Instructor of Management, The University
of Michigan-Flint, May 1, 1979
Anthony Szyndlar, D.D.S., Clinical Instructor in Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Roberta C. Taylor, D.D.S., Clinical Instructor in Dentistry, May 21, 1979
Anita K. Wesler, M.F.A., Adjunct Lecturer in Art, May 1, 1979




JUNE MEETING, 1979


331


TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF MEMBERS                       Resignations
Effective May 31, 1979 unless otherwise indicated
Professor
Park W. Willis, III, Internal Medicine, March 31, 1979
Assistant Professor
Diane C. Bennett, English Language
Linda C. Cronenwett, Nursing
Jeffrey A. Frankel, Economics
Signorino Galvagno, Chemical Engineering
Edward A. Kirtley, Law
William S. Krasker, Economics
Janet G. Malinowski, Nursing
Louis J. Rusin, Dermatology, June 30, 1979
Jeffrey D. Wicks, Radiology, June 15, 1979
Clinical Instructor
Ronald M. Biedron, Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Jonathan M. Chadiha, Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Clare R. Coles, Pharmacy, April 30, 1979
Steven C. Olsen, Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Byron C. Opstad, Pharmacy, April 30, 1979
Thomas A. Slade, Dentistry, April 30, 1979
Two off-campus assignments, two administrative leaves, one Leaves of Absence
sabbatical leave, two extended sick leaves, one disability leave, and
one leave of absence without salary were reported to the Regents.
VI. RETIREMENT MEMOIRS
Secretary Kennedy reported the retirement of five faculty
members. The following memoirs were adopted.
VIRGIL M. BETT, Profesor of Economics, has retired from     active  v. M. Bett
faculty status as of May 31, 1979, after a most productive career as a  Retirement
teacher, adviser and scholar.
Dr. Bett received his B.A. degree from Drake University in 1942. He
received the M.A. degree in 1947, and the Ph.D. degree in 1956 from the
University of Wisconsin. He has held teaching appointments at Oregon State
College and the School of Business Administration at The University of
Michigan. He was appointed Associate Professor of Economics at The
University of Michigan-Flint in 1959, and was promoted to Professor in
1966. He has served with distinction as the Chairman of the Department
of Economics, and was instrumental in building the department to its
present strength.
Professor Bett has been active in University affairs, having served on
the Executive, Academic Standards, Code and Governance, Admissions, and
Curriculum committees. He has been one of the primary architects of academic policies at The University of Michigan-Flint.
The Regents now salute this distinguished professor of economics for
his dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Economics.
JOHN CAROW, Professor of Natural Resources has retired from active J. Carow
faculty status as of May 31, 1979, after a productive career as a teacher,  Retireme't
administrator and counselor.




332


JUNE MEETING, 1979


Professor Carow earned a BSF in 1937 and MF in 1938 from The
University of Michigan. He joined the faculty of the School of Natural
Resources in 1947. During his 32 years here he taught forest mensuration,
timber harvesting, air photo interpretation, and forest management. For
21 years he directed Camp Filibert Roth and was involved in managing
the School's Forest Properties.
He has been an active member of the Society of American Foresters
since 1937. He has served as Chairman of the Lower Michigan Chapter
(1962), Chairman of the Wisconsin-Michigan Section (1973-75), Chairman
of the National Division of Education (1958), Deputy Chairman of the 1965
National Meeting in Detroit, as well as serving on various committees. In
1976 John was elected a Fellow of SAF and was given the Distinguished
Service Award by the Lower Michigan Chapter. He has served as SNR
Alumni Secretary since 1965, and plans to continue in this capacity after
his retirement.
The Regents now salute John Carow for his dedicated service by naming
him Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources.
G. R. Garrison,    GARNET R. GARRISON, Professor of Speech Communication and
Retirement Theatre, has retired from the active faculty as of May 31, 1979 after a
distinguished career as a teacher, administrator and broadcaster.
Professor Garrison received his B.A. degree from Wayne University in
1933 and his M.A. from The University of Michigan in 1936. While an undergraduate at Wayne, he began his career as a broadcaster and worked for a
number of radio stations in the Detroit area. In 1936 he was invited to join
the Wayne faculty as the institution's first teacher of courses in broadcasting.
In that period he also developed a system of audience measurement utilizing
diaries, a technique that is now widely used in the radio and television
industry. He left Wayne in 1942 to join the National Broadcasting Company
as a director and program administrator.
Professor Garrison became an associate professor on the Michigan faculty
in 1947 and was advanced to professor in 1950. In that same year he became
the Director of Television for the University and later became the Director
of Broadcasting. He left that position in 1972 to return to full-time teaching
in the department.
To both his teaching and administrative functions Professor Garrison
brought great vigor and creativity. His work did much to foster and develop
the curriculum in broadcasting and his activities as the director of television
broadcasting activities made Michigan a leader in the field.
On the national scene Professor Garrison served the Speech Association
of America as a member of its Executive Council; and a book he co-authored
in 1950, which is now in its fifth edition, has made his name known throughout the country.
The Regents now salute this pioneering educator and innovator in the
broadcasting field for his distinguished service by naming him Professor
Emeritus of Speech Communication and Theatre.
L. L. Okey      L. LAMONT OKEY, Professor of Speech Communication and Theatre,
Retirement has retired from the active faculty as of May 31, 1979, after a distinguished
career as a teacher, writer and national leader in the field of oral interpretation.
Professor Okey received his B.A. degree from Cornell College in 1940
and after serving as a high-school teacher and in the U.S. Navy during World
War II, he came to The University of Michigan where he earned his M.A.
in 1946 and his Ph.D. in 1951. He joined the Michigan faculty in 1947 as a
lecturer, advancing to instructor in 1948 to assistant professor in 1953, to
associate professor in 1960, and to professor in 1964.
Professor Okey, one of the department's most popular teachers, also




JUNE MEETING, 1979                         333
served as a counselor to both undergraduate and graduate students, being
member and chairman of many dissertation committees, and as chairman
of the oral interpretation committee of the department. He was active in
state, regional and national associations and carried out a number of functions
for the Oral Interpretation Interest Group of the Speech Association of
America, among them that of chairman in 1957-58. Two of the books he
co-authored have been widely used in universities throughout the country.
For his contributions to the field he was honored in 1971 by the Michigan
Speech Association with a Distinguished Service Citation and an honorary
Life Membership.
Professor Okey was not only an outstanding teacher of oral interpretation, he was also a skilled performer of that art. His services as a reader
and speaker were in great demand by groups throughout the state and in
other parts of the country.
The Regents now salute this distinguished educator for his noteworthy
contributions to his field by naming him Professor Emeritus of Speech
Communication and Theatre.
GUSTAVE ROSSEELS, Professor of Music, has retired from active    G. Rosseels
faculty status as of May 31, 1979, after a distinguished career as violinist  Retirement
and teacher.
Known to Ann Arbor music audiences as a member of the Stanley
Quartet and the Baroque Trio, Rosseels was also a member of the Paganini
Quartet for 11 years before joining The University of Michigan faculty.
First appointed as Lecturer in Violin and Chamber Music and Second
Violinist of the Stanley Quartet in 1957, he was promoted to Associate Professor in 1959 and to Professor in 1962.
A native of Malines, Belgium, he graduated with a degree in chamber
music and violin from the Royal Conservatory of Music in Brussels and later
served on that faculty. After a career in Europe as first violinist of the
Pro Nova Quartet, he came to the United States in 1946 to join the newlyformed Paganini Quartet. On that voyage, he traveled with his lifelong
friend Robert Courte, who was to be the violist of the Paganini and, later,
of the UM Stanley Quartet. As a member of the Paganini Quartet, Rosseels
made several recordings and performed more than 1,200 concerts in the
United States, Europe, and South America.
Last year he received one of the highest faculty awards which the
School of Music confers: the 1978 Harold Haugh Award for outstanding
excellence in private studio teaching. In addition to his appearances with the
Stanley Quartet and the Baroque Trio, Rosseels has perfomed frequently as
soloist and in sonata recitals in Ann Arbor and elsewhere. His repertory
included not only classical and romantic works but many contemporary
compositions, several of which were dedicated to him and first performed
in Ann Arbor.
Rosseels is listed in Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians, Who's
Who in the Midwest, the International Who's Who in Music, and Men of
Achievement.
The Regents now salute this distinguished artist and teacher for his
dedicated service by naming him Professor Emeritus of Music.
VII. DEATHS
Secretary Kennedy reported to the Regents the death of Louis
I. Briggs, Jr., Professor of Geology and Mineralogy. The following
memorial statement was adopted.
It is with deep regret that the Regents learned of the death of LOUIS  L. I. Briggs,
I. BRIGGS, Professor of Geology and Mineralogy, on May 15, 1979 after a  Memorial
Statement




334


JUNE MEETING, 1979


prolonged illness. With his passing The University of Michigan has lost a
brilliant scholar in earth science and a loyal citizen of the faculty community.
Born in 1921 in Los Angeles, he received his B.A. in 1943 from Fresno
State College. He served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy in the Pacific
theater during the years 1943-46 and returned for graduate studies to the
University of California, Berkeley, where he received his Ph.D. degree in
geology in 1950. He joined The University of Michigan as an instructor in
1950, rising through the ranks to Professor in 1961 and serving in 1958-79
as Director of the Subsurface Laboratory in the Department of Geology and
Mineralogy. Professor Briggs was in his element when working closely with
individual students in research and in his 29 years at Michigan he directed
18 Ph.D. and 64 M.S. thesis projects.
The author of several books and numerous scientific articles, Professor
Briggs was internationally recognized as an authority on the origin of
evaporite deposits, the regional geology of the southern Rocky Mountains,
and the application of mathematics and computer sciences to both theoretical
and applied stratigraphic systems analysis. In later years, combining his
talents as mathematician and geologist, he pursued pioneering studies in the
theory and applications of information systems, developing for the Subsurface Laboratory a system of document analysis and data retrieval that
was the first kind in the field of geology.
Professor Briggs was a Fellow of the Geological Society of America and
the American Association for the Advancement of Science as well as a
member of numerous other professional organizations. Among his many
professional activities, he had served as President of the Michigan Basin
Geological Society, Chairman of the Michigan Well Data System, Chairman
of the Committee on Disposal of Radioactive Wastes in the Michigan Basin
of the Atomic Energy Commission, and Co-chairman of the Documentation
System of the Society of Economic Paleontology and Mineralogy. He was a
Visiting Professor at several universities including Louisiana State University
from 1967 to 1968 and the University of Montana in 1976.
The Regents join his colleagues in the Department of Geology and
Mineralogy and former students around the world in extending deepest
sympathies to his family.
VIII. DEGREES
Degree List   On recommendation of the proper faculty, the Regents apAmended  proved the following amendment to the degree list:
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies
Doctor of Philosophy, April, 1979
Education
delete:
Homer Earl Carter, B.S., Wayne State University; A.M., Central Michigan University, Ed.S., ibid.
On recommendation of the proper faculty in each case, the
Regents confirmed the degrees conferred at the April, 1979 Commencement exercises.
IX. FINANCE-PROPERTY
Medical Library  Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the request to borrow
and Learning
a enter from the Manufacturers National Bank a sum of money for partial
cost of construction of the A. Alfred Taubman Medical Library




JUNE MEETING, 1979


335


and Learning Center and to charge interest on the loan to income
on temporary investments.
The Regents questioned the contingent liability clause in the
agreement. Regent Nederlander felt that it was not necessary.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff explained that the University had
to provide absolute assurance to the State Building Authority and
the State of Michigan that full funding for this project would
be available.
After further discussion it was agreed to defer the matter
until Friday.
Regent Roach moved to approve the resolution that authorizes
and approves the issuance and sale of the Regents of the The
University of Michigan, Dearborn Campus Projects Fee Bonds
in the principal amount of $10,180,000; accomplish the refinancing
of certain outstanding obligations as described in the May, 1979
Action Request and is provided in the Bond Authorizing Resolution; approves the form of the Official Statement and the Bond
Purchase Agreement and authorizes certain officers to execute
those douments; and authorizes certain officers to execute the
Bonds and any other documentation necessary, expedient or proper
in connection with the issuance, sale and delivery of the Bonds.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted. The
resolution appears as Appendix A to these minutes.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the offer of Stephen P. and
Suzanne N. Gerhardt to purchase Lot 20, Scottwood First Addition
to the City of Ann Arbor, plus a portion of the Community Park
consisting of.431 acres. Regent Baker seconded the motion and
it was adopted.
Regent Roach then moved that the Regents meet in closed
session at 6:00 P.M. this date for the purpose of reviewing applications of certain potential and preliminary candidates for the presidency of the University which preliminary candidates have
requested that their applications remain confidential and this is
in accordance with Section 8(f) of the Open Meeting Act. Regent
Dunn seconded the motion and it was adopted with Regents
Baker, Brown, Dunn, Laro, Nederlander, Power, Roach and
Waters voting affirmatively.
The Regents then heard from the following individuals as part
of the Public Comments portion of the meeting: Steve Ruskin
concerning the MSA elections; Robert Milrath on the lack of
campus day care for children; and Jerold Lax, David Hughes,
David Bien, William Ingram and Shaw Livermore concerning a
faculty appointment case.
The meeting was recessed.


Projects Fee
Bonds,
UM Dearborn
Real Property
Closed Meeting,
Motion for
Public Comments




336


JUNE MEETING, 1979


FRIDAY, JUNE 15, 1979
The Regents met at 9:00 A.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Dunn,
Laro, Nederlander, Power, Roach and Waters. Chancellors Goodall
and Moran and Vice-Presidents Brinkerhoff, Johnson, Overberger,
Radock, Shapiro and Vice-President and Secretary Kennedy also
were present.
Alumni  Mr. Robert P. Briggs, President of the Alumni Association and
Mr. Clarence Roy from the firm of Johnson, Johnson and Roy
were in attendance to present the Alumni Center project to the
Regents. Mr. Roy discussed the concerns expressed by the Regents
at the May meeting and the modifications they were now recommending.
Regent Baker discussed alternative plans for siting the project
and expressed concern regarding the drive access to the courtyard.
He also stated that to achieve the mall concept shown in the
plan Ingalls Street between North University and Washington
Streets would have to be closed.
Mr. Roy indicated that siting the building as recommended
would give the Alumni Center more identity and would not restrict
future expansion of the Mendelssohn Theatre. He said it was their
intention to retain the drive access.
Regent Power said the concept of Ingalls Mall as a pedestrian
area seemed desirable and asked what action was needed to
accomplish this.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff stated that the University has
ownership of the eastern half of Ingalls Street, but would require
vacation of the western side by the City of Ann Arbor in order
to close the area to traffic.
Regent Dunn moved to approve the preliminary design and to
authorize proceeding with working drawings subject to Regental
review prior to bidding. Regent Power seconded the motion and
it was adopted with Regent Baker voting no.
Regent Roach said he was in agreement with the mall concept
and discussed the need to acquire the west side of Ingalls Mall.
Medical Library  Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented that regarding the reand Learng quest for approval of a loan for the Medical Library and Learning
Center he had searched the files and also contacted the bank.
The provision in question is consistent with that which the University had with other loans supported by pledges and is a standard
phrase that appears in all the University's term loans. He also
noted that the bank will not permit the dropping of the paragraph.




JUNE MEETING, 1979


337


Regent Nederlander then moved to approve a loan for partial
cost of construction of the A. Alfred Taubman Medical Library
and Learning Center and authorization to charge interest on the
loan to income on Temporary Investments. Regent Baker seconded
the motion and it was adopted. The resolution and promissory
note follows:
RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
MICHIGAN AUTHORIZING THE BORROWING OF MONEY FOR
PARTIAL COST OF CONSTRUCTION OF THE A. ALFRED TAUBMAN
MEDICAL LIBRARY AND LEARNING CENTER AND ISSUANCE
OF A PROMISSORY NOTE IN EVIDENCE THEREOF SECURED
PRIMARILY BY A PLEDGE OF FUNDS FROM
A. ALFRED TAUBMAN
PREAMPLE
WHEREAS, there is presently under construction on the campus of The
University of Michigan a building to be used as a Medical Library and
Learning Center, which building is known and designated A. Alfred Taubman
Medical Library and Learning Center (the "Project"), and
WHEREAS, A. Alfred Taubman, by written Pledge Agreement under date
of October 20, 1977, pledged funds in the total sum of One Million
($1,000,000) Dollars toward the payment of costs of said Project, said
pledge being payable in ten (10) annual installments of One Hundred
Thousand ($100,000.00) Dollars each on or prior to December 1st in the
years 1977 to 1986, inclusive; the first two installments have been paid and
applied to construction costs of the Project, a copy of the said written
Pledge Agreement being attached to this resolution as Exhibit A and made a
part hereof; and
WHEREAS, said written Pledge Agreement was duly signed and executed
by the donor, A. Alfred Taubman; and
WHEREAS, said Project is now in the course of construction, and in
order to provide funds to pay contractors it is necessary and advisable that
there be borrowed in anticipation of the last eight installments of the
A. Alfred Taubman pledge, the sum of Eight Hundred Thousand ($800,000.00)
Dollars, to be repaid as to principal from the pledged amounts of $100,000.00
due December 1st of each of the years 1979 to 1986, inclusive, with interest
acruing to be paid from other unearmarked funds of the University legally
available therefor; and
WHEREAS, the Manufacturers National Bank,of Detroit, Michigan, has
agreed to loan the Regents of The University of Michigan, a Michigan Constitutional Corporation, (the "Regents"), said principal sum of $800,000.00,
secured as aforesaid, and under the terms and conditions and rates of interest
hereinafter set forth in this resolution; and
WHEREAS, the Regents has full power under its constitutional authority
and supervision of the University, and control of expenditures from University funds, to acquire, construct and equip said Project and to borrow money
and issue its promissory note therefor, secured by the unpaid portion of the
A. Alfred Taubman pledge hereinbefore referred to and as set forth in
Exhibit A, and other unearmarked and legally available University funds as
hereinafter set forth;
Now, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, as follows:




338


JUNE MEETING, 1979


AUTHORIZATION FOR BORROWING
1. For the purpose of providing necessary funds to carry on the construction of the Medical Library and Learning Center on the campus of
The University of Michigan, known and designated as the A. Alfred Taubman
Medical Library and Learning Center, there be borrowed from the Manufacturers National Bank, of Detroit, Michigan, the sum of Eight Hundred
Thousand ($800,000) Dollars, and that in evidence thereof there be given the
promissory note of the Regents as hereinafter provided.
TERMS OF PROMISSORY NOTE
2. Said promissory note shall be payable to the Manufacturers National
Bank, of Detroit, Michigan, shall be dated........................ 1979,
and shall be in the principal amount of Eight Hundred Thousand (800,000)
Dollars, payable in eight installments as follows:
$100,000.00         January 15, 1980
$100,000.00         January 15, 1981
$100,000.00         January 15, 1982
$100,000.00         January 15, 1983
$100,000.00         January 15, 1984
$100,000.00         January 15, 1985
$100,000.00         January 15, 1986
$100,000.00         January 15, 1987
and shall bear interest on the unpaid balance at the rate of six and one-half
percent (6.50%) per annum, payable annually on Jannary 15th of each of
the years 1980 to 1987, inclusive, at the same time as the principal installments are due in each year. Said promissory note shall be in substantially the
form attached to this resolution as Exhibit B and made a part hereof.
EXECUTION OF PROMISSORY NOTE
3. Said promissory note shall be signed in the name of and on behalf
of the Regents by J. F. Brinkerhoff, its Vice-President, or by R. L. Kennedy,
its Secretary, or by C. W. Matthews, its Controller, and after its execution
delivered to The Manufacturers National Bank upon receipt of the borrowed
funds.
PLEDGE OF SPECIFIC FUNDS FOR PRINCIPAL PAYMENTS
4. There is hereby irrevocably pledged to the payment of the principal
installments due on said promissory note, the sums due and owing under the
A. Alfred Taubman pledge on December 1st of each of the years 1978 to
1986, inclusive, as shown in Exhibit A attached hereto, which sums, as received, shall be set aside on the books and records of the University as a
special account designated A. ALFRED TAUBMAN MEDICAL LIBRARY AND LEARNING CENTER NOTE REPAYMENT FUND and used and applied to the payment
of the principal installments on said promissory note when due. In the
event A. Alfred Taubman prepays any installment of the said pledge, such
prepayment shall be applied to the principal balance due on the note at the
due date of the next installment without penalty for such prepayment.
INTEREST PAYMENTS
5. Interest on said promissory note, when due under the terms thereof,
shall be promtly paid out of unearmarked funds of the Regents legally
available for such purpose.




JUNE MEETING, 1979


339


USE OF OTHER FUNDS FOR PAYMENT OF NOTE
6. As additional security for the payment of the promissory note
evidencing the borrowing authorized by this resolution, the Regents do hereby
covenant and agree that in the event the funds pledged for the payment of
the principal installments thereof are not paid in sufficient amount or in time
to pay said principal installments in full on the due date thereof, it will
advance and pay the amount of such deficiency from such other funds of the
University under its control as may be legally available therefor.
LIMITATION OF OBLIGATION
7. No recourse under any obligation, covenant, stipulation or agreement
contained in this resolution or in the promissory note evidencing the borrowing authorized hereunder shall be had against the State of Michigan, or the
Regents or any member or officer of the Regents; nor shall any such obligation ever be or become a lien on or secured by any property, real, personal
or mixed of the State or the Regents; it being expressly understood and
agreed that the promissory note evidencing the borrowing authorized by this
resolution and the interest thereon is secured by and payable solely from
the special funds specified in this resolution, or such other unearmarked
funds of the University as may legally be used for such purpose, and that no
other liability whatsoever shall attach to or be incurred by the State of
Michigan, the University or the Regents, or any member or officer of the
Regents, or its successors.
PROMISSORY NOTE
$800,000.00                                     Ann Arbor, Michigan..............,   1979
On or before January 15, 1987, the Regents of The University of Michigan, a body corporate, created by and existing under the Constitution of the
State of Michigan, promises to pay to the order of the Manufacturers
National Bank at its main office in the City of Detroit, Michigan, the sum
of Eight Hundred Thousand ($800,000.00) Dollars, with interest on the
unpaid balance thereon at the rate of 6.50% per annum, payable on January
15th of each of the years 1980 to 1987, inclusive, at the same time as
principal installments are payable as herein provided. Principal installments
of the indebtedness evidenced by this note as payable in the amounts and
the times specified as follows:
Interest              Principal     Total
Payment Due          Payment               Payment      Payment
January 15, 1980                            $100,000.00
January 15, 1981                            $100,000.00
January 15, 1982                            $100,000.00
January 15, 1983                            $100,000.00
January 15, 1984                            $100,000.00
January 15, 1985                           $100,000.00
January 15, 1986                           $100,000.00
January 15, 1987                            $100,000.00
This note is issued pursuant to the authorization provided in a resolution
adopted by the Regents of The University of Michigan on June 15, 1979, and
is payable from and secured by the funds specified in said resolution. For a
complete statement of the purpose for which this note is issued and the




340


JUNE MEETING, 1979


funds from which and the conditions under which this note is payable,
reterence is made to the above referred to resolution, a certified copy of which
is attached hereto.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
B y....................................
Vice-President
Renovations  The Regents received a report indicating that an appropriation
to correct fire safety deficiencies in the G. G. Brown Building,
C. S. Mott Children's Hospital, and University Hospital had been
awarded to the University by the State Fire Marshall's Office.
Regent Laro moved authorization to proceed with the planning
to convert the top three floors of the 300 N. Ingalls Building
(1955 building) to wet laboratories to be used to accommodate
health-related research projects, and to appoint Eberle Smith and
Associates as architects for the project. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Regent Nederlander moved to approve the A & D Building
renovations; Frieze Building renovations; 400 N. Ingalls (1923
building) fire safety projects; Business Administration Building
renovations; and the development of a North Campus commuter
parking lot, as recommended. Regent Laro seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Regent Laro moved to authorize the University to proceed
with the renovation of the Buhr Building to provide library stack
space and to appoint an architect for the project. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion.
Regent Roach questioned the cost involved in renovating the
building as against the construction of a new building. He then
moved to table the motion until July to allow preparation of an
analysis of the alternatives. Regent Brown seconded the motion
and it was adopted.
Department of  Regent Baker moved to approve the appointment of William
Ophthaloltog  Kessler and Associates of Detroit, Michigan for the development
of a master plan for consolidation of the patient care, education,
and research functions of the Department of Ophthalmology at
University Hospital from the Outpatient Building, Main Hospital,
and Clinical Faculty building to the Parkview/Turner Hospital,
and to a proposed academic unit on or adjacent to the Parkview/
Turner site. Regent Nederlander seconded the motion and it was
adopted.




JUNE MEETING, 1979


341


In response to a question by Regent Power concerning the
impact of the Ophthalmology consolidation on the geriatric program, Vice-President Brinkerhoff indicated that there would be
sufficient space for geriatrics with expansion capability in space
vacated by Internal Medicine.
X. OTHER
Regent Nederlander moved to authorize the Department of
Theatre and Drama in the College of LS&A to award the M.A.
and Ph.D. degrees. Regent Waters seconded the motion and it
was adopted.
The Regents received a report on the history of the Affirmative
Action organization and related problems at the University of
Michigan-Dearborn.
Regent Nederlander moved authorization to request the Michigan Liquor Control Commission issue an on-premises license for
the University Center at The University of Michigan-Flint and
to seek a permit for direct connection to unlicensed areas in the
University Center. Regent Power seconded the motion and it was
adopted.


Graduate Degrees
to be Awarded in
Theatre & Drama
Affirmative Action
Report,
UM-Dearborn
Liquor License
for UM-Flint


Vice-President Brinkerhoff reviewed the recommendation to  Real Property
sell two acres of University owned land on Baxter Road to the
City of Ann Arbor. He said the City must have title to the
property to qualify for federal funding for developement as a
park. It was his understanding that to meet the requirements of
the grant the City must act immediately.
A discussion ensued which indicated the Regent's interest in
moving ahead more rapidly with the development of Ingalls Mall
to compliment the development of the Alumni Center. There was
therefore considerable interest in implementing the original agreement with the City which involved the City's vacation of Ingalls
Street in exchange for the North Campus park land.
Following discussion, Regent Baker moved to approve the sale
contingent upon architectural reservations on the use of the land,
the cooperation of the City of Ann Arbor to vacate the west side
of Ingalls Street for the development of a Mall, and that part of
the funds to be used for master planning. There was no second
to the motion.
Regent Roach then moved to authorize the sale of the two acres
of land on Baxter Road to the City of Ann Arbor provided the
University receives satisfactory assurances from the Mayor and
the City Council to vacate the west side of Ingalls Street between
North University and Washington Street upon the request of the
University. Regent Dunn seconded the motion.




342


JUNE MEETING, 1979


Regent Laro suggested that because of the urgency of the
mater the University could contact City Council members within
the next few hours to solicit their assurance. The Regents could
then reconvene in the evening to take whatever action was
necessary.
Regent Roach then withdrew his motion and Regent Dunn his
second.
Regent Laro then moved that the University be authorized to
negotiate with the City of Ann Arbor to provide for vacation of
the property on the west side of Ingalls Street in exchange for
valuable consideration which may be some cash, but may also
include the property on Baxter Road and that the Regents would
reconvene at 6:20 P.M. to take action. Regent Nederlander
seconded the motion and it was adopted.
Microbiology and  Regent Nederlander moved to approve changing the name of
DIpamrtmnof the Department of Microbiology to the Department of Microbiology and Immunology. Regent Baker seconded the motion and
it was adopted.
Water Lines  The Regents received a progress report on the replacement of
Replacement,
UM  Dearborn the steam and chilled water lines at UM-Dearborn which indicated that the low bid of Glanz and Killian Company of Dearborn, Michigan had been accepted.
South African  Regent Baker read into the minutes the following editorial
Editorial re from Business Week, dated June 18, 1979 on "Reforms in South
Africa."
"For many years, U.S. companies that operated in South
Africa have been pressured by domestic critics to withdraw from
the African country as a way of punishing it for its discrimination
against its black majority. But most U.S. companies have decided
to stay in South Africa and work to improve conditions there for
black workers and their families. These company efforts are starting to yield real progress. Slow but significant improvements in
such vital areas to blacks as equal pay, job training, housing, and
other social conditions on and off the job are powerful evidence
that South Africa's black population will be far better off if
American companies remain in South Africa and continue to press
for reforms rather than pull out.
American business, which accounts for only 17o of foreign
investment in South Africa, faces severe limits on how far it can
go in fighting that country's pervasive system of apartheid. But
almost half the 280 companies operating there-partly under
pressure from critics in this country-have agreed to implement
the principles of the so-called Sullivan code, named for the
Reverend Leon H. Sullivan, a noted U.S. black leader and a direc



JUNE MEETING, 1979


343


tor of General Motors Corp. These principles concern desegregation of workplaces, equal pay for equal work, job training, including apprenticeships for skilled jobs, and a wide range of other
advances for blacks. By agreeing to implement them, U.S. companies are pushing the government in Pretoria toward reforms
that it otherwise would probably not make.
Sullivan himself now says he does not want General Motors to
withdraw from South Africa so long as such progress continues.
The grandstand gestures demanded by some of the groups that
descended on stockholder meetings some years ago would have
made this sort of real progress impossible."
President Smith then commented that he had asked VicePresident Shapiro and Dean Ragone to submit their statements
concerning a faculty appointment case.
Regent Roach moved approval of the following resolution.
Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted:
Chancellor Leonard E. Goodall has led The University of Michigan-  L. E. Goodall
Dearborn for eight years, a period of vigorous and dynamic growth. During  Resolution
this time, Chancellor Goodall has guided The University of Michigan-Dearborn through the transition from a two-year to a four-year institution and
increased the number of undergraduate and graduate programs. Under his
leadership, the campus has established itself as an innovative institution,
incorporating relevance with quality in its academic programs and services.
Chancellor Goodall has demonstrated a sensitivity to the needs of all
elements of the University-faculty, students, staff and alumni, while establishing a strong and consistent relationship with the state legislature, the
business community, organized labor and the general public.
He has recognized the distinctive characteristics and strengths of the
University, and applied those elements to a developing campus in a large
metropolitan area. In so doing, he has inspired and led the campus in a
direction that is both consistent with the University's heritage of academic
excellence and consonant with the social, economic and political climate of the
late twentieth century. These accomplishments have been attained through
patience, fairness and willingness for open discussion on all issues affecting
the University.
We salute Chancellor Goodall for his work at The University of Michigan-Dearborn, thank him for his dedicated efforts here, and wish him well
in his future endeavors.
The meeting was recessed.
The Regents reconvened at 6:20 P.M.
Present were the President and Regents Baker, Brown, Laro,
Power and Roach. Chancellors Goodall and Moran and Vice Presidents Brinkerhoff, Radock and Vice-President and Secretary
Kennedy were also present. Regents Dunn, Nederlander and
Waters and Vice-Presidents Johnson, Overberger and Shapiro
were absent.
Vice-President Brinkerhoff commented that the City Adminis-        Real Property
trator could not be reached and the Mayor indicated that he could




344


JUNE MEETING, 1979


not give asurance that the City would vacate the west side of
Ingalls Street without full discussion with the City Council.
Apparently, however, the City has thirty days to confirm proof of
ownership of the Baxter Road property.
Mr. Brinkerhoff then referred to the resolution approved by
the Regents in October 1977 which authorized the sale of the
Baxter Road property for $5,000 if the City agreed to vacate the
west half of Ingalls Street and Madison Street between Thompson
and Packard.
Regent Roach then moved to authorize Vice-President Brinkerhoff to convey the property in accordance with the October 1977
resolution. Regent Brown seconded the motion and it was adopted.
All the above transactions were by unanimous vote unless
otherwise indicated.
Transportation expenses and accommodation costs for the
month of May totaled $2,939.47.
The Regents adjourned to meet on July 19 and 20, 1979.
RICHARD L. KENNEDY, Secretary




JUNE MEETING, 1979


345


INDEX
Alumni Center, 336
Appointments, 326, 330; committee, 327
Audit report, internal, 319
Bett, V. M., retirement, 331
Briggs, L. I., memorial statement, 333
Britton, A. P., named Dean Emeritus, Music, 327
Budget for 1978-79; 1979-80, 321
Carow, J., retirement, 331
Closed meeting, motion for, 335
Dearborn: affirmative action report, 341; Goodall, L. E., resolution, 343;
projects fee bonds, 335; water lines replacement, 342
Degrees: lists amended, 334; confirmed, 334
Flint, liquor license, 341
Garrison, G. R., retirement, 332
Gifts, 321
Goodall, L. E., resolution, 343
Hospital: certificate of need extension approved, 321; medical staff appointments approved, 327; replacement project, 319
Hurst, L. P., appointed associate dean, Music, 327
Intercollegiate Athletics, Board in Control appointments, 329
Leaves of Absence, 327, 331
Medical Staff appointments approved, 327
Medical Library and Learning Center, 334, 336
Microbiology and Immunology, Department of, 342
Music, School of, associate deanship established, 327
Okey, L. L., retirement, 332
Ophthalmology, Department of, consolidation, 340
Patterson, W. C., appointed associate dean, Music, 327
Phair, J., commended, 319
Professorships, departmental, established, 327
Promotions, 326
Public Comments, 335
Real Property, 335, 341, 343
Renovations, 340
Resignations, 331
Rosseels, G., retirement, 333
South African investments, editorial re, 342
Theatre and Drama, Department of, to award graduate degrees, 341




APPENDIX A


RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN   AUTHORIZING     THE   ISSUANCE    OF   BONDS TO     REFUND
CERTAIN NOTES RELATING TO THE FINANCING OF THE CAMPUS
MALL AND MONTEITH PARKING STRUCTURE ON THE CAMPUS
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN-DEARBORN, TO RECOVER
GENERAL FUNDS ADVANCED FOR OTHER EXISTING PARKING
FACILITIES AND TO PROVIDE FUNDS FOR THE CONSTRUCTION
OF ADDITIONAL PARKING AND TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES,
ALL AT THE DEARBORN CAMPUS, AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE
PAYMENT AND SECURITY OF THE BONDS AND OTHER MATTERS
RELATING THERETO.
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order
to properly serve the needs of students attending The University of Michigan,
the Regents of The University of Michigan (the terms "Regents" and "University" hereinafter refer to the Regents or he University or both as the
context permits or requires) have previously commenced construction on the
Dearborn Mall on the campus of The University of Michigan-Dearborn,
and in order to finance the same have entered into a Term Loan and Security
Agreement with Ann Arbor Bank and Trust Company dated as of August 1,
1978 (the "Dearborn Mall Term Loan"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to
properly serve the needs of students attending the University, the Regents
have previously constructed, furnished, and equipped a parking structure
known as the Monteith Parking Structure on the Campus of The University
of Michigan-Dearborn, and in order to finance the same have entered into
a Term Loan and Security Agreement with the Detroit Bank and Trust
Company, dated as of November 1, 1975 (the "Parking Structure Term
Loan"); and
WHEREAS, there remain presently outstanding and owing to the Banks
principal on the note evidencing the Dearborn Mall Term Loan in the amount
of $5,700,000 and principal on the note evidencing the Parking Structure
Term Loan in the amount of $1,435,000; and
WHEREAS, the Parking Structure Term Loan contains a restriction that
"the University shall not prepay principal of the Note from money borrowed
for that purpose which bears a rate of interest less than the rate of interest on
the Note," but the Bank has indicated that it will waive this restriction; and
WHEREAS, construction work has been completed on certain parking lots
on the Dearborn Campus, generally identifiable as Parking Lot E and the
parking lot south of the field house ("Other Existing Parking Facilities"), for
which $567,000 was advanced from general funds of the University, of which
$397,000 is outstanding; and
WHEREAS, construction is underway on certain additional parking and
transportation facilities on the Dearborn Campus, as identified and authorized
in a resolution of the Regents adopted May 18, 1979 (the "Additional
Parking and Transportation Facilities"); and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of their constitutional duties and in order to
properly serve the interests of students attending the University, and to
prudently control and direct expeditures of the University's funds and manage
the University's outstanding debt, the Regents deem it necessary and ad

347




348


JUNE MEETING, 1979


visable to issue Dearborn Campus Projects Fee Bonds (hereinafter defined
as the "Bonds") in the principal amount of Ten Million One Hundred Eighty
Thousand ($10,180,000) Dollars for the purpose of such refunding the Dearborn Mall Term Loan and the Parking Structures Term Loan, recovering
general funds previously advanced for Other Existing Parking Facilities, and
financing the cost of Additional Parking and Transportation Facilities, and to
pay the expenses incident to the issuance of the Bonds and the refunding,
including funding a necessary Reserve Fund for the Bonds in the amount of
$900,000; and
WHEREAS, the refunding of the Dearborn Mall Term    Loan and the
Parking Structure Term Loan into a borrowing evidenced by the Bonds will
enable the University to extend the maturity of principal repayments on the
borrowing and thereby enable the University to finance additional projects
on the Dearborn Campus e.g., the Additional Parking and Transportation
Facilities; and
WHEREAS, the refunding of the Dearborn Mall Term Loan and the Parking Structure Term Loan will enable the University to more efficiently
manage the University Dearborn Campus debt; and
WHEREAS, the construction of Additional Parking and Transportation
Facilities at the Dearborn Campus will improve traffic control and flow on
the Dearborn Campus; and
WHEREAS, the refunding of the Dearborn Mall Term Loan and Parking
Structure Term Loan, the construction of Other Existing Parking Facilities
and recovery of general funds advanced therefor, and the construction of
Additional Parking and Transportation Facilities serve proper and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the University has previously incurred obligations secured
by a pledge of and first lien against Student Fees, subject to the right to
incur additional obligations similarly secured upon condition usually specified
in the resolutions authorizing said previously incurred obligations as fellows,
to wit:
"The right is reserved to issue additional obligations for authorized
purposes secured by a pledge of Student Fees, having equal standing and
priority of lien or charge against all Student Fees charged and collected
with the Bonds: Provided, However, that such obligations shall not be
issued unless the total amount of said Student Fees actually collected for
each of the two preceding complete fiscal years prior to the issuance of
said additional obligations, as shown by audit reports of the University
for said fiscal years, are equal to at least two hundred (200%) percent
of the maximum annual amount of Student Fees pledged to the payment of the Bonds, plus the maximum annual amount of Student Fees
pledged to the payment of any other then outstanding obligations payable from Student Fees, plus the maximum annual amount of Student
Fees allocated and pledged to the additional obligations then being
issued."
WHEREAS, all conditions and requirements precedent to the issuance of
the Bonds have been met, as shown by audit reports of the University for
each of its last two preceding fiscal years, 1976-77 and 1977-78; and
WHEREAS, the Regents have been created as a constitutional body corporate under the provisions of Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, and the Regents have full power under their constitutional authority and supervision of the University, and control and direction
of expenditures from the University funds, to refund the Dearborn Mall
Term Loan and the Parking Structure Term Loan, to construct Other Existing
Parking Facilities and recover general funds advanced therefor, to construct




JUNE MEETING, 1979


349


Additional Parking and Transportation Facilities, to issue the Bonds, and to
pledge Students Fees for payments of the Bonds;
Now, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN, As FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I
DEFINITIONS
In addition to the terms defined in the preambles to the Resolution, the
following terms shall have, unless the context otherwise requires, the meanings
herein specified:
"Bank" means, with respect to the Dearborn Mall Term Loan, Ann
Arbor Bank and Trust Company, a Michigan banking corporation, and with
respect to the Parking Structure Term Loan, The Detroit Bank and Trust
Company, a Michigan banking corporation.
"Bond" or "Bonds" means the $10,180,000 principal amount of Regents
of the University of Michigan Dearborn Campus Projects Fee Bonds to be
issued under the Resolution.
"Bond Fund" means the University of Michigan Dearborn Campus
Projects Fee Bond Fund established by Section 402 hereof.
"Bondholder" or "holder" (when used with reference to Bonds) means
the bearer of any Bond not registered as to princicpal and the registered
owner of any Bond registered as to principal and "holder" (when used with
reference to coupons) shall mean the bearer of such coupons.
"Fiscal Year" means the fiscal year of the University, beginning on
July 1 and ending on June 30.
"Funds Legally Available Therefor" means any moneys of the University
that may be legally used by the University to pay principal of, and interest
on, the Bonds but shall not include any funds (a) currently or subsequently
pledged for, or committed to present or future loans or other purposes to the
extent so pledged or committed, or (b) the use of which would result in the
loan herein authorized being construed as indebtedness of the State of Michigan under the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
"Interest Payment Date" means October 1, 1979 and each April 1 and
October 1 thereafter during the period the Bonds are outstanding.
"Investment Income" means and includes all interest or profit, when
received, earned through the investment or reinvestment of all moneys in the
Projects Fund, the Bond Fund and the Reserve Fund.
The terms "outstanding" or "Bonds outstanding" mean, as of any date,
all Bonds theretofore or then being delivered under the Resolution, except
Bonds theretofore acquired by the University and cancelled, and except
further that no Bonds shall be deemed outstanding where the University shall
have made provision for payment of all Bonds in accordance with the Resolution by depositing into the Bond Fund cash or direct obligations of the
United States of America, the principal of and interest on which when due
will be sufficient to pay the principal and interest on the Bonds as the same
becomes due through maturity, and shall have promptly thereafter given
notice of such provision for payment to the holders of all Bonds registered
as to principal and to each holder of bearer bonds who have requested such
notice in writing, by certified or registered mail postage prepaid, addressed to
the last known address of such bondholder as it appears on the bond register
or list maintained by the Paying Agent for such purpose.




350


JUNE MEETING, 1979


"Parity Obligations" means the Bonds and any other debts or obligations
of the University secured by a pledge of and first lien against Student Fees,
including the existing Parity Obligations specified in Section 501 and any
additional Parity Obligations hereafter issued by the University from time to
time in accordance with the terms of the Resolution.
"Paying Agent" means Ann Arbor Trust Company, Ann Arbor Michigan
or any successor Paying Agent in accordance with the provisions of Section
1102.
"Projects Fund" means the University of Michigan Dearborn Campus
Projects Fund established by Section 401 hereof.
"Regents" means the Regents of The University of Michigan, a constitutional body corporate having general supervision of the University and
control and direction of all expenditures from its funds.
"Reserve Fund" means the University of Michigan Dearborn Campus
Projects Fee Bond Reserve Fund established by Section 403 hereof.
"Resolution" means this resolution and any other resolutions amendatory
or supplementary hereto in accordance with the terms hereof.
"Student Fees" means the general tuition fees established from time to
time by the University, and collected from the students attending any campus
of the University which fees range currently from a minimum of $394 per
term for an undergraduate resident student to $2,680 per term for a nonresident full time medical student.
"University" means The University of Michigan and/or the Regents as
the context requires or permits.
ARTICLE II
THE PROJECTS
Section 201 Outline of the Projects. The University will accomplish the
following purposes with the issuance of the Bonds:
(a) the Dearborn Mall Term Loan will be refunded and refinanced;
(b) the Parking Structure Term Loan will be refunded and refinanced;
(c) Funds previously advanced for the construction of Other Existing
Parking Facilities will be recovered;
(d) Financing for the construction cost, estimated to be $1,600,000 of
the Additional Parking and Transportation facilities will be provided; and
(e) the Reserve Fund will be funded in the amount of $900,000.
Section 202 Necessity for the Projects. The Regents in the exercise of
their powers and authority relative to the general supervision of the University and control and direction of all expenditures from the University's
funds, as provided in Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of
1963, hereby determine that the issuance of the Bonds for the purposes set
forth in Section 201 is necessary and advisable in order to consolidate the debt
relating to the Dearborn Campus (including provision for permanent financing for the Dearborn Mall), to more efficiently manage such debt, to
extend the principal payments on such debt and thereby enable the financing
of additional projects on the Dearborn Campus (including the Additional
Parking and Transportation Facilities), and to improve traffic control and
flow on the Dearborn Campus.
Section 203 Cost and Date of Refunding Term Loans. The refunding
of the Dearborn Mall Term Loan and the Parking Structure Term Loan by




JUNE MEETING, 1979


351


payment to the Banks out of the proceeds of the Bonds of the $5,700,000
outstanding principal on the Dearborn Campus Mall Term Loan and the
$1,435,000 outstanding principal on the Parking Structure Term Loan is
hereby approved. The refunding shall occur simultaneously with the delivery
of the Bonds, which shall be on or about July 3, 1979, or as soon thereafter
as possible. The refunding shall be in accordance with the prepayment provisions of said Term Loans. James T. Brinkerhoff, Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the University, C. W. Matthews, Controller of the University, and Norman G. Herbert, Investment Officer, or any of them, are
authorized and directed to give the Bank timely written notice of prepayment
as required in said Term Loans and to perform all other acts and deeds and
execute all instruments and documents necessary, expedient and proper in
connection with refunding.
Section 204. Estimated Cost of Other Projects. The recovery of funds
previously advanced for the Other Existing Parking Facilities will be $397,000.
The construction of the Additional Parking and Transportation Facilities is
estimated to cost $1,600,000.
Section 205 Estimated Period of Usefulness of Projects. The estimated
period of usefulnes of all of the facilities to be financed with the proceeds
of the Bonds is determined to be not less than 26 years, the final maturity of
the Bonds.
ARTICLE III
THE BONDS
Section 301  Authorization of the Issuance of the Bonds. For the purposes set forth in Article II, there shall be borrowed Ten Million One Hundred
and Eighty Thousand ($10,180,000), and in evidence thereof there shall be
issued in such amount the Bonds of the Regents which shall be designated
"Dearborn Campus Projects Fee Bonds."
Section 302 Limited Obligation and Other Bond Terms. The Bonds
shall be limited obligations of the Regents equally and ratably and solely
secured by Student Fees and any moneys in the Bond Fund or Reserve Fund,
and the Bonds shall not be a debt or liability of the State of Michigan or a
general obligation of the University.
The Bonds shall be dated July 1, 1979, shall bear interest from the date
thereof payable October 1, 1979 and semiannually thereafter on April 1 and
October 1 until payment of the Bonds or provision therefor at the rates, and
shall mature serially on April 1 of each year in the principal amounts, as
follows:




352


JUNE MEETING, 1979


Amount                     Year                Interest Rate
$  70,000                   1984                   8.00%
155,000                  1985                    8.00
215,000                   1986                   8.00
230,000                   1987                   8.00
245,000                   1988                   8.00
265,000                   1989                   8.00
280,000                   1990                   7.10
300,000                   1991                   5.60
325,000                   1992                   5.60
345,000                   1993                   5.70
385,000                   1994                   5.70
410,000                   1995                   5.80
460,000                   1996                   5.80
485,000                   1997                   5.90
515.000                   1998                   5.90
545,000                   1999                   6.00
580,000                  2000                    6.00
615,000                   2001                   6.10
655,000                   2002                   6.10
695,000                  2003                    6.20
735,000                  2004                    6.25
1,670,000                  2005                   5.50
The Bonds shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity as provided in
the form of the Bonds set forth in Section 304. Provision for payment of
the Bonds in accordance with the terms of the Resolution may be made prior
to maturity at which time of provision for payment the Bonds shall cease
to be deemed outstanding under the Resolution.
The Bonds shall be issued on the form of coupon Bonds in the denomination of $5,000 and shall be numbered consecutively from 1 to 2,036. The
Bonds may be registered as to principal only and exchanged in the manner
and with the effect as provided in the form of the Bonds set forth in Section
304. The principal and interest on the Bonds shall be payble upon presentation and surrender of the Bonds and interest coupons as they respectively
become due at the principal office of the Paying Agent and payment shall
be made in lawful money of the United States of America.
Section 303 Execution and Delivery. The Bonds shall be signed in the
name of and on behalf of the University by its Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer or its Controller, shall have its corporate seal affixed thereto,
and the coupons attached to the Bonds shall be executed by facsimile
signature of the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the University
printed, lithographed or engraved thereon. The Bonds shall be delivered by
the Controller to the purchaser thereof in Chicago, Illinois, Detroit, Michigan
or Ann Arbor, Michigan upon payment of the purchase price.
Section 304 Form of Bonds. The Bonds shall be lithographed or printed
on steel-engraved borders, may bear such legends as may be required to
comply with any law or general usage, and shall otherwise be in the following
form, with such appropriate variations, omissions and insertions as are
permitted or required by the Resolution:




JUNE MEETING, 1979


353


REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
DEARBORN CAMPUS PROJECTS
FEE BOND
$5,000                                                  No........
The Regents of The University of Michigan, a body corporate created
by and existing under the Constitution of the State of Michigan (hereinafter
sometimes called the "University") for value received, promises to pay to
the bearer hereof, or if this bond be registered, to the registered owner, the
sum of
FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
on the first day of April,......, with interest thereon from the date hereof
until maturity, at  the  rate  of........................ percent  (.....  )
per annum, payable on October 1, 1979, and semiannually thereafter on the
first day of April and October of each year, upon presentation and surrender
of the proper interest coupons hereto annexed as they severally become due.
Both principal of and interest on this bond are payable in lawful money of
the United States of America at the principal office of Ann Arbor Trust Company, Ann Arbor, Michigan (the "Paying Agent").
This bond is one of an issue of two thousand thirty-six bonds of even
date and like tenor, aggregating the principal sum of $10,180,000 all issued
pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Regents of the University on June 15,
1979 (the "Resolution") for the purpose of refunding certain notes of the
University dated November 1, 1975 and August 1, 1978 evidencing outstanding indebtedness of $1,435,000 and $5,700,000, respectively, incurred to finance
the construction of the Monteith Parking Structure and the Campus Mall,
recovering general funds advanced for the construction of certain other
existing parking facilities, and financing the construction of additional parking
and transportation facilities, all on the Campus of The University of Michigan-Dearborn, and paying costs incidental to such refunding and the
issuance of the bonds, including a reserve fund for the bonds, all in accordance
with the authority vested in the University by law, particularly Article VIII,
Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
Said bonds, including this bond, are equally and ratably secured by an
irrevocable pledge of Student Fees for tuition collected from the students
attending the University. The University has covenanted and agreed to
establish, maintain and collect Student Fees from each student, so that the
total of such Student Fees collected will be in an amount sufficient to provide
anual sums sufficient to provide for the payment of the principal of and
interest on the bonds and other obligations payable therefrom when due in
accordance with the requirements therefor.
For a complete statement of the purposes for which the bonds are issued,
the Student Fees from which and the conditions under which this bond is
payable, the general covenants and provisions pursuant to which this bond
is issued, the outstanding obligations of the University which have an equal
claim on the Student Fees with the bonds of the issue of which this is one,
the rights of the holders of bonds of this issue and the right of the
University to issue additional obligations of equal standing and priority of
lien on the Student Fees with bonds of the issuer of which this is one, and
the terms and conditions under which this bond and the series of bonds of
which this is one, or any part thereof, shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, reference is made to the Resolution.
Bonds of this issue shall be subject to redemption as a whole or in part
prior to maturity, at the option of the University, on any interest payment




354


JUNE MEETING, 1979


date on or after April 1, 1989 at a redemption price of par and accrued
interest to the date of redemption plus premium (expressed as a percentage
of the par value of the bonds to be redeemed) in accordance with the
following schedule:
3% of the par value of each bond redeemed prior to April 1, 1992;
2% of the par value of each bond redeemed on or after April 1, 1992,
but prior to April 1, 1995;
1% of the par value of each bond redeemed on or after April 1, 1995,
but prior to April 1, 1998;
No premium shall be paid on bonds redeemed on or after April 1, 1998.
If less than all outstanding bonds of this issue are called for redemption, as
herein provided, the Bonds shall be called for redemption in inverse numerical
order.
Thirty days notice of call of any bonds for redemption shall be given
by the University by publication in a newspaper or financial journal published
in the City of New York, New York, which carries as part of its regular
service notices of sale of municipal bonds. The University shall send a copy of
such notice to the registered holder of each bond registered as to principal
and to each holder of a bearer bond who has requested such notice in writing,
by certified or registered mail postage prepaid, addressed to the last known
address of such bondholder as it appears upon the bond register or list maintained by the Paying Agent for such purpose, not later than 30 days prior
to the date fixed for redemption; but failure to give any such notice by
mailing, or any defect therein, shall not affect the validity of any proceeding
for the redemption of any bond with respect to which such failure has
occurred. Notice need not be published if all bonds to be redeemed are
registered as to principal and 30 days notice is mailed to each registered
holder. Bonds so called for redemption shall not bear interest after the date
fixed for redemption provided sufficient funds are on deposit with the Paying
Agent to redeem the Bonds called for redemption on the date fixed for
redemption, and shall cease to be deemed outstanding under the provisions
of the Resolution and shall cease to be entitled to any source of payment,
security or benefit under the Resolution other than the right to receive
payment from the funds deposited with the Paying Agent.
This bond may cease to be deemed outstanding under the Resolution if
the University at any time makes provision for payment of all bonds of the
issue of which this bond is one by depositing with the Paying Agent cash
or direct obligations of the United States of America, the principal of and
interest on which when due, will be sufficient to pay the principal of and
interest on the bonds as the same become due by maturity. Notice of such
provision for payment shall be promptly thereafter sent to the registered
holder of each bond registered as to principal and to each holder of a bearer
bond who has requested such notice in writing, by certified or registered mail
postage prepaid, addressed to the last known address of such bondholder
as it appears upon the bond register or list maintained by the Paying Agent
for such prupose. Upon the happening of the above conditions, the bonds
shall cease to be entitled to any source of payment, security or benefit under
the Resolution other than the right to receive payment from the aforesaid
cash or direct obligations placed with the Paying Agent.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or
interest on this bond or any claim based thereon against the State of Michigan, the University or any member of the University, or any officer or agent
thereof, as individuals, either directly or indirectly; nor shall these obligations
become lien on or secured by any property, real, personal or mixed, of the
State of Michigan or the University, other than the Student Fees, as defined
in the Resolution, which are pledged to meet or provide for the payment




JUNE MEETING, 1979


355


of said obligations; and the liability of the University, as a body corporate,
shall be limited to said Student Fees, all other liability, except as expressed
in the Resolution, being by the acceptance hereof and as a part of the consideration for the issuance hereof expressly waived.
This bond is transferable by delivery unless registered as to principal
in the owner's name upon books to be kept by the Paying Agent for such
purpose, such registration to be noted hereon. After such registration no
transfer of this bond shall be valid unless made on said books at the request
of the registered owner hereof, or his duly authorized agent, and similarly
noted hereon; but this bond may be discharged from registration by being
in like manner transferred to bearer, whereupon transferability by delivery
shall be restored, and this bond may again from time to time be registered
or made payable to bearer as before. Such registration, however, shall not
affect the negotiability of the annexed coupons, which shall always be
transferable by delivery and be payable to bearer, and payment to bearer
thereof shall fully discharge the University in respect to the interest thereon,
whether or not this bond be registered as to principal and whether or not
such coupons be overdue.
IT Is HEREBY CERTIFIED AND RECITED that all acts, conditions and things
required to be done, to happen or to be performed precedent to and in the
issuance of this bond, have been done, have happened and have been performed in due time, form and manner, as required by law.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Regents of The University of Michigan has
caused this bond to be signed for it and in its behalf by its Vice-President
(or Controller) and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed, and has caused
the annexed interest coupons to be executed and authenticated by the facsimile
signature of its Vice-President, all as of the first day of July, A.D., 1979.
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSTY OF MICHIGAN
By...................................
Its Vice-President (or Controller)
(SEAL)
(Form of Coupon)
N o..........                                   $..............
On October (April) 1, 19...., unless the bond hereinafter mentioned
shall have been duly called for previous redemption, the Regents of The
University of Michigan promise to pay to bearer from Student Fees as defined
in the Resolution, pursuant to which said bond is issued, the sum of........I...................... Dollars, lawful money  of the United  States
of America, at the principal office of Ann Arbor Trust Company, Ann Arbor,
Michigan, being the interest due that date on The University of Michigan,
Dearborn Campus Projects Fee Bonds, dated July 1, 1979, No........
REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN


By....................................



