
JULY MEETING, 2005

The University ofMichigan
Ann Arbor
Thursda, July1 21, 2005
The Regents convened at 2:10 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and White. Also
present were Vice President Churchill, Provost Courant, Vice President Harper,
Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice
President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President
Slottow, and Vice President Wilbans. Regent McGowan and Vice President Ulaby
were absent; Regent Maynard participated via telephone.
Call to Order and President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman called the meeting to order. She announced that the women's
softball team had visited the White House last week to be honored by President Bush for
having won the national championship, and had represented the University extremely
well. She also commented on her recent visit to China where University ofMichigan
officials formalized partnerships with universities in Beijing and Shanghai, met with
Chinese elected officials and with the American ambassador to China, and atended
alumni receptions.
PresidentColeman reported that in a few days she would be joining Governor
Granholm on a visit to Osaka, Japan, in order to meet with biotechnology compaies as
part of a state overture tointerest Japanese firms in investing in the state, and
particularly the life sciences corridor. The presidents of Michigan State and Wayne
State Universities, as well as representatives from other Michigan institutions, are also
taing part in the trip, as are Executive Vice President Kelch and ProfessorAlan Saltiel,
director of the Life Sciences Institute.
President Coleman noted that Provost Courant would be stepping down as of
August 31, 2005, and commented, "His service to the University during his tenure as
provost has been stellar. He has brought immense knowledge and commitment to the
role, and all of us who work with him respect both his intellect and his 100% dedication
to the University's academic excellence." She called on Regent Newman.
Regents'Resolution in Honor of Paul Courant
Regent Newman called Provost Courant to the podium and read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michiga  salute and express
their gratitude to Paul N. Courant as he completes his three-year term as
provost and vice president for academic affairs on August 31, 2005, and
returns to the faculty to pursue his interests in research and teaching.
Provost Courant's career at the University of Michigan has been
ideal preparation for his service as the University s chief academic and
budgetay officer. After joining the faculty in 1973 as an assistant



July Meeting, 2005

professor of economics and public policy, he was promoted to associate
professor in 1978 and professor in 1984, and since 1975 he ha been a
faculty assoiate at the Population Studis Center in the Instiute for
Social Research.Prior to assuming the position ofprovost and executive
vice president for academic affairs in 2002, he served as director of the
Institute of Public Policy Studies, chair of the Department of Economics,
and associate provost for academic and budgetary affairs.  His
commitment to f  debate, ca     analysis,nd reasoed discussion is
evident in his scholarship, his teaching, and his leadership in academic
and public poli  discourse.  e is a thoughtfi Ispokespeson for higher
education and a reglar contributor to state, regional, and national
policy discussions on education finance, aation systems, and economic
development.
A deep dedication to academic excellence, ensuring access, and
the preservation of universities as public goods have been the hallmark
of Dr. Courant's tenure as provost. An active advocate, promoter, and
supporter of the rich interdisciplinaly work that grows out of excellence
and diversity, Provost Courant has helped secure the University's
position among the world's leading institutions of higher learning. His
guidance and oversight durin  cult budgeta  times will be r
as one of his foremost contributions to the University's long-term
well-being, and his emphasis on the recruitment and retention of
outstanding faculty and students will serve the Universit well into the
future.
With respect and appreciation, the Regents commend Paul N
Courant for his outstanding service as provost and executive vice
ident for academic      fairs and look forward to his contiue
contributions as a researcher, teacher, and active participant in public
affairs.
A standing ovation followed. Provost Courant thankedthe Regents for keeping as
a priority the University's quality and peformance,and thanked President Coleman for
her leadership and knowledge ofhigher education, and for the confidence she's had in
him and the flexibility she's given him. He also thankedthe academic leadership of the
institution, including the deans, executie officers, and provost's senior staff and said
that eveything we do should serve the academic mission. He also praised staff at all
levels of the University.
Provost Courant thanked the Regents for the recognition, and for the opportunity to
"do this magical work of learning in this magical place as a faculty member, as provost,
and as a faculty member again." Another standing ovation followed.
President's Remarks on the 2005-2006 Budget
President Coleman noted that in FY2004-05 there had been another reduction in state
appropriation, along with artificially restrained tuition, and an another unexpected
mid-year cut. The unprecedented loss of state appropriations over the past several years,
she stated, now threatens to compromise the University's core academic excellence.
Noting that further losses in state support are likely, she said that the proposed 2005-2006
budget focuses on two of the most critical priorities of her administration, preserving the
University's distinctive excellence in the competitive national maetplace, and



July Meeting, 2005

maintaining access to that education in the face of declning state support. The budget
recommendation addresses the decline in state support by recommending increasesin
tuition and financial aid in additionto about $20 million in cuts and reallocations. The
recommended increase for resident undergraduate tuition is 12.3% and for financial aid,
14.5%. She said she is convinced that ths is the most responsible approach to dealing with
the most extraordinary situation occung in the state, and pointedout that the total
increase in finacial aid from allsources will be over 28%.
President Coleman observed that since 2002, the University has lost over $50
million in base appropriations and $21 million in one-time cuts, which is equivalent to
more than $1,500 per student on the Ann Arbor campus. Although these cuts have been
met with significant budget cuts throughout the University, the cumulative effect of the
cuts has been enorous and has had a real impact on the academic environment. She
noted that 400 staff positions and 100 faculty positions have been eliminated, which
have had a direct impact on teaching workload, class sizes, course offerings, and
advising and other support services. The University, she observed, is now at a point
where its long-term strength is beingthreatened.
Over the past several years, she noted, the University has kept its tuition increases
as low as possible, hoping that the state's economic situation would stabilize. Even
including the 2005-06 recommendation, the University of Michigan's average tuition
increases over the past five years are among the lowest in the state and in the Big Ten.
President Coleman noted that the University's M-Pact progrm was founded to ensure
that a University of Michigan education would not be out of reach for students with
financial need. The University offers the most financial aid of any institution in the
state, and financial aid for resident undergraduate students will increase at a geater rate
than the tuition increase, with total grant support for resident undergraduates increasing
over 28%.
Recognizing the commitment made by students and their families to the
University, President Coleman pledged that their investment will continue to be of the
highest value and the education received will be of the highest quality. President
Coleman observed that fundraising is critically important to the University's ability to
sustain its quality, and concluded that as president, her most important obligation is to
ensure that quality continues to be the number one return on our stakeholders'
investment.
Ann Arbor Campus 2005-2006 General Fund Operating Budget and Student
Tuition and Fee Rates
Provost Courant displayed revenue and expenditure figures for the General Fund,
Designated Fund, Auxiliary Activities Fund, and Expendable Restricted Fund for all
campuses. Total revenues for 2005-06 will be $4,612,800,000; total expenditures will be
$4,569,500,000. Turning to the Ann Arbor General Fund budget, he summarized the
guiding principles, which include maintaining the outstanding quality of academic
programs; maintaining access to the University; and undertaking other activities that will
efficiently and effectively manage the use of all University resources in support of the first
two principles. He repeated the University's financial aid policy, which is "to meet the
demonstrated financial need of all of its Michigan resident undergraduate students."



July Meeting, 2005

Provost Courant reviewed the scope of the budget challenge, which includes cost
increases of $48.7 million for continuing operations (utilities, facilities costs, salaries,
benefits, inflation), plus $14.9 million for commients and essential initives (faculty
positions, library acquisitions, and vaious other initiatives), for a total budget challenge
of $63.6 million. The budget challenge will be met with $43.5 million in net new
revenue and $20.1 million in reductions and reallocations.
Provost Courant reviewed the recent history of reductions in state appropriation,
which since FY2002 have totaled $48.9 million in base cuts and $20.8 in one-time
budget cuts. The governor's recommended appropriation for 2005-2006 is $5.9 million
less than the 2004-2005 appropriation. He noted that recent internal budget cuts made
to cope with the budget reductions had totaled $37.5million in FY2004, $19.8 million
in FY2005, and $20.1 million in FY2006. He displayed a chart indicating the inverse
relationship between the amount of state appropriation and the increase in tuition, ad a
graph indicating the steadily reduced portion of General Fund revenue that has been
fnded by state appropriation over the years, from almost 80% in the 1960s to about
26% in 2005-06.
Provost Courant compared the University of Michigan's tuition increase to those
of oter Big Ten institutions and other Michigan public institutions, both of which
reflect the economic conditions of the states in which they reside. He also displayed a
chart indicating that 2005-06 tuition and fees are significantly lower for both residents
ad non-residents at Michigan than at any of its peer prvateinstitutions.
The recommended General Fund revenue and expense budget for 2005-2006 is
$1,220,485,00 based on the governor's 2005-2006 recommended appropriation. He
reiterated that the goal of the General Fund Budget recommendation is that Michigan
continue to be among the world's great universities, able to provide incomparable
education for extraordinary students and to help invent the future. He noted, "We owe it
to our students,our families, and those who support us through gifts, grants, and taxes
to do this work efficiently and economically," and concluded, "Doing this work
brilliantly is what this budget is all about."
President Coleman observed that the two regional campuses have been hit harder
by state appropriations reductions than the Ann Arbor campus because state
appropriations make up a larger proportion of their budgets. The recommended
2005-06 student tuition and fee increases for both the Dearborn and Flint campuses is
11.9%, accompanied by corresponding increases in student financial aid.
Dearborn Campus 2005-2006 General Fund Operating Budget and Student
Tuition and Fee Rates
Chancellor Little stated that it has been very difficult to construct budgets during the
past few years in light of the restraints imposed by reduced state appropriations. He noted
that the Dearborn campus shares the Ann Arbor campus's priority of continuing to assure
the highest level of academic excellence possible, to retain accessibility, and to maintain a
supportive work environment for faculty and staff.
Chancellor Little pointed out that the budget provides additional resources for new
faculty in the School of Management, funds equal to a 25% increase in the amount of
student financial aid, a 2% salary program, and support for assuming full management

4



July Meeting, 2005

of the Fairlane Center. Given these priorities and in light of the fact that state support
has dropped by 14% over the past 3 years, he was recommending a student tuition and
fee increase of 11.9%, or about $650 per year for a full-time undergraduate student.
Flint Campus 2005-2006 General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and
Fee Rates
Chancellor Mestas commented that the budget process on the Flint campus is very
open, and everyone who so desires has an opportunit to comment. He said that in view
of the state budget situation, the Flint campus is recommending a tuition and fee increase
of about $340 per semester, or 11.9%. Even with the increase, he pointed out, the
UM-Flint will still be one of the most affordable public universities, and one of the best
educational values, in the state.
Chancellor Mestas commented that the state currently provides only slightly more
than one-thirdof the university's budget, down fom two-thirds several years ago. This
dramatic disengagement from public higher education on the part of the state, he noted,
is especially disappointing in that it is occurring not as a result of a policy decision, but
as a result of short-term decisions on a year-by-year basis. He pointed out that over the
past few yeas, the UM-Flint has instituted more than $4 million in budget cuts, which
has resulted in layoffs, elimination of jobs, salary freezes, cutting of funds for academic
programs, reduction in services, and deferred maintenance. These measures cannot be
sustained indefinitely without compromising the educational quality of the institution.
Chancellor Mestas said that the request includes a 3% salary program,  eant to
compensate in part for the lack of any salary program two years ago.
2005-2006 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly, Student Legal
Services, and School/Colege Governments
Vice President Hper noted that MSA provdes an annual financialreport to the
Regents highlighting expenditures made from the Regentally-approved MSA fees, which
indicates that MSA has been a responsible steward of its funding. The fee request
includes an increase of $.50 for Michigan Student Assembly (from $6.69 to $7.19 per
ter), and an increase of $.50 for Student Legal Seices (SLS) (from $5.50 to $6.00 per
term). No fee increase is requested for school and college governments. The increased
fee es   ted will allow both MSA and SLS to meet the demands fortheir services and
programs.
FY 2006 University Health Service Fee
Vice President Harper noted that the University Health Service (UHS) fee allows
students to have unlimited visits, laboratory testing, X-rays, and other services without
additional out-of-pocket costs, and also provides extensive student health educational
programs across campus. Other revenues come from the pharmacy and services to faculty,
staff, and their dependents. The requested US rate increase of 7.4% ($10.17 per term)
will provide funding for inflationary operating increases, expansion of critical
psychological services, and other needs.

5



July Meeting, 2005

FY 2006 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Operating Budget
Executive Vice President Kelch recognized the work of his leadership te,
including UMHHC director and CEO Larry Warren, Senior Associate Hospital Director
and COO Tony Denton, Medical SchoolDean Allen Lichter, Associate Vice President and
CFO Doug Strong and his associate, Kathleen Moore. He announced that FY2005 was
the fourth consecutive year of operating margin iprovement, wi an expected margin of
5.1% in FY2005. He noted that the UMHC continues to experience high demand for its
services, and staff and faculty are performing at remarkably high levels.
Dr. Kelch said that positive margins are essential for the future health and
well-being of the Health System, and positive margins are achieved tough focusing on
a combination of activity levels, revenue per case, expense per case, and available
capacity. To maintain the required operating margins,the emphasis during FY2006 and
FY2007 will focus on expense management, due to payer concerns and pressure on
capacity.
Dr. Kelch said the UMHHC is forecasting an increase in the number of discharges
and outpatient cases for the coming year. He described how the institution has
increased inpatient capacity during the past three years and how it intends to maage
inpatient growth in the coming years. He reported that the UMHC is forecasting a 4%
operating magin for FY2006, with an 8.2% increasein total operating revenue
calculated mostly on the basis of increased activity rather than on increases in revenue
per case. Because expenses are increasing at a higher rate than revenues, a lower
operating margin is forecast for FY2006 than for FY2007.
Dr. Kelch described the areas of risk affecting the Health Center's ability to
achieve its budget goals for FY2006 as well as plans for mitigating these risks. He
reportedthat the senior leadership would focus on maxmizing throughput within
existing capacity, would implement best practice measurement models along with "lean
management" techniques, would continue to engage the organizationaround efforts
required to achieve margin objectives, and would keep the Board informed of
opportunities to increase capacity for long-term groth. He concluded that this is an
assertive, but achievable budget that would put more focus on expense management
than in the recent past, and requested approval.
FY 2006 Athletic Department Budget
President Coleman called on Athletic Director Bill Martin to present the FY2006
Athletic Deparment budget. Mr. Martin thanked Provost Courant for his supportof the
Athletic Department  ng his term as provost.
Mr. Martin reported that with the help of the priority seating program, the
department has achieved a stable economic model, which has been his number one
priority since assuming the position of athletic director. Two new buildings, the
Academic Center and the Events Center, have achieved their funding goals and will be
completed on time and within budget. Fundraising efforts are continuing for other
capital projects, and studies are being undertaken about renovations to Michigan
Stadium.

6



July Meeting, 2005

Mr. Martin reviewed the status of the Preferred Seating Program, noting that about
93% of season ticket holders in seats subject to the donation chose to pay the donation.
He reported that the Preferred Seating Program has yielded more than $4 million in base
donations and $1.3 million in additional, voluntary donations, and that the departent
has received more than $6 million as a result of the proam. The department's
projected revenues for FY 2004-05 are $75 million, a 10.9% increase over the previous
year, with expenses projected to be $61.5 million. He pointed out that there has been a
budget surplus for each of the past three years. For FY 2005-06 the revenue projection
is $73.3 million, with projected expenses of $63.9 million, leading to another surplus.
He reviewed key questions affecting projections beyond FY2006, as well as
facilities priorities and challenges. Mr. Martin commented that the department has
about $50 millionn reserves, up from about $30 million several years ago, andthat the
department has a relatively modest level of debt, about $6 million.
General Comments - 2005-2006 Revenue and Expenditure Operating Budgets
Executive Vice President Slottow commented on the University's balance sheet,
noting that it is subject to sustained, focused manaement," and that te physical,
financial, and human assets across the University are being very carefully maintained. He
said he has reviewed in detail all of the proposed 2005-06 budgets, and praised the qualit
of the work of staff members who developed the budgets. He also praised Provost
Courant and his tenure as provost, noting, "He has been a great colleague and fiend,
professional and classy. He leaves the University beter academically, bettr financially,
and better physically than it was when he took over this post."
Finally, Mr. Slottow acknowledged the efforts ofstaff at all levels who have led
the effort to provide a higher level of service for a lower base budget throughout the
University.
Comments About Proposed Budgets
Regent Richner noted that the budgets for thethreecampuses are all based on the
governor's recommended budget allocation, even though the legislature has not yet come
to an agreement. He asked what the response would be if the final recommendaon
differs from the one on which the University's proposed budgets are based.
President Coleman responded that Vice President Wilbanks has been closely
following the budget negotiations in the legislature and asked her to comment. Vice
President Wilbanks noted that the state is entering its fourth year of declining higher
education appropriations. She pointed out that in previous years, universities had
agreed to moderate tuition increases in exchange for receiving flat appropriations, only
to have those appropriations cut a few months after the agreement. The assumptions
underlying this year's budget recommendations are based on expectations that the
appropriations for 2005-06 will be very similar to those of the previous year. Thus, the
presumed Ann Arbor Campus appropriation of $314 million is based on sound, prudent
reasoning.
President Coleman stated that even if the final appropriation from the state is
higher or lower than the estimated $314 million on which the budget is based, the
University would not return to the Board and request an djustment to the tuition rate.

7



July Meeting, 2005

She said that contingencies are in place for dealing with a final appropriation that is
either substantially less or more than the expected $314 million. If the amount is less,
adjustments would be made, and if it is more, that would have a bearing on next year's
budget.
Provost Courant said that even after the final appropriation is approved, the
University cannot be certain of the actual amount that will be delivered until the end of
the fiscal yea. Regent Richner stated that if the final appropriationdiffers significantly,
he would like the budget to be returned to the Regents for reconsideration.
President Coleman cautioned that even if the state were to decide on a substantially
higher final figure, there is no guarantee that these funds would not be cut later in the
year. If an increase in the base budget is approved, that would have an impact on the
budget recommendations for the following year.
Regent Richner said thatordinarily, the legislature would haveadopted a budget by
the time the University sets its tuition rate, but Regent White pointed out that this has
not been the case in recent years. President Coleman responded that even if this were a
unique situation, she would still recommend against Regent Richner's request to
reconsider after the final appropiation is approved.
Regent Deitch stated that he strongly supports President Coleman's opinion on this
matter. He notedthat the Regents have had discussions among themselves about their
constitutional obligations and stewardship responsibility, and the most important
considerations for all stakeholders are certainty and stability. He pointed out that the
Board has taken different approaches to coping with declining appropriations over the
past several years, including holding the tuition increase to 2.8%. However, he is
convinced that the University has done a good job with restrained resources, and has
now come up with a budget that "allows Michigan to remain great." In order for the
appropriations situation to change, he said that the legislaure and citizens will have to
come to the consensus that higher education is truly an important priority. So this year's
approach is the best one when viewed in terms of stability, certainty, and a continuum.
He urged the Board to adopt the budget and to resist reconsidering it until next year.
Regent Brandon suggested that in a period of uncertainty, the more certainty the
Board can bringto thesituation, the better. He noted that it is actually very unusual for
any enterpriseto be able to forecast revenues exactly, especially with a budget thislarge
where there will always be some risk. He agrees with the current approach, he said,
because "we have made the best assumption we can, and if we are the beneficiaries of
bad news ad we get less money we are going to flex costs to reflect that reality. And if
we're the beneficiaries of a pleasant surprise, thatputs us in a better position as we enter
next year, and I don't think that's a very bad place for us to be." He commented that a
clear statement is being made to the community that the tuition decision is one they can
count on, as opposed to having a secondary discussion that would take place at some
point in the future.



July Meeting, 2005

Ann Arbor Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee
Rates
Regent Taylor moved approval of the nn Arbor Campus General Fund operating
budget and student tuition and fee rates, as descrbed in the Regents Communication.
RegentWhite seconded the motion.
Regent Richner suggested that if the final appropriation is an increase over the
expected amount, the budget be reconsidered in September and perhaps a reserve be set
aside for future budget uncertainties in order to prevent a dramatic increase in the future.
The objective should be to provide some consistency in the future.
Regent Newman commented that the discussion has highlighted the importance of
the state appropriation to the tuition process, and how that impacts every decision that is
made. The tuition is reasonable in that it lets the legislature and state residents who are
paying tuition see how these two figures are tied together  While she undestands
Regent Richner's suggestion, she supports the majority of the board who would rather
move forward.
President Coleman reiterated that if the state approves a higher appropriation, that
would be a factor in developing next year's budget, as it always is. Shenoted that the
University has always recognized the strong relationship betweentuition and state
appropriation, and the recommended tuition increases would be moderated in the face of
an increased appropriation for the next fiscal year.
Regent White commented that she looks forward to the day when the state gives
the University more money than it has budgeted for, as suggested by Regent Richner.
Regent Newman noted that last year the state had imposed limits on tuition
increases but could not impose limits on cost increases, and these continue to go up.
The current situation, she said, is the result of the state's intervention in tuition-setting.
"We are making up for what happened last year, this year," she said, "to bring this
institution where it needs to be." Regent Newman said she considered very seriously
not voting for the proposed tuition increase, but believes that the provost proved
convincingly that while there have been costincreases, there have also been significant
cost cuts and cost containment.
Regent Newman observed that this is the fourth straightyear of a downward trend
in the state appropriation, and it is not a responsible stance to merely hope that the
situation will improve. She suggested that the University leadership look at how the
General Fund is funded, as this is the fund that is impacted by state appropriation and
tuition and fees. "If we don't start setting aside money to build an endowment to fnd
the General Fund, or doing things that move us away from the General Fund by
endowing more programs and moving them outside the General Fund, we will do this
every year," she said. "Every time the state does not give us as much money as we think
we need, we are going to raise tuition; there is no way around it. Unless we take some
responsibility for this and determine how we plan to solve this problem as we go
forward, we are going to have this same discussion." Regent Newman said she would
not continue to support tuition increases unless she sees measures being undertaken to
decrease the reliance on state appropriations for funding the General Fund.

9



July Meeting, 2005

The vote was then taken on the motion to approve the Ann Arbor Campus General
Fund budget and tuition and fee rates and it was approved unanimously.
Dearborn Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee
Rates
Regent Brandon moved approval of the Dearborn Campus General Fund operating
budget and student tuition and fee rates as described in the Regents Communications.
Regent White seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Flint Campus General Fund Operating Budget and Student Tuition and Fee Rates
Regent White moved approval of the Flint Campus General Fund operating budget
and student tuition and fee rates, as described in the Regents Communications. Regent
Brandon seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
2005-2006 Fee Assessments for Michigan Student Assembly, Student Legal
Services, and School/College Governments
Regent Deitch moved approval of the following fees for 2005-2006: $7.19 per
student per term for Michigan Student Assembly, $6.00 per student per term for Student
Legal Services, and $1.50 per term for school and college governments. Regent  hite
seconded the motion. It was pointed out that these figres represent a total increase in
student fees of $1.00 per student per term.
Regent Newman stated that she would be voting against this proposal on the
grounds that student organizations need toconstrain costs, use resources more
effectively, and raise money just as other units need to do. Regent Rchner commented
that he supports the Student Legal Services fee increase but not the increase for MSA.
The vote was then taken and the motion was approved, with Regent Deitch,
Maynard, Taylor, and White in favorand Regents Brandon, Newman, and Richner
opposed.
FY 2006 University Health Service Fee
Regent Deitch moved approval of the proposed 7.4% increase ($10.17 per student
per term) in the University Health Service Fee. Regent White seconded the motion, and
it was approved unanimously.
FY 2006 University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Operating Budget
Regent Taylor moved approval of the FY2006 University of Michigan Hospitals
and Health Centers (UMHHC) operating budget, as described in the Regents
Communication. Regent White seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Further Comments about the Budget
President Coleman thanked the Board for their support of the budget requests,
especially in light of the very difficult circumstances they were presented with.
Regent Taylor commented that nobody takes any joy in increasing the price of
education, but said that it i iimportant to put tis action into the context of the value
being offered by the University to resident undergraduates. He believes that the rate of
about $9,200 per year constitutes one of the best buys in the United States. In terms of
the market, he said, it is "an absolute bargain," and in absolute terms, he said, "it is an

10



July Meeting, 2005

extremely good buy." He noted that premier private K-12 schools cost far more than
attending the University of Michigan.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning and considered four agenda items. As part of its study
of risk management issues, the committee met with Dr. Robert Todd and Ms. Judith
Nowak, associate vice presidents for research, and Carol Senneff, executive director of
University audits, for a briefing about research compliance. The second agenda item
involved a review of human resource metrics with Laurita Thomas, associate vice
president and chief human resource officer, to begin to gain a greater nderstanding of
trends associated with those important cost elements of the University. The commitee
next conducted the first annual review of the University's lease portfolio, meeting with
Associate Vice President Hank Baer and Mary Krasny, assistant director of plant
extension, real estate, and support services. Lastly, the committee received a bimonthly
update of internal audits, with Carol Senneff and Paul Millis, manager of IT Audits.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee. Regent Taylor reported
that the committee had spent the majority of its session discussing internal affairs of the
committee, developing a list of topics that are within the jurisdiction of the committee
and preparing a preliminary calendar for the next 18 months. These items are still being
vetted within the administration, and will be finalized at the September meeting. The
committee also received a report from President Coleman on the status of ongoing
searches and various other personnel matters.
The Regents then turned to the remainder of the consent agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of June 16, 2005.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, the Regents Quarterly Report on Non-Competitive Purchases
over $5,000 from  Single Sources for March 16-June 15, 2005, and the Human
Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submited the Litigation Report.
Research Report. The Regents received the report of projects established, June
1-June 30, 2005.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Kelch had no
additional report.
Division of Student Affairs. There was no additional report from the Division of
Student affairs.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported on recent and
ongoing activities on the Dearborn campus and highlighted the new degree program
being submitted for approval at this meeting.

11



July Meeting, 2005

University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas reported on a recent visit to the
campus by MSA president Jesse Levine. He also expressed his personal appreciation
and that of the UM-Flint community for Paul Courant's work as provost of the Ann
Arbor campus.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Jesse Levine, president of MSA, noted that
he had received a geat deal of positive feedback about the work being done by MSA.
He reported that MSA's mission is to improve the campus community and significantly
and positively affect campus, and its financial priorities remain to provide ncreased
funding for Student Legal Services and for events and activities for students. He noted
that MSA has established bylaws andguidelines to ensure that its funding processes are
conducted in a viewpoint- and content-neutral fashion. A  ndraising committee will be
launched in the fall with the goal of increasing the proportion of the group's revenues
provided by means oter thanstudent fees. He reported on upcoming MSA activities,
noting that "this is an exciting time for MSA."
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for June 2005, noting that complete reports for June, July, and August, 2005
would be submitted in September.
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted a number of
personnel actions and personnel reports.
Provost Courant said he had just received word that Michigan State University had
approved a tuition increase of 13.5%  for incoming first-year students, with a
corresponding increase in financial aid.
Provost Courant announced that the agenda includes recommendations for the
appointments of seven aculty as distinguished University professors, each of whom has
extraordinary accomplishments: Philip H. Bucksbaum (Physics), Sheldon H. Danziger
(public policy and social work), Sid Gilman (neurology), Donald S. Lopez, Jr. (Buddhist
and Tibet Studies), Joyce Marcus (anthropology), Coimbatore K. Praalad (business),
and Abigail J. Stewart (psychology and women's studies). He also pointed out the
recommended appointment of Janet A. Weiss as dean of the Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studiesand vice provost for academic affairs-graduate studies, and Deborah
Ball as interim dean of the School of Education.
President Coleman called attention to the reappointmentof Alan Saltiel as director
of the Life Sciences Institute
Chancellor Little highlighted recommendations for the reappointment of Thomas
A. Baird as vice chancellor for institutional advancement, and noted the recent
appointment of the director of the Armenian Research Center.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 2005, unless othenwise indicated
Borgers, Tilman, Ph.D., Samuel Zell Professor of the Economics of Risk and Professor of Economics,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Galea, Sandro, M.D., Dr.P.H., Associate Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health

12



July Meeting, 2005

Green, Peter F., Ph.D., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering and Chair of the Department of
Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering
Halloran, M. Elizabeth, M.D., D.Sc., Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health
Hammer, Gary D., M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Associate
Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, and Millie Schembechler
Professor of Adrenal Cancer, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010 (five years as
Schembechler Professor)
Hamstra, Stanley J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Medical Education, Medical School, July 21, 2005
Jin, Jionghua, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Industrial Operations Engineering, College of Engineering
Li, Ben Q., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Chair, Mechanical Engineering
Department, University of Michigan-Dearborn
Metzl, Jonathan M., M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical
School
Michielssen, Eric, Ph.D., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering
Poggi, Gregory, Ph.D., Professor of Theatre and Drama, and Chair, Department of Theatre and Drama,
School of Music, Professor, September 1, 2005, Chair, September 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
Raskin, Lutegarde, Ph.D., Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of Engineering
Shapiro, Scott J., J.D., Ph.D., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, and Professor of Philosophy,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Sheehan, Jonathan, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Smith, Jeffrey A., Ph.D., Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Van Oyen, Mark P., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Industrial and Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENU
Effective on the ates indicated
Hill, Eric J., Ph.D., Professor of Practice in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2010
Hurst, Robert L., B.F.A., Associate Professor of Music (jazzstudies), September 1, 2005-May 31, 2009
Leinberger, Christopher, M.B.A., Professor of Practice in Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Moorefield, Virgil, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Music (performing arts technology), School of Music,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2009
Osler, Peter, B.S., Associate Professor of Practice in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2009
Sanjian, Ara, Ph.D., Associate Professor of History, University of Michigan-Dearborn, September 1, 2005
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMICADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Baird, Thomas A., Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement, University of Michigan-Dearborn,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Baum, David H., Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, Law School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Campbell, Darrell A., Jr., Chief of Staff for Clinical Affairs, University of Michigan Hospitals and Health
Centers, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Croley, Steven P., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, Law School, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2007
Gordan, Virginia B., Assistant Dean for International Programs, Law School, September 1, 2005-August
31, 2008
Harris, Amy S., Director, Exhibit Museum, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2008
Howard, June M., Associate Dean for Interdisciplinary Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, September 1-December 31, 2005
Johnson, Charlotte H., Assistant Dean for Student Affairs, Law School, September 1, 2005-August 31,
2008
Kunkel, Steven L., Associate Dean for Biological Sciences and Life Sciences Initiatives, Horace H.
Rackhanm School of Graduate Studies, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2006
Lantz, Marilyn S., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2010
Loch-Caruso, Rita, Interim Chair, Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public
Health, July 1-August 31, 2005

13



July Meeting, 2005

Nurse, Esrold A., Assistant Dean for Student Academic Affairs, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Saltiel, Alan R., Director of the Life Sciences Institute, September 1, 2005 (open-ended appointment)
Wineman, Jan, Associate Dean for Research, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Dauwe, Loretta J., Chair, Department of Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics,
University of Michigan-Flint, College of Arts & Sciences, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008 (also
Associate Professor of Computer Science, Engineering Science, and Physics, with tenure)
Gross, M. Melissa, Associate Professor of Art and Design, without tenure, School of Art and Design,
September 1, 2005 (also Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology)
Kahn, Margaret, Chair, Department of Political Science, University of Michigan-Flint College of Arts &
Sciences, July 1-December 31, 2005 (also Professor of Political Science, with tenure)
Lantz, Paula M., Chair of the Department of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008 (also Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with
tenure)
Lawand, Jamile T., Chair, Department of Foreign Languages, University of Michigan-Flint College of
Arts & Sciences, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008 (also Associate Professor of Foreign Languages, with
tenure)
Parker, Edith A., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Public Health, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2008 (also Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure)
Siebers, Tobin, Professor of Art and Design, without tenure, School of Art and Design, September 1,
2005 (also Vernon Louis Parrington Collegiate Professor of Literary and Cultural Criticism,
Professor of English, with tenure, and Director, Comparative Literature Program, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts)
Sinopoli, Carla M., Director, Museum of Anthropology, September 1, 2005-June 30, 2008, (also
Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of Anthropology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts)
Smith, Dean G., Senior Associate Dean for Administration, School of Public Health, July 1, 2005-June
30, 2008 (also Chair and Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure)
Walton, Kendall L., Professor of Art and Design, without tenure, School of Art and Design, September 1,
2005 (also Charles L. Stevenson Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, and Professor of Philosophy,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts)
Waters, Christine M., Chair, Department of Communication and Visual Arts, University of
Michigan-Flint College of Arts & Sciences, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008 (also Associate Professor
of Art, with tenure)
Wooldridge, Margaret S., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008 (also Associate Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering)
Zint, Michaela T., Associate Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, September 1,
2005 (also Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure, School of
Natural Resources and Environment)
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Hallak, Juan Carlos, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extension of a one year leave, current date, January 1-May 31, 2006, extension requested
September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Jonsson, Mattias, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extension of a one year leave, current leave, September 1, 2004-May 31, 2005, extension
requested, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Saxonhouse, Gary R., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extension of a one-year leave, current leave dates, January 1-May 31, 2005, extension requested,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Verhoogt, Arthur Mfw., Associate Professor of Papyrology and Greek, with tenure, Department of
Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extension of a one-year leave,
current leave, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2005 extension requested, January 1, 2006-May 31,
2006

14



July Meeting, 2005

ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective August 1, 2005, unless otherwnise indicated
Naming of Existing Collegiate Professorships
Alexander Ziwet Collegiate Professorship in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
Caroline Robbins Collegiate Professorship in Political Science and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2005
D. R. Shackleton Collegiate Professorship in Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
John Rawls Collegiate Professorship in Philosophy and Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Sarah Winans Newman Collegiate Professorship in the Life Sciences, Medical School, July 1, 2005
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Distinguished University Professorships
Bucksbaum, Philip H., Peter Franken Distinguished University Professor of Physics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Danziger, Sheldon H., Henry J. Meyer Distinguished University Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R.
Ford School of Public Policy, September 1, 2005
Gilman, Sid, William J. Herdman Distinguished University Professor of Neurology, Medical School,
September 1, 2005
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Arthur E. Link Distinguished University Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Marcus, Joyce, Robert L. Cameiro Distinguished University Professor of Anthropology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Prahalad, Coimbatore K., Paul and Ruth McCracken Distinguished University Professor of Corporate
Strategy, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September 1, 2005
Stewart, Abigail J., Sandra Schwartz Tangri Distinguished University Professor of Psychology and
Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Appointments to Collegiate Professorships
Beck, Robert F., Herbert C. Sadler Collegiate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Bornstein, George J., C.A. Patrides Collegiate Professor of English, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1, 2005-December 31, 2006
Penner, Joyce E., Aksel Wiin-Nielson Collegiate Professor of Atmospheric Sciences, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2005-August 31,2010
White, James Boyd, L. Hart Wright Collegiate Professor of Lw, Law School, September 1, 2005-August
31,2010
Wight, James K., Frank E. Richart, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Bulkley, Jonathan W., Peter M. Wege Endowed Professor of Sustainable Systems, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2010
Ethiraj, Sendil, Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Goldstein-Gidoni, Ofra, Toyota Visiting Professor of Japanese Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, Septeber 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Hanlon, Michelle L., Bank One Corporation Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Stephen M.
Ross School of Business, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Lafontaine, Francine, Jack D. Sparks - Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of Business
Administration, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2007
Lorenz, ChristoffFrederik Gijsbert, The Netherlands Visiting Professor of History, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Price, Richard H., Barger Family Professor of Organizational Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Smooha, Sammy, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005

15



July Meeting, 2005

Warfield, Ted A., Marshall M. Weinberg Endowed Distinguished Visiting Professor of Philosophy,
ColIege of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 3 1_p2 0 05
Reapointinents to Collegiate Pr-ofessorships
Green, Thomas A., John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2010
Regan, Donald HL, William W. Bishop, Jr., Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 20 10
Vining, Joseph, Harry Bums Hutchins Collegiate Professor of Law, Law School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2010
Reappohintments to NamedProfessorships
Herzog, Donald J., Edson R. Sunderland Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2005-August 3 1,
2010
Reimann, Mathias W., Hessel E. Yntema Professor of L.aw, Law School, September 1, 2005-August 31,
20 10
Reaypointments to Endlowed Pro fessorships
Kaplan, Rachel, Samuel Trask Dana Professor of Environment and Behavior, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, June 1, 2005-May 31.,2010 
Levinson, Marjorie, Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor, College ofLiterature, Science, and the Arts, July
1, 2005-June 301 2010
Palincsar, Annemarie Sullivan, Jean and Charles R. Walgreen, Jr. Professor of Reading and Literacy,
School of EducationJulyI1, 2005-June 30, '2010
Witter, John A., George Wk'illis Pack Professor of Forest Entomology, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2010
Other Transactions
Interim appointment approval during August, Authorization for approving necessary appointments for the
period August 1-3 1, 2005 )
Abel, Richard, Interim Director, Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1-August 3 1,_2005
Ball, Deborah LoewNlenberg, Interim Dean, School of Education, July 1, 2005
Buresh, Tom J., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Kapuscinski, Roman, Gof Smith Co-Director of the Joel D. Tauber ManufacturingInstitute, Stephen M.
Ross School of Business, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Lubman, David M., from Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, to Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, Professor of Chemistry, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1, 2005, and Maude T. Lane Professor of Surgical
Immunology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, correction of title to the Mary Frances Berry Collegiate Professor of History,
American Culture, and Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2003-August 31, 2008 (currently Mary Frne Ber  Colleiate Proessor of Historya, Amrian
Culture, also Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of American Culture, with tenure, and
Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure)
Weiss, Janet A., Dean, Horace H. Racchar School of Graduate Studies, and Vice Provost for Academic
Affairs-Graduate Studies, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic AffairFS
August 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Advsoy Bar on~fl_ Itercollegiatee Athletics
Kisnnarf Thomsra C.,; reapointment,!July 1, g!20i05-June 30-, 2008 (corrction to term of previous~ly
Abed, Wadad K1., retrioactive, new appointment, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Ams~ter, Cazrol L.,, retroactive, new ap~pointmet~n, July 1, 20)05-June 309, 2008
Buckler, Robert J., retroactivie, new appointment, July 1, a2005-June 30, 2008
Davis, Hal, retroactive, reatp~pointment, Ju~lyP 1, 2005s-June 30, 2008
DiCarflo), Sally Stegeman, retractive, reappointment, July 1, 20105-June~ 310, 2008

16



July Meeting, 2005

Dodd, Cynthia M., retroactive, new appointment, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Mial, Joetta, retroactive, new appointment, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Newton, Roger, retroactive, new appointment, July 1,2005-June 30, 2008
Power, Philip H., retroactive, reappointment, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Schulak, Edward R., retroactive, new appointment, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Collee of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee
Allen, James W., September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008, vice Andreas R. Blass, term expired
Lopez, Donald S., Jr.m September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008, vice Sarah G. Thomason, term expired
Smith-Rosenberg, Carroll, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006, vice Donald S. Lopez, Jr., on leave
Becker, Jill B., September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006, vice Judith T. Ivine, on leave
School ofDentistr Executive Committee
Eber, Robert M., November 1, 2005-October 31, 2008, vice Paul H. Krebsbach, term expired
Kerschbaum, Wendy E., November 1, 2005-October 31, 2008, vice Dennis E. Lopatin, term expired
PERSONNEL REPORTS
Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OFREGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Babbar, Anjili, M.A., Instructor in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Letters, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2008
Buckley, Martha L., M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Campbell, Scott W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor ofCommunication Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Chang, Robert, M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Cho, Robert W., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July
1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Cho, Suzanne T., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Cooke, Jeremy L., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June
30, 2005
Cookinham, Sarah, M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2007
DeGenaro, William, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Composition and Rhetoric, UM-Dearborn College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Etzion, Hila, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Business Information and Technology, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Even, Tirtza, M.A., AssistantProfessor of Art, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2005-May 31,
2008
Friedman, Darci H., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Frye, David L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Gelehrter, Sarah K., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1,
2005-June 30, 2006
Handeyside, Sarah C., M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Hessler, Jill, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Johnson, Victoria, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Organizational Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Kansal, Mayank M., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Kaye, G. Donald, M.S., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Letters, May 1-June 30, 2005
Keena, Daniel T., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Khodaee, Morteza, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 1-December 31,
2005
Kramer-Hajos, Margaretha T., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Lassig, Jeffrey P., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006

17



July Meeting, 2005

Lau, Christine L., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 25, 2005-August 31, 2006
Leavitt, MatthewA., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Lotz, Amanda D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Lyons, Matthew R., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
MacLean, Ray, B.M.E., Lecturer in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Letters, May 1-June 30, 2005
Mendez, Michael P., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Miller, Elizabeth C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Misek, Victoria L., B.A., Assistant Professor of Airforce Officer Education Program, Air Force Officer
Education Program, June 2, 2005-June 30, 2008
O'Mahen, Heather A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Dearbon College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1,2005-April 30, 2006
Owens, Scott R., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Parthasarathy, Shobita, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Rectenwald, John E., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery and Clinical Assistant Professor of
Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Repaskey, William T., M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Rosenberg, Noah A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Human Genetics, Medical School, June 20, 2005-June
30, 2007
Rosenberg, Sharon R., M.D., Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 12, 2005-August
11,2006
Saad, Richard J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Senapati, Sangeeta, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, July 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Tarrazzi, Daler E., D.D.S., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Tootla, Ruwaida G.H., M.Dent., Clinical Assistant Professo of Pediatric Dentistry, School of Dentistry,
April 1, 2005-March 31, 2008,
Torres, Joanne M., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, August 8,
2005-August 7, 2006
Yunghans, Megan K., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and CommunicableDiseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Cox, Amanda M., from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical
School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Danziger, Sheldon H., from Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, and Professor of Public
Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, to Professor of Public Policy with
tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Luan, Fu-Lung, from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor in Internal
Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2009
Mankouche, Steven Y., from Lecturer in Architecture to Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2009
Oaklander, Lester N., from Professor of Philosophy, with tenure and Professor of Extended Learning
Office, without tenure, to Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, June 1, 2005
Partridge, Damani J., from Lecturer II in Anthropology to Assistant Professor of Anthropology and
Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African Studies, Center for Afro-American and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Pelletier, Shawn J., from Clinical Lecturer in Surgery to Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School,
July 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Pickens, Allan, from Clinical Lecturer in Surgery to Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical
School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Salisbury, Linda C., from Instructor in Management Studies to Assistant Professor of Management
Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Management, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2008

18



July Meeting, 2005

Schroth, Anne N., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Law to Clinical Professor of Law, Law School,
September 1, 2005-August 2012
Travers, Martha, from Lecturer I in English, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and Arts
to Lecturer I in English, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and Arts, and Lecturer
in Music, School of Music, September 1-December 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bilello, John C., Professor Emeritus of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering, July
I-December 31, 2005
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering
and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, June 1-August 31, 2005
Karopp, Bruce H., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
June 1-June 30, 2005
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering, June 1-October 31, 2005
Richards, James W., Professor Emeritus of Social and Administrative Sciences, College of Pharmacy,
June 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Robinson, Emerson, Professor Emeritus of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULARINSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Aamot, Kirk C., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Alexander, Lois L., Associate Professor of Music, withtenure, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Amerine, Frederick R., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Ats, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Anderson, Barbara A., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September I-December 31, 2005
Anderson, Donald F., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Arts and Sciences
UM-Dearbo, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Angulo-Barroso, Rosa M., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Baird, Darryl G., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, College of Arts and Sciences UM-Flint,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Bandt, Kerstin, Assistant Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Barr, Michael S., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, outside teaching leave, September 1-December
31, 2005
Barvinok, Alexandre I., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, September I-December 31, 2005
Bissell, R. Ward, Professor of History of Art, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2005, and retirement furlough, January 1-December
31, 2006
Bix, Robert A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Boccaccini, Gabriele, Associate Professor of Early Christianity, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,2005
Botti, Susan, Assistant Professor of Music (composition), School of Music, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2005-March 31, 2006
Brusati, Celeste A., Professor of History of Art and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2005
Campbell, John C., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006, and retirement furlough, September 1,
2005-May 31,2007
Ceballo, Rosario E., Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2005

19



July Meeting, 2005

Cole, Joshua H., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Cooper, Edward H., Thomas M. Cooley Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Cope, Virgil W., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Arts and Sciences UM-Flint, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Dowd, Gregory E., Professor of American Culture, with enure, and Professor of History, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Endelman, Todd M., William Haber Professor of Modern Jewish History and Professor of History, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
2005, and duty off campus January 1-May 31, 2006
Erickson, Donna L., Associate Professor of Natural Resources, with tenure, School of Natural Resources
and Environment and Associate Professor of Urban Planning, without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning, personal leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Fraass, Benedick A., Professor of Radiation Physics, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
January 1-July 15-2005
Gidley, David W., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Gingerich, Philip D., Ermine Cowles Case Collegiate Professor of Paleontology, Professor of Geological
Sciences, with tenure, and Professor of Anthropology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, March 13-May 1, 2005
Goldman, Rachel S., Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, and
Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of
Enginrieng, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Goldstein, Laurence A., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Goold, Susan D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
February 1-July 31, 2006
Halberstam, Daniel H., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2005
Hancock, David J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Hasen, David M., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, outside teaching leave, September
1-December 31, 2005
Hell, Julia C., Associate Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Herbig, Anne-Katrin, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
House, James S., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Howse, Robert L., Alene and Allan F. Smith Professor of Law and Professor of Law, withtenure, Law
School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-December 31, 2005
Hutchings, Vincent L., Associate Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Jonsson, Mattias, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Katz, Ellen D., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
2005
Kauper, Thomas E. Henry M. Butzel Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
retirement furlough, January 1, 2006-May 31, 2008
Keane, E. Webb, Jr., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September1,2005-May 31, 2006
Kyes, Robert L., Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1, 2004-December 31, 2004
Khan, Asra S., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, personal leave, July 1-July 31, 2005
King, Larry, Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Kirking, Duane M., Professor of Social and Administrative Science, with tenure, College of Pharmacy,
retirement furlough, June 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
Kirsch, Stuart A., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1-December 31, 2005
Lacy, Karyn R., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31,
2005

20



July Meeting, 2005

Larsen, Finn, Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2005
Lehman, John T., Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Carl W. Belser Collegiate Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies and Professor
of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Losman, Eve D., Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, child care leave, June 17-June 30,
2005
Mackinnon, Catharine A., Elizabeth A. Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Mendelson, Nina A., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, September 1-December
31, 2005
Michailidis, George, Associate Professor of Statistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2005
Miller, William I., Thomas G. Long Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Moukouri, Samuel M., Assistant Professor of Applied Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2005
Myers, Steven F., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Nisbett, Richard E., Theodore M. Newcomb Distinguished University Professor of Psychology and
Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Paris, Scott G., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Park, Albert F., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Perry, Julie S., Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, child care leave, May 19-June
13, 2005
Pincus, Leslie B., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Pritchard, Adam C., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Puff, Helmut, Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Ramirez-Christensen, E., Professor of Japanese Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, research leave, September 1-May 31, 2006
Rex, Lesley A., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Robertson, Jennifer E., Professor of Anthropology and Women's Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Ar, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2005
Root, Margaret C., Professor of Classical and Near Eastern Art and Archaeology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-May 31, 2006
Rose, Sonya O., Natalie Zemon Davis Collegiate Professor of History, Sociology, and Women's Studies,
and Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Sanok, Catherine, Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, and Assistant Professor of
Women's Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2006
Shah, Gaurang V., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, personal leave, April 1,
2005-March 31, 2006
Stein, Louise K., Professor of Music (musicology), with tenure, School of Music, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Taylor, Dorceta E., Associate Professor of Environmental Sociology, with tenure, School of Natural
Resources and Environment and Associate Professor of Afro-American and African Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December
31, 2005
Trumpey, Joseph E., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2005
Urba, Susan, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, November 1, 2005-April
30, 2006

21



July Meeting, 2005

Vazquez, Roland, Lecturer in Music (jazz and improvisation), School of Music, and Lecturer I in
American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September
1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Von Moltke, Johannes E., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and
Associate Professorof Film and Video Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Waggoner, Lawrence W., Lewis M. Simes Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Weder, Alan B., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, January
1-June 30, 2006
Werner, Earl E., Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2004
West, Edward, Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave, January 1-May
31, 2005
Westen, Peter K., Frank G. Millard Professor of Law and Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School,
outside teaching leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Wooley, Trevor D., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Wu, Sijue, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2005
Zayas, Leopoldo A. Pando, Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2005
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVE OF ABSENCES GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Coronil, Femando, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of History,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave, January 1-May 31, 2005,
previously reported as sabbatical leave
Rutowski, Patricia A., Lecturer in N ing, School of Nursing, School of Nursing and Lecturer I in First
Year Seminars, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, September 1,
2004-May 31, 2006, phased, previously reported as retirement furlough, September 1, 2004-May
31, 2005
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Raudenbush, Stella L., Instructor in Education, School of Education, May 21, 2005
Resigned
Basu, Susanto, Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2005
Berkowitz, Sharon G., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June 28, 2005
Bhatnagar, Seema, Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2005
Butz, David A., Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, May 31, 2005
Chen, Jian-Jun, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Coleman, Andrew M., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2005
DaFonseca, Marcio A., Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 8, 2005
Dinec, Ihsan S., Assistant Professor of Finance, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, May 31, 2005
Director, Stephen W., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
June 30, 2005
Fluent, Thomas E., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, July 5, 2005
Fort, Timothy L., Associate Professor of Business Law, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
June 30, 2005
Gharpurey, Ranjit, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, August 31, 2005
Guerra, Ingrid J., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, University of
Michigan-Dearborn, June 30, 2005

22



July Meeting, 2005

Gupta, Sudheer, Assistant Professor of Operations Management, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
May 31, 2005
Hays, Jude C., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, August 31, 2005
Lento, Rochelle E., Clinical Professor of Law, Law School, May 31, 2005
Miller, Cathleen L., Assistant Professor of Accounting, School of Management, University of
Michigan-Flint, May 31, 2005
Nidiffer, Jana, Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, May 31, 2005
Nuffer, Gerhard F., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, and Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2005
Ralston, Steven M., Professor of Communication, with tenure, College of the Arts and Sciences,
University of Michigan-Flint, May 31, 2005
Schonle, Andreas X., Associate Professor ofPre-Nineteenth Century Russian Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Velleman, J. David, GEM Anscombe Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, James B. and Grace J. Nelson
Professor of Philosophy, and Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Verdery, Katherine M., Eric R. Wolf Professor of Anthropology and Professor of Anthropology, with
tenure, May 31, 2005
Walters, Julianne M., Lecturer II in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2005
Wilson, Jessica M., William Wilhartz Assistant Professor of Philosophy and Assistant Professor of
Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Retired
Berent, Stanley, Professor of Psychology, Department of Psychiatry, with tenure, Professor of
Psychology, Department of Neurology, without tenure, Medical School, Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Psychology,
Department of Environmental Health Sciences, without tenure, School of Public Health, June 30,
2005
Collin, Claudia R., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, University of
Michigan-Dearborn, June 30, 2005
Hayashi, Robert H., J. Robert Wilson Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics and Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Hirschfeld, Lawrence A., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 31, 2005
Johnson, Richard A., Clinical Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, May 31, 2005
Johnston, Lysle E., Jr., Professorof Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, May 31, 2005
Maehr, Martin L., Professor of Education, without tenure, School of Education, July 31, 2005
Pahucki, Gena R., Clinical Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, August
31, 2005
Pollack, Henry N., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2005
Reame, Nancy E., Rhetaugh Graves Dumas Professor of Nursing, and Professor of Nursing, with tenure,
School of Nursing, August 31, 2005
Stross, Jeoffrey K., Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Turner, Dennis F., Clinical Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, June 30, 2005
Term Connleted
Caspari, Rachel, Lecturer III in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Eisenberg, Diane E., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, May 31, 2005
Gira, Amy K., Clinical Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Irmak, Elmas, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August
31, 2005
Rozinski, Thomas G., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, June 30, 2005
CANCELLATION OF
TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Rutowski, Patricia A., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, and Lecturer I in First Year Seminars,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, previously reported as retired May 31, 2005

23



July Meeting, 2005

Claudia R. Collin, Ph.D., assistant professor of education in the School of
Education at the University of Michigan-Dearbor, retired from active faculty status on
June 30, 2005.
Professor Collin obtained her B.S. degree from St. Bonaventure University in
1961, her M.A. degree from New York University in 1964, her specialist degree in
special education from Fairfield University in 1970, and her Ph.D. degree in learing
disabilities from Northwester University in 1973. She taught special education at
Northeastern Illinois University from 1971-73, was assistant professor of special
education and progra director of MSE-Learning Disabilities at the University of
Wisconsin from 1973-79, and continued her career as assistant professor of special
education at Wayne State University from  1979-82. Professor Collin joined the
University of Michigan-Dearbor faculty as an adjunct lecturer in 1984, was appointed
to the faculty full time as a lecturer in 1989, and was promoted to assistant professor in
2001.
During her career at the University, Professor Collin developed and taught courses
in educational psychology, strategies, reading and language arts, and special education.
She sered as the faculty advisor for the Gamma Iota chapter of Phi Lambda Theta fro
1986-98 and as the program coordinator for the graduate M.Ed. progam (1995-2004)
and the M.A.T. program (2001-04). She served on numerous comittees and has been
a foundation for the School of Education's educaional psychology courses. Professor
Collin has been a dedicated employee of the School of Education and the University.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Claudia R. Collin
assistant professor emerita of education.
Robert H. Hayashi, M.D., J. Robert Willson Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics
and professor of obstetrics and gynecology in the Medical School, retired from active
faculty status on June 30, 2005, after a most productive career as an administrator,
teacher, mentor, and clinician.
Dr. Hayashi received his A.B. degree from the University of California-Berkeley in
1959 and his M.D. degree fom Temple University in 1963. He was a U.S. Army
surgeon in Germany from 1964-66, completed his residency in obstetrics and
gynecology at the University of Michigan from 1966-70, and served as a National
Institutes of Health fellow in the Departent of Biochemisty at the University of
Pittsburgh from 1970-72. In 1972, he joined the University of Texas faculty as an
assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the Health Science Center in San
Antonio, and in 1983 he wasappointed chief of obstetrics at Harbor-UCLA Medical
Center and adjunct professor at the University of California-Los Angeles. Dr. Hayashi
joined the University of Michigan faculty as professor of obstetrics and gynecology and
chief of the Division of Materal-Feta Medicine in 1985, and he was named the first J.
Robert Willson Collegiate Professor of Obstetrics in 1990.
During his career, Dr. Hayashi made extensiv contributions to the medic field
by publishing innumerable peer-reviewed articles and contributing many chapters to the
medical literature. He regularly participated in resident and medical student education,
and as a committed clinician, he provided outstanding care to his patients. Dr. Hayashi
has been an active member of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists,
the American Institute of Ultrasonic Medicine, the Society of Perinatal Obstetricians/
Society for Maternal-Feta Medicine, the Society for Gynecologic Investigation, and the
International Society for the Study of Hypertension in Pregnancy.

24



July Meeting, 2005

The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated service
by naming Robert H. Hayashi professor emeritus of obstetrics and gynecology.
Lawrence A. Hirschfeld, Ph.D., professor of anthropology and professor of
psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and faculty associate in
the Research Center for Group Dynamics, Institute forSocial Research, retired from
active faulty status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Hirschfeld received his A.B. degree from the University of Michigan
in 1971 and his M.A., M.Phil, and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia University in 1975,
1977, and 1984, respectively. Hewas a visiting assistant professor at the University of
Michigan from 1989-91, and was appointedassistant professor of anthropology in 1991
and faculty associate in 1993. In 1996, he was promoted to associate professor of
anthropology and received an additional appointment as associate professor of
psychology; he was promoted to professor in 2004.
Professor Hirschfeld is a major inteational figure in both anthropology and
cognitive psychology, whose research has broken new ground in articulating
fundamental relationships between these two areas. He explored core teoretical ideas
at the intersection of the two fields and developed a ground-breaking theory of the
psychological grounding of race and raciaization, a concept with far-reaching
significance.
Professor Hirschfeld's publications have helped  ame the rlationship between
innately specified constraints on cognition and culturally and historically specific
categories in a way that does justice to both. His landmark book, Race in the  aking,
made a major contribution to understanding the ways young children conceive of race
and their ntealization of racial and ethnic prejudice, and his reseach on theculture of
children is a simultaneous challenge to anthropology (in seeing children as active
shapers of the transmission of cultural and social forms) and psychology (in seeing
cultural, social, and organizational dimensions to developmental processes). Based on
his work, Professor Hirschfeld calls for ethnography of children's culture as a step
toward understanding the ways in which culture and cognition interact in development.
The Regents salute thisdistinished scholar by naming Lawrence A. Hirschfeld
professor emeritus of anthropology and professor emeritus of psychology.
Richard A. Johnson, D.D.S., clinical professor of dentistry in the School of
Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Dr. Johnson received his D.D.S. and M.S. degrees from the University of Michigan
in 1967 and 1973, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a
clinical instructor in 1970 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1973, clinical
associate professor in 1995, and clinical professor in 2002.
An active participant in the orthodontics department and in the School of Dentistry,
Dr. Johnson made numerous contributions in teaching, administrative, and clinical
activities. He was director of the graduate orthodonic clinic and of the orthodontic
program for pediatric dentistry residents, program director of predoctoral orthodontics,
and coordinator of the gaduate orthodontic clinical instructor teaching progam. He
served on nu    ous committees, including the school's executive committee, the
associate dean and dean search advisory committees, the faculty practice advisory
committee, the preclinical academic committee, the curriculum  committee, the
nominations and elections committee, and the continuing education committee. Dr.
Johnson was also a discipline coordinator for the vertically integrated clinics and

25



July Meeting, 2005

president of the Chi Chapter of Omicron Kappa Upsilon, the national dental honor
society. He served on many gaduate theses committees and was a student research
mentor for the American Association of Dental Research.
Dr. Johnson is a member of the American Dental Association and the American
Dental Education Association, the American Association of Orthodontists, the Great
Lakes Association of Orthodontists, the Michigan Dental Association, and the Michigan
Association of Orthodontists. He has volunteered his time with the Washtenaw
Children's Dental Clinic, the Washtenaw District Dental Society, and the Washtenaw
Community College Dental Assisting Program.
The Regents salute this distingished health sciences educator by naming Richard
A. Johnson clincal professor emeritus of dentistry.
Lysle E. Johnston, Jr., D.D.S., Ph.D., professor of dentistry in the School of
Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Dr. Johnston received his D.D.S. and M.S. degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1961 and 1964, respectively, and his Ph.D. degree from Case Western
Reserve University in 1970. He was on the faculty at Case Western Reserve University
from 1964-76 and at St. Louis University from 1976-91. Dr. Johnston joined the
University of Michigan faculty as the Robert W. Browne Professor of Dentistry,
professor of dentistry, and chair of the Department of Orthodontics and Pediatc
Dentistry in 1991.
For the past 30 years, Dr. Johnston has studied the differential effects of various
orthodontic treatments and mechanisms of facial growth and the nature of the
interaction beeen the groth and treatment. He has advised approximately 100
master's thesis students and contributed to the education of more than 300 orthodontic
specialists. Dr. Johnston has delivered the Mershon, Salzmann, and Heritage Lectures
of the American Association of Orthodontics, the Angle Memorial Lecture of the
Edward H. Angle Society of Orthodontics, the Northcroft Lecture of the British Society
for the Study of Orthodontics, and the Arthur Thornton Taylor Memorial Lecture of the
Australian Society of Orthodontists. He is a fellow of the American College of
Dentistry and the Inteational College of Dentistry and is was elected a fellow in dental
surgery by the Royal College of Surgeons in England. Dr. Johnston serves on the
editorial boards of a number of orthodontic journals, including the American Journal of
Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopedics. He was a member of the oral biology and
medicine study section of the National Institutes of Health and director of the Edward
H. Angle Society of Orthodontics. Dr. Johnston has received numerous honors, most
notably the Albert H. Ketcham Award of the American Board of Orthodontics, the 5th
International Award of the Italian Society, and the Dewel Award of the American
Association of Orthodontics.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Lysle E.
Johnston, Jr., professor emeritus of dentistry.
Theodore Morrison, associate professor of conducting, retired from active
faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Morrison began his professional career at the age of 19 as
organist-choirmaster at Baltimore's Cathedral of the Incarnation, a post he held from
1962-71. In 1967, he founded the Baltimore Choral Arts Society, which, under his
direction, became one of the foremost community choral ensembles in the United
States. During his sixteen seasons with the Society, Professor Morrison frequently

26



July Meeting, 2005

guest-conducted the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, the Concerto Soloists Chamber
Orchestra of Philadelphia, and the Pro  sica Rara. From 1975-78 he was director of
choirs and conductorof the chamber orchestra at Peabody Conservatory of Music, and
from  1981-87 he was associate professor of music at Smith College. Professor
Momrson joined the University of Michigan faculty as an associate professor in 1987.
As a composer of choral music, Professor Momison contributed several
significant works, including an overture, a ymphonic poem, chamber pieces for winds
and strings, a synagogue service for chorus and ch ber orchestra, several lage works
for chors and orchestra, a sonata and a set of vaiations for orga, three song cycles, and
numerous smaller choral pieces. His major works have been performed by the Choral
Arts Society of Washington  ith the National Symphony Orchestra in the Kennedy
Center, the Milwaukee Symphony Orchesa, the Cincinnati MayFestival Chorus with
the Cincinnati Brass, the Norman Scribner Choir, and the Orphei Drger Choir of
Uppsala, Sweden, and he has directed a preiere of one of his works at the Aspen Music
Festival. In 2002, a CD recording of his organ and choral works was released on the
Equilibrium label. His newest song cycle, "Chamber Music" (on poems by James Joyce),
was premiered by the eminent duo of countertenor David Daniels and pianist Mtin Katz
in a twelve-city American tour that concluded in an acclaimed performancein Carnegie
Hall. Daniels and Katz performed the cycle in a European tour in 2004 and again in 2005
in both North America and Europe, and it was broadcst troughout the Uted Kingdom
on BBC television.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming TheodoreMorrison
associate professor emeritus of conducting.
Mary E. Periard, Ph.D., director of nursing and associate professor of nursing
in the School of Health Professions and Studies at the University of Michigan-Flint, will
retire from active faculty status on August 15, 2005.
Professor Periard received her R.N./B.S.N. and M.S. degrees from the
University of Michigan in 1977 and 1980, respectively, and her Ph.D. degree from
Michigan State University in 1989. She joined the University of Michigan faculty as a
lecturer in 1980 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1989 and associate professor
in 1992. She was appointed interim director of the nursingprogram in 1989, associate
director in 1995, and director in 2001, and she seved as interim dean of the School of
Heath Professions and Stdies from 1998-2001.
Professor Periard's work focused on areas that contributed to the practice of
nursing: home care services, school nursing, family care-giving, and most recently, the
development of a model for teaching individuals and groups how to do a breast
self-exam. In her role as inter  dean of the School of Health Professions and Studies,
she oversaw the development of the school code and standing rules and the first faculty
clinical track, and she was instrumental in securing the Mott Foundation grant for the
newly-developed Urban Health and Wellness Center. During her tenure as director of
nursing, the department's research emphasis was increased, a new B.S.N. curricul
was implemented, the online R.N./B.S.N. program was developed and implemented, the
master's program was expanded to include an R.N.M.S.N. track, and a tuition
reimbursement model and faculty workload model were established. Professor Periard
also played a major role in the R.N./B.S.N. studies program becoming autonomous from
the program on the Ann Arbor campus in 1989 and in the merger with the Hurley
School of Nursing that created the UM-Flint/Hurley Medical Center B.S.N. program.

27



July Meeting, 2005

The Regents now salute this distinguished nursing leader for her dedicated
service by naming Mary E. Periard associate professor emerita of nursing.
Henry N. Pollack, Ph.D., professor of geological sciences in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Pollack received his A.B. degree from Cornell University in 1958, his
M.S. degree from the University of Nebraska in 1960, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1960. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
assistant professor in 1964 and was promoted to associate professor in 1967 and
professor in 1974.
Professor Pollack's principal research efforts have addressed Earth's internal
heat and how the planet has cooled over time. This work included field measurements
of borehole temperature profiles in North and South America and Africa and culminated
in a compilation and analysis of over 24,000 heat flow measurements taken over 60% of
the world in both continental and oceanic terrains. The analysis provided a global
picture of the spatial variations in heat flow at the surface of Earth's crst and was
relevant to a wide range of geological disciplines. As chair of the International Heat
Flow Commission between 1991-95, Professor Pollack was influential in directing
much of the geothermal community toward a new        field of study, borehole
paleoclimatology, that uses temperatures from terrestrial boreholes to reconstruct
historical climate changes. His work in this new area has helped characterize the many
dynamic processes that couple the atmosphere and continental sufce and has provided
importantnew evidence in ongoing attempts to characterize past and present global
climate change.
Professor Pollak has taught at every level of the curriculum, fom introductory
undergraduate courses to specialized graduate seminars. He was chair, fouder, and
chief organizer of the Alumni Advisory Board, editor of the department newsletter,and
a public figure for the geological sciences department. He was also an advisor to the
National Science Foundation and the White House, testified before Congress, and
helped leadinternational efforts to coordinate research in global climate change. In
2003, he published Uncertain Science, Uncertain World, a work on scientific
uncertainty written for a non-science audience.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Henry N. Pollack
professor emeritus of geological sciences.
Nancy E. Reame, Ph.D., the Rhetaugh Graves Dumas Professor of Nursing and
professor of nursing in the School of Nursing and research professor in the
Reproductive Sciences Program, will retire from active faculty status on August 31,
2005.
Professor Reame received her B.S.N. degree from Michigan State University in
1969 and her M.S.N. and Ph.D. degrees from Wayne State University in 1974 and 1977,
respectively. She joined the University of Michigan faculty as associate professor in
1980 and was promoted to professor in 1990. She was appointed research scientist in
1992 and promoted to research professor in 2004. She was named the Rhetaugh Graves
Dumas Professor of Nursing in 2000.
Beginning with her master's project on the genetics of infertility, which was
published in the New England Journal of Medicine, Professor Reame has focused on
reproductive sciences. Nationally, she has served on many National Institutes of Health
panels, including the prestigious Women's Health Initiative, and on Food and Drug

28



July Meeting, 2005

Administration safety review boards and executive boards of the leading women's
health research organizations. For her contbutions to the improved understanding of
the neuroendocrinology of the menstrual cycle, Professor Reame was elected to the
Institute of Medicine in 1997 and was named a fellow ofthe American Association for
the Advancement of Science in 2001.
Within the University, Professor Reame has served on the executive committees
of the School of Nursing, the Reproductive Sciences Program, the Life Sciences, Values
and Society Program, the Michigan Initiative for Women's Health, and the University
Hospitals Clinical Research Center.  She was director of the National Center for
Infertility Research and served on the Committee on Honorary Degrees and on selection
committees for the Distinuished University Professorship and the Henry Russell
Lecturer. Shewas a senior fellow in the Society of Fellows and paicipated in the
"Road Scholars" progam. In 1991, Professor Reame received the Distinguished
Faculty Award, and to date she remains the only woman to have served as president of
the University's Research Club.
The Regents now salute this distinguished nursing educatorfor her dedicated
service by naming Nancy E. Reame professor emerita of nursing and research professor
emerita.
Robert A. Wolfe, Ph.D., professor of biostatistics in the School of Public Health,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2005.
Professor Wolfe received his B.A. degree from Oberlin College in 1968. After
serving with the Peace Corps in Liberia from 1969-72, he eared his M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from Stanford University in 1973 and 1978, respectively. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in 1977 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1982 and professor in 1992.
Professor Wolfe's legacy includes original contributions to statistical methodology
as well as evidence-based investigations that have provided key results for major
scientific and policy issues. His work involves all aspects of research, including
transformation of hypothesesinto relevant study designs and development of valid data
collection instruments. He has also been involved withdatabase design, project
management and coordination, appropate statistical analyses, and the communication
of research results.
For more than 25 years, Professor Wolfe has collaborated with medical researchers
from around the world on the subject of renal failure and renal replacement therapy.
From 1988-97, he was co-principal investigator and director of biostatistics for the
United States Renal Data System  (USRDS), which was funded by the National
Institutes of Health, and from 1997-99 he served as the director of the USRDS. He is
co-director of the United States Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients and
co-investigator on the Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patters Study, and he has
published extensively, including seminal work on dialysis treatments and outcomes,
transplant outcomes, and standardized mortality ratios.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Robert A. Wolfe
professor emeritus ofbiostatistics.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents
this month.

29



July Meeting, 2005

Degrees. Provost CoCourant submitted for approval the August 2005 doctoral degree
list, final degree lists for the Spring 2005 commencements, and changes to previously
approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
University Real Estate Policy: Annual Report on Leases Exceeding 50,000 Square
Feet
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the first annual report on all leases in
which the total square footage being leased in a particular building or in a related
complex of buildings exceeds 50,000 square feet, as required by the recently approved
University Real Estate Policy.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Merit Energy Company)
Executive Vice President Slottow reported on the University's recent follow-on
investment commitment to Merit Energy Partners X, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitments (CP Investment Fund II, L.P., Rockwood Capital
Real Estate Partners Fund VI, L.P., SSC II, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow reported on the University's recent follow-on
investments with three previously approved real estate partnerships: CP Investment
Fund II, L.P., Rockwood Capital Real Estate Partners Fund VI, L.P., and SSC II, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Garnet & Helfrich Capital, L.P.; Claremont Creek
Ventures, L.P.; PrivatVirde Fund, L.P.; and Embarcadero Capital Investors Two,
L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
approved the following investments: Commitment of an additional $6 million from the
Long Term Portfolio to Garnet & Helfrich Capital L.P. (venture capital commitment);
$10 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Claremont Creek Ventures, L.P. (venture
capital commitment); $45 million to PrivatVirde Fund, L.P. for the University
Investment Pool (absolute return investment); and $20 million to Embarcadero Capital
Investors Two, L.P. (real estate investment).
Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library North and South Emergency Power Upgrade
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the Harlan Hatcher Graduate Library North and South
Emergency Power Upgrade Project as described in the Regents Communication, and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
Student Activities Building Renovation
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Student Activities Building Renovation Project as described
in the Regents Communication, and authorized commissioning Gensler Architecture,
Design & Planning Worldwide for its design. It was noted that approximately

30



July Meeting, 2005

two-thirds of the project will be funded by the State of Michigan, from the Fiscal Year
2005 Supplementa Capital Outlay Request.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Canton Health
Center Infusion Treatment and Computed Tomography (CT) Services Leasehold
Improvements; University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers  MHHC)
Eye Center Expansion Project
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that these projects are anintegral part of
the Hospitals long-term ambulatory care strategic plan. Executive Vice President Kelch
explained that both projects are part of a multiple-step project toexpand the Hospitals'
outpatient facilities for ccercare and geriatric care.
Regent Brandon moved approval of the UMHHC Canton Health Care Infusion
Treatment and Computed Tomography Services Leasehold Improvements Project and
the UMHHC Family Medicine Relocation to Domino's Farms Leasehold Improvements
Project, as described in the Regents Communications. Regent Taylor seconded the
motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Eye Center
Expansion Project
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that the Eye Center Expansion Project is
included in the UMHHC master plan, and the project includes te Brhm Diabetes
Research Center, funded by a gift from William and Deores Brehm. Executive Vice
President Kelch introduced Mr. John Ballew newly appointed director of health system
facilities planning.
Mr. Ballew noted that the purpose of the project is to replace and expand the
existing eye center in order to address increasing growthin clinical volume and research
volume, to provide physical space to realizepart of the Br  Center gift for diabetes
Type I research, and to provide shellspacefor future research needs. He displayed a
diagram of the site location within the Medical Center Master Plan and reviewed the
vision for the Wall Street district. He also provided an image of the currenteye center
facilities and explained the reasonng behind predictions for large increases in demand
for these facilities. He then reviewed the vision for the Breh  center ad described the
basic conception for the project. He described short-term plans for accommodating the
parking spaces that will be eliminated by the project, and said that long-term needs will
be provided by implementation of the first phase of the Health System's parking
strategy. It was noted that a significant portion of finding for the project is expected to
be provided by philanthropy.
Regent Taylor moved approval of the UMHHC Eye Center Expansion Project as
described, and authorization for commissioning TSA of Massachusetts LLP for its
design. Regent White seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes nine conflict of interest
items, each of which requires six votes for approval.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the following nine items.

31



July Meeting, 2005

Purchasing Contract with Wright Medical Technology
The Regents approveda purchasing contract with Wright Medical Technology for
hip and knee implant systes. Because Dr. J. David Blaha, stockholder in Write
Medical Technology, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Wright Medical Technology.
2.   The goods provided are knee and hip implant systems to be provided for the period
from August 1, 2005, through July 31, 2008, at a total amount of $5,000,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises fom the fact that Dr. J. David Blaha, a University of
Michigan employee, is a stockholder in Wright Medical Technology.
Purchasing Contract with Monoky & Associates
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with Monoky &          Associates for
textbooks for the Ross School of Business's Executive Education Center. Because John
F. Monoky, principal consultt of Monoky & Associates, is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
irquiements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Ross
School of Business's Executive Education Center and Monoky & Associates.
2.   The products provided are textbooks to be purchased through December 2006 at a cost
of $6,450.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that John F. Monoky, a University of
Michigan employee, is principal consultant of Monoky & Associates.
Purchasing Contract with Valley View Farm
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with Valley View Farm for breeding
and boarding sheep for use in medical research projects in the Department of Pediatric
Endocrinology. Because Douglas Doop, sole owner of Valley View Farm, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michiga
Conflict ofInterest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Department of Pediatric Endocrinology and Valley View Farm.
2.   The service to be provided is boarding and breeding sheep for the purpose of medical
research. The service will be provided from September 1, 2005, through August 31,
2008, at a cost of $70,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Douglas Doop, a University of
Michigan employee, is the sole owner of Valley View Farm.
License Agreement with Avidimer Therapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with Avidimer Therapeutics, Inc. for
"Multi-functional Engineered Nano-devices" (UM File No. 2908); "Process for the
Production of Highly Pure Dendrimers" (UM      File No. 2914); "Targeted Delivery of
Imaging Agents and/or Therapeutics to Prostate Cancer Cells" (UM File No. 3125).
Because Dr. James Baker, Jr., has ownership interest in Avidimer Therapeutics and is

32



July Meeting, 2005

also a University of Michigan eployee, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan   Conflict of Interest Statue.The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1    The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Avidimer
Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement include giving Avidimer an exclusive license with the right
to grant sublicenses. Avidimer will pay a royalty on sales and reimburse patent costs,
and the University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue
to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. James Baker, Jr., a University of
Michigan employee, has ownership interest in Avidimer Therapeutics, Inc. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.
License Agreement with Pipex, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with Pipex, Inc., for commercialization
of the intellectual property "Copper lowering treatment of inflammatory and fibrotic
diseases" (UM   File No. 2169). Because Dr. George Brewer has ownership interest in
Pipex, Inc., and is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreementfalls under
thte    e ofMichigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Pipex,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement include giving Pipex an exclusive license with the right to
grant sublicenses, and Pipex will pay a royalty on sales and reimburse patent costs. The
University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to further
develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrntees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. George Brewer, a University of
Michigan employee, has ownership interest in Pipex, Inc. He has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.
Research Agreement with Cyclos Semiconductor, Inc.
The Regents approved a research agreement with Cyclos Semiconductor, Inc., for a
technology entitled "Charge Recovery Technology Evaluation." Because Dr. Marios C.
Papaefthymiou, part owner of Cyclos Semiconductor, Inc., is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls nder the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Cyclos
Semiconductor, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. A total contract of $94,502
is anticipated to cover the period of May 1, 2005, through July 31, 2007. The
University's standard contract provisions will apply. Since research agreements are
often amended, the subcontct includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and
scope of the research. University procedures for approval of these changes will be
followed and additional review by the conflict of interest review committee will be
done as appropriate.

33



July Meeting, 2005

3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Marios C. Papaefthymiou, a
University of Michigan employee, is also part owner of Cyclos Semiconductor, Inc. He
has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University.
License Agreement with POM       Group, Inc.
The Regents approved a license ageement with POM              Group, Inc., for the
technology entitled: "Method for Fabrication Overhang Structure by Deposition of
Sacrificial Material to Form Cavity During Direct Metal Deposit (DMD)" (UM File No.
1721) and "Method of Tailoring Residual Stress and Hardness During Direct Metal
Deposition" (UM    File No. 1722). Because Dr. Jyotirmoy Mazumder, part owner of
POM Group, Inc., is also a University of Michiganemployee, this ageement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided
in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and POM
Group, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement include giving POM Group, Inc., an exclusive license with
the right to grant sublicenses. POM Group, Inc., will pay a license fee and reimburse
patent costs. The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may
continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Jyotirmoy Mazumder, a University
of Michigan employee, is also part owner of POM Group, Inc. He has waived any
personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.
Amendment to License Agreement with Discera, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with Discera, Inc., for the techology
entitled: "Non-intrusively Supported Wine GlassDisk Resonator" (UM File No. 2439);
"Extensional Wine Glass Resonator" (UM           File No. 2571); and      "Hollow    Disk
Micromechanical Resonator" (UM       File No. 2729). Because Dr. Clark Nguyen, part
owner of Discera, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreeent falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Thepaties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Discera,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement include giving Discera, Inc., an exclusive license with the
right to grant sublicenses. Discera, Inc., will pay a royalty on sales and reimburse
patent costs. The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may
continue to further develop it and use it interally.
No use of University serices or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of wrrntees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Clark Nguyen, a University of
Michigan employee, is also part owner of Discera, Inc. He has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.
Option Agreement with Vortex Hydro Energy LLC
The Regents approved an option agreement with Vortex Hydro Energy LLC for the
technology entitled "Converter of Current/Tide/Wave Energy" (UM File No. 2973).

34



July Meeting, 2005

Because Dr. Michael Beritsas, part owner of Vortex Hydro Energy LLC, is also a
University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The paties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Vortex
Hydro Energy LLC.
2.   The terms of the agreement include giving Vortex Hydro LLC a one-year exclusive
option to negotiate an exclusive license with the right to grant sublicenses. Vortex
Hydro Energy LLC will reimburse patent costs during the term of the option
agreement, and would pay a royalty on sales and reimburse patent costs if the option is
exercised and a license is executed. The University will retain ownership of the
licensed technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the conflict of interest review committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from Dr. Michael Bemitsas' ownership interest in Vortex
Hydro Energy LLC. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue
received by the University.
Henry Russel Lecturer for 2006
President Coleman informed the Regents that Huda Akil, Gardner C. Quarton
Distinguished University Professor of Neuroscience in Psychiatry, hasbeenselected as
the HenryRussel Lecturer for 2006.
Henry Russel Awards for 2006
President Coleman informed the Regents that two faculty members had been
selected to receive the Henry Russel Awards for 2006: Amy K. Porter, associate
professor of flute, School of Music, and Dennis M. Sylvester, associate professor of
electrical engineering and computer science in the College of Engineering.
Revision of SPG 201.65-1: Conflicts of Interest and Confficts of Com    itment
Provost Courant reported that a faculty and staff committee hadbeen charged with
developing a new conflict of interest and conflict ofcommitment policy to replace the
original SPG 201.65-1 that would be consistent with current norms for higher education.
The resulting document has been issued as a revised Standard Practice Guide 201.65-1
(included as an attachment to the Regents Communication and available on the
University of Michigan website).     Companion procedures establish a process for
developing, reviewing, approving, and monitoring implementation policies in the
schools, colleges, and administrative units, and these implementation policies will be
established d   g the 2005-2006 academic year.
Delores S. And William K. Brehm Center for Type I Diabetes Research and
Analysis
Executive Vice President Kelch commented on the generosity of Delores and
William Brehm in providing funds for a center for diabetes research. Regent Newan
said that she had recently met the Brehms and was impressed by their dedication to
finding a cure for bot Type I and juvenile Diabetes.

35



July Meeting, 2005

On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regent
unanimously approved establishment of the Delores S. Ad William K. Brehm Center
for Type I Diabetes Research and Analysis.
Michigan Health Corporation Business Plan
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Michigan Health Corporation FY2006 Annual Business Plan
and Budget.
Regents' Meeting Schedule for 2006
Vice President Churchill submitted a proposed schedule of Regents' Meeting for
2006, noting tat informal sessions would generally be held on Thursday afternoons and
the formal sessions would be held Friday mornings, with Public Comments scheduled
for 11:00 a.m.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the following schedule of Regents' Meetings for 2006:
Informal Session      Formal Session
January 19            January20
February 16           February 17
March 16              March 17
April 20              April 21
May 18                May 19 (Dearborn Campus)
June 15               June 16
July 20               July 21
September 21          September 22
October 19            October 20 (Flint Capus)
November 16           November 17
December 14           December 15
New Degree Program for University of Michigan-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters ("Bachelor of Arts degree in Women's and Gender Studies")
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved a new degree program to be offered by the College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters at the University of Michigan-Flint: "Bachelor of Arts degree in
Women's and Gender Studies."
University ofMichigan-Dearborn Bylaws
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved revised University of Michigan-Dearborn Bylaws. The revised
bylaws are included as an attachment to the Regents Communication.
A ten-minute break followed.

36



July Meeting, 2005

Public Comments
The Regents heard comments from the following people on the topic of amending
the Regents Bylaws to include a nondiscrimination statement regarding gender identity
and expression: Jeffrey Montgomery, citizen and executive director of the Triangle
Foundation; Sandra Samons, alumna; Brent Bilodeau, citizen and director of the
Michigan State University Office of LBGT Concerns; Amanda Simpson, citizen; Amy
Hammock, student; and Kate Runyon, citizen and associate of the American Friends
Service Committee Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Issues Program. The
following individuals also commented on the topics indicated: Jim Mogensen, citizen,
on the town-gown relationship; Alice Ralph, alumna and commissioner of the
Washtenaw County Historic District Commission, on the Gordon Hall Historic District;
and Carmel Salhi, alumnus and member of Students Allied for Freedom and Equality,
on a committee to investigate investments in military companies in Israel.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:45 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled forSeptember 15, 2005.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretay of the University

37



July Meeting, 2005

38



SEPTEMBER MEETING, 2005

The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
September 15, 2005
The Regents convened at 2:35 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor,
and White. Also present were Vice President Churchill, Interim Provost Gramlich, Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor
Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice
President Slottow, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order and welcomed Coach Carol
Hutchins and the national champion Michigan softball team to the meeting. She noted
that everyone had been captivated by the team's success and teamwork, and said that
numerous people have told her how much they enjoyed watching the championship
series on television. She called on Regent Newman.
Regents' Resolution in Honor of Softball Team
Regent Newman called Coach Hutchins and the softball team to the podium and
read the following resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan applaud the Michigan
Wolverines softball team for winning Michigan's first-ever national
softball championship on June 8, 2005, at the Women's College World
Series.
The Wolverines are indeed champions of the west - and east,
north and south. In a thrilling, 10-inning victory against two-time
defending champions UCLA, the Wolverines, who had earned the team's
first-ever number one national ranking, became the first team east of the
Mississippi to claim the national softball championship and only the
second Michigan women's team   to win a national crown.    The
Wolverines also are the first Big Ten team to win a national title in
softball or baseball since 1966.
Much credit goes to Coach Carol Hutchins, who is beginning her
22nd season as head softball coach and is the most victorious coach in
Michigan history, with 940 victories to her credit. As one of the top ten
NCAA Division I active coaches in career wins and winning percentage,
"Hutch" has built the Michigan team into one of the elite programs in
the nation. Under her guidance, the Wolverines have claimed 10 of the
last 14 Big Ten championships and have advanced to the NCAA
Women's College World Series eight times. Hutchins' players have won
numerous all-conference, all-America and individual collegiate athlete
awards, along with 72 Academic All-Big Ten awards, including six from
this year's championship team.

39



September Meeting, 2005

With great pride, the Regents salute Michigan's national
championship women's softball team, along with Coach Carol Hutchins
and staff Bonnie Tholl, Jennifer Brundage, and Jennifer Teague, for
their history-making championship season. They are conquering heroes
and valiant victors all.
A round of applause followed, and a team member presented President Coleman
with a personalized softball jersey. Coach Hutchins responded that it was an honor for
the team to be here, and said, "We felt it only fitting that the president of the United
States and the president of the University of Michigan should get a jersey from the
national champions." She said the team has made everyone proud, and though they've
been successful on the field, "They are most successful every day that they walk on this
campus."
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman welcomed Interim Provost Edward Gramlich to the Regents'
Meeting. She also commended the University community for its outpouring of support
following Hurricane Katrina. She noted that 50 undergraduate students and about 12
graduate students from the affected areas had been admitted as non-degree students for
the fall term.
President Coleman reported that an agreement had been reached in the state
legislature on the FY2005-06 budget. The base appropriation for the Ann Arbor
campus will be $4.3 million less than that enacted in the previous fiscal year. She
expressed the hope that in the coming year there will be progress toward the goal of
achieving a more predictable, robust level of support in future years.
President Coleman also called attention to three projects that the Regents will be
acting on at this meeting: renovations to Mosher-Jordan Hall, the Hill Dining Center,
and renovations to Bursley Hall, all of which are part of the Residential Life Initiative
(RLI). Each project helps achieve the goal of providing student residential space that
connects more seamlessly with students' learning environment and enhances the overall
quality of student life.
South Campus Master Plan Update
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that an update would be presented
of a plan that was last reviewed by the Board in June 2003. He pointed out that master
plans need to be updated periodically to be certain they are aligned with changes in
priorities and plans for major buildings. Two projects that had been outlined at the time
of the last update -- softball and baseball field renovations -- have changed significantly
from their original conception.
Athletic Director Bill Martin noted that the original objective had been to move
the baseball and softball fields to a different location, but it was determined that not
only was the cost of totally relocating those facilities prohibitive, but coaches, players,
and donors preferred the current location. He said there is a flood plain issue in the
current location that needs to be considered. The updated plan, therefore, calls for the
softball and baseball programs to remain in their current locations with appropriate
renovations to the stadiums. The plan also provides for construction of a multi-purpose
field house along State Street, south of Schembechler Hall.

40



September Meeting, 2005

Mr. Martin commented that the renovations will be funded by philanthropy, noting
that most of the necessary funds for the baseball renovation have been raised, but that
more support is needed for the softball project.
Regent McGowan commented that it appeared that the Fisher Stadium (baseball)
renovation was to be far more extensive than the Alumni Field (softball) renovation.
Mr. Martin responded that the softball practice and locker room facilities were
relatively new, having been built in 1998 with a gift from Donald R. Sheperd. The
major needs for the softball program are larger grandstands and a press box. Fisher
Stadium was originally built in the 1940s and has never been renovated. He also noted
that some of the facilities, such as batting cages, are used by both teams.
Sue Gott, University planner, gave a presentation on the updated South Campus
Master Plan. She reviewed the plan presented in 2003, and noted two of the priorities
listed at that time, the Junge Family Champions Center and the Academic Center, are
now under construction and nearing completion.
Ms. Gott said that a storm water management analysis of the south campus led to
certain design features being incorporated into the Academic Center. Some of the
storm water management regional planning approaches on North Campus and Central
Campus might also be incorporated into the future plans for South Campus as well.
Ms. Gott confirmed Mr. Martin's comment that due to prohibitive costs associated
with the original 2003 plan of relocating the baseball and softball facilities, the 2005
update calls for the programs to remain in their current locations. She pointed out that
these are very appropriate land uses within the flood zone area, and noted there is no
evidence of a game ever having been canceled due to flooding. The only challenge
would be accommodating the loss of approximately 30 parking spaces as a result of the
baseball project.
She indicated the location where the new multipurpose field house will be sited
under the updated master plan, and noted that the proposed location for a new
basketball and wrestling practice facility remains adjacent to Crisler Arena, as
originally envisioned in the 2003 master plan.
Ms. Gott indicated that several additional Athletic Department fundraising
priorities have come forward since 2003, including improvements associated with the
football stadium; construction of a new artificial turf practice field which would be
required by the proposed location of the new multi-purpose field house at the site of the
current practice field; and renovation of the historic Marie Hartwig Building. She
displayed the University Planner's Office framework plan for incorporating flexibility
for potential future parking decks, pedestrian linkages and pathways, and regional
utility planning into all of the projects.  Ms. Gott noted that there are several
development zones in the South State Street area that remain available for potential
future development.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee, consisting of him and Regents White and McGowan, had met that morning.
The main topic was a review of the Fiscal Year 2005 external audit results, including a
general overview of the University's financial performance. Also in attendance at the

41



September Meeting, 2005

meeting were Executive Vice President Slottow, Associate Vice President Peggy
Norgren, University Controller Cheryl Soper, Executive Director of University Audits
Cheryl Soper, and three representatives from the University's external audit firm of
Price WaterhouseCoopers (PWC). The external auditors presented a clean, unqualified
report of the University's financial condition. During a private session between the
PWC representatives and the committee, the committee received extremely positive
feedback with respect to the competence, excellence, and professionalism of University
staff. He noted that despite the fiscal challenges the University faces, the committee
was pleased at the highly successful results of the University's fundraising efforts to
date.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee. Regent Taylor reported
that the committee, which includes himself and Regents Deitch and Richner, had met
with President Coleman regarding the evaluation procedures she uses for the executive
officers. The committee had also received a status report from the Provost Search
Committee, and reports about the progress being made by the several dean search
committees. All are on track for meeting their deadlines. He noted that the majority of
the committee's time was spent reviewing and confirming the 2005-06 committee
calendar. Although the calendar is always subject to change, a yearly schedule of topics
has been established.
President's Salary. Regent Taylor also announced that the committee had been
leading the Board's annual evaluation of the performance of the president. He noted
that President Coleman is beginning the fourth year of a five-year contract. At her
request, she had received no salary increase at the end of her first year, and in year two
she had received a 2% increase. For year three, based on an analysis of the evaluations
of individual board members, the committee is recommending an increase in
compensation of 3.5%.
Regent Taylor stated that the recommendation is based on the Board's recognition
of President Coleman's many strengths and accomplishments during the past year.
Among these are her remarkable leadership in the Michigan Difference campaign and
her equally remarkable and generous personal gift of $500,000 to that campaign; the
healthy financial condition of the University of Michigan Health System in contrast to
that of most other academic medical centers; the establishment of the M-PACT
financial aid program; progress toward her four Presidential Initiatives; her successful
efforts in retaining key faculty; and her leadership in steering the University through
very challenging budget cycles. He also noted that the Regents have been highly
appreciative of President Coleman's passionate advocacy for maintaining the academic
excellence of the University.
Regent Taylor commented that the Regents acknowledge the University's fiscal
situation believe the increase is both prudent and fair. "This compensation figure
reflects our collective confidence in the direction and health of the University and
President Coleman's strong leadership," he said, "while at the same time being
cognizant of the very real fiscal constraints across the campus."
Accordingly, Regent Taylor moved that the president's salary be increased by
3.5%, effective with the academic year which commenced on September 1, 2005, and

42



September Meeting, 2005

concludes on August 31, 2006. Regent Brandon seconded the motion, and it was
approved unanimously.
President Coleman commented, "I'd like to make the point that nobody
accomplishes all this without this team of people sitting around the table. And I
absolutely believe I'm the most fortunate university president in the United States to
have the colleagues that I have and to have the people on the Board who care so
passionately about the University. So I thank you very, very much and look forward to
an exciting, fabulous year coming up."
The Regents then turned to the remainder of the consent agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of July 21, 2005.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.
With respect to the Plant Extension Report, he noted that the University continues to
make regular infrastructure improvements on existing buildings in addition to
constructing new buildings. He also described the "Voices of the Staff' program
established by President Coleman and administered by Associate Vice President Laurita
Thomas.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report. The Regents received the report of projects established, July 1
- August 31, 2005.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Kelch had no
additional report.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper announced that the new
school year was off to a successful start. She also commented about the three projects
being brought forward today that are part of the Residential Life Initiative (RLI), noting
that the quality of the residential experience makes a significant contribution towards
students' academic success. She pointed out that more than $25 million has been spent
since 2001 on life safety projects, and two additional projects are on today's agenda for
Oxford and Bursley residence halls. Additional projects are being brought forward for
the upgrading of the dining facilities and additional programming and social space
within Bursley Hall, and for a major project providing for the renovation of MosherJordan Hall and construction of an adjacent Hill Dining Center. She pointed out that
the Mosher-Jordan renovation project will be the first major residence hall renovation in
the University's history and is important to preserve and enhance this historic structure.
Vice President Harper commented that the Hill Dining Center will be the first of
its type on campus and enables the University to address more comprehensively the
dining experience and its contribution to community-building efforts and to increasing
the University's ability to support healthy lifestyles. Consolidating the dining
operations will provide operational efficiencies that contribute to the unit's long-term

43



September Meeting, 2005

financial health. The cost of all three projects is included within the original RLI
budget estimates provided to the Board.
University of Michigan-Flint.   Chancellor Mestas introduced the three
individuals being recommended for appointment as vice chancellors on the Flint
campus: Jack Kay, provost and vice chancellor for academic affairs and professor of
communication, with tenure; Mary Jo Sekelsky, vice chancellor for student services and
enrollment management; and Kristen Dahlen Skivington, vice chancellor for
institutional advancement. Chancellor Mestas reported that overall enrollment on the
Flint Campus has increased by 4%, with graduate enrollment having increased by 32%
during the past year. New freshman enrollment has increased by 5%.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little noted that enrollment
growth is the number one priority on the Dearborn campus, and that enrollment for the
freshman class is up by about 20%. Chancellor Little also reported on progress that has
been made on the Greenways Trail along the Rouge River watershed, a portion of
which has been laid on the Dearborn Campus.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Jesse Levine, president of MSA, reported
on activities of MSA during the start of the school year. He also noted that MSA has
initiated a fundraising campaign for the MSA organization. On behalf of the Residence
Hall Association, he expressed support for the proposed Hill Dining Center and
Mosher-Jordan renovations.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted Reports of Voluntary Support
for June, July, and August, 2005.
Michigan Difference Campaign Update. Vice President May gave an update on
the Michigan Difference Campaign as of June 30, 2005. He noted that as of that date,
more than $1.83 billion had been raised toward the $2.5 billion goal, which is 73%. He
reported that cash receipts had increased by 21% over the previous year's total, and
were the highest ever at the University. Campaign production for FY 2005 added more
than $492 million to the campaign total, which is also a record. He noted that of the
more than 264,000 gifts to the Michigan Difference campaign, 262,000 have been under
$100,000, and the majority of those have been under $5,000.
Vice President May reported that of the $1.5 billion that has been committed
toward the cash goal of $2.1 billion, 75% of these funds are from individuals. This
means that the University of Michigan is one of the leading universities in the country
in the percent of giving from individuals. He also pointed out, however, that many
campaign goals have not yet been met, including $180 million for buildings, $240
million for faculty support, and $120 million for student aid. About $280 million is still
needed to reach the goal for endowment.
President Coleman thanked Vice President May and his team for all of their efforts
that have helped the campaign to reach its current level of success. She also thanked
the donors, noting that given the long-term trends in state support, philanthropy is more
important now than it has been in the past, and it crucial to helping the University
maintain its competitive edge.

44



September Meeting, 2005

June 2005
Keith E. Alessi, Lexington, Virginia
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... $25,000
Altarum Institute, Ann Arbor
for the Altarum/ERIM Russell D. O'Neal Professorship in the College of Engineering............ 150,000
American Axle & Manufacturing, Detroit
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................................... 70,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
andtheArts................................................................  65,174
American Chemical Society, Washington, D. C.
for research in the College of Engineering...............................................  35,000
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research and other support in the Division of Kinesiology and the Medical School............. 342,779
American Israel Education Fund Frankel Associates, Troy
for the MBS Israel Project Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................... 287,030
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................. 36,500
Emil M. Anderson, Dearborn
for the Class of 1931 Engineers' Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................ 260,871
Ann Arbor Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Schools of Medicine and Social Work.................................... 24,000
Ann Arbor Track Club, Ann Arbor
for the "Save a Heart" Fund and WUOM.......................................... 13,270
Anonymous Donor
696 shares of Cemex SA de CV common stock for research in the Medical School and for
the Director's Strategic Opportunities Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 29,942
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Department of Athletics............................................... 16,600
Mary Jane Archer, Dearborn
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 10,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 54,167
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 22,083
ASPA Pension Education Research Foundation, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................28,000
Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Foundation, Fribourg, Switzerland
for the Francois-Xavier Bagnoud Fellowship in the College of Engineering...................... 51,171
Morris and Beverly Baker Foundation, Windsor, Canada
for the Morris D. Baker Endowed Scholarship Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, for the Beverly Franzblau Baker Scholarship in
the School of Music, and for support in the University Library, and for the
Mardigian Library at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 18,000
Genevieve A. Berhalter Estate
for the Robert and Genevieve Berhalter Children's Research Fund in the Medical School.......... 55,738
Alfred Berkowitz Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Alfred Berkowitz Endowed Children's Cancer Fund in the Medical School............... 100,000
Claire Bernstein Trust
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, for the Isadore Bernstein Fund in the
School of Public Health, and for the Cardiovascular Center Building Fund..................... 15,175
Pierre E. Berry, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Pierre E. Berry Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
Clements Library and the Museum of Anthropology, in memory of Margaret Guta................ 30,000
James L. Betchek, Niles
for the James L. Betchek Endowed Football Scholarship and other support in the
Department of Athletics...................................................  20,501
Alan R. Blackburn Trust
for the Jeanette and Alan Blackburn Endowment Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.............................................................  17,039
Janette E. Blackburn Trust
for the Jeanette and Alan Blackburn Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..........................................................      26,680
Blau-Novick Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Israeli Fellowship in Radiation Oncology in the Medical School......................... 25,000
Robert M. Bohlen, Brighton
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art..................................... 75,000

45



September Meeting, 2005

Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Museum of Art................................................... 15,000
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
for the William K. Brehm Undergraduate Scholarship Fund.................................. 575,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Freedom to Discover Award Fund in the Medical School............................ 100,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for employee matching gifts............................................................ 25,365
Eli and Edythe L. Broad Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 66,034
Michael N. Bucci, Greer, South Carolina
for the Julian T. Hoff, M.D. Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School................ 10,000
Cairn Foundation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the School of Music............................................... 30,000
Clare B. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
684 shares of Brunswick Corporation common stock for the Clare and Michael Callahan
Dean's Discretionary Fund and other support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........... 30,161
Jerry Capizzi, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 12,500
Vivian L. Carpenter, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 25,000
Caterpillar Foundation, Peoria, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering and the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business.............................................................. 104,000
Chamber Music America, New York, New York
for the University Musical Society..................................................... 10,000
ChevronTexaco, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.............................................................  10,849
Cohn Family Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Preventive Cardiology Research Fund in the Medical School and
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................................. 11,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for the Minority Student Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint................... 22,064
Phelps M. Connell, Ann Arbor
2,650 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Phelps M. and Jean D. Connell Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, the Schools
of Music and Natural Resources and Environment, and the Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 105,916
Convergys Corporation, Norwood, Ohio
for scholarships in the College of Engineering............................................ 10,000
Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Lansing
for WFUM.................................................................75,000
Howard J. Cooper Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art...................................... 10,000
Eugene Cordes, Newtown Square, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Pharmacy............................................... 15,000
Trudy Harrison Crandall, Ann Arbor
for the Executive Director's Innovation Fund in the Medical School............................ 10,000
Timothy M. Cunniff, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 15,550
DCES Educational Services, Canton
for the MEPO Director's Discretionary Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 20,000
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 20,000
Richard H. Deerhake, Findlay, Ohio
for the Dr. Jacob P. Deerhake Endowment Fund in the Medical School, in memory of
Dr. Jacob P. Deerhake.......................................................... 76,000
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for research and other support in the School of Dentistry...........................  45,170
Doshay Family Trust
for the Baseball Stadium Building Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 100,000
Epker-Percival Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................. 25,000
Frederick A. Erb, Birmingham
47,563 shares various corporate common stock for the Frederick A. and Barbara M. Erb
Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and the School of Natural
Resources and Environment....................................................... 1,264,651

46



September Meeting, 2005

Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matchinggifts........................................................... 71,396
Elizabeth C. Erwin, Bloomfield Hills
for support inthe Clements Library.................................................... 10,000
ExxonMobil Foundation, Irving, Texas
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 107,905
Ferrante Charitable Gift Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Domenic and Molly Ferrante Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..................................................................  5000
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the E. Malcolm Field Research Fellowship in the Medical School......................... 50,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the College of Engineering, the A. Alfred Taubman
College of Architecture and Urban Planning and for the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 138,190
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering, the Museum of Art,
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, the School of Natural Resources and Environment,
for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 1,099,874
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Owings Mills, Maryland
forresearch intheMedical School...................................................... 62,087
Samuel and Jean Frankel Jewish Heritage Foundation, Troy
for the Frankel Institute for Advanced Judaic Studies Fund and the Professorship in
Contemporary Jewry in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 850,000
Fraternal Order of Eagles Michigan, Lake
forthe Child andFamily Life Fund...............................................  15,362
Furth Family Foundation, Healdsburg, California
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................. 19,800
Glaucoma Research Foundation, San Francisco, California
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 16,000
Joseph M. Geisinger Trust
for the Joseph M. Geisinger Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering.................. 6,000,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for employee matchinggifts......................................................... 24,524
Gary D. Giller, Columbus, Ohio
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................................... 10,000
GlaxoSmithKline, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for support intheMedical School...................................................... 11,250
Googasian Family Foundation, Oakland
for support in the School of Music and for the President's Fund.............................. 20,500
Michael D. Gorge, Franklin
for the Ben and Evelyn Gorge Endowment Fund in the Medical School.......................... 19,000
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Class of 1955 Emeritus Landscaping Fund in the College of Engineering................... 35,000
Robert A. Green, Ann Arbor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for the Lila Green Costume
Fundinthe School ofMusic..................................................... 10,250
Martha L. Hammel, Auburn Hills
for the Martha and Ernest Hammel Graduate Student Research Fund in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................................ 10,00
Robert B. Harris Trust
1,257 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the C. E. Bottum and R. Harris Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 33,289
John J. Hart Estate
for the John J. Hart Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 417,008
William K. Hawes, Jr., Houston, Texas
for the William K. Hawes Family Scholarship Fund in the School of Music...................... 20,000
James C. Hayes, Roswell, Georgia
for the Class of 1977 Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............................... 20,000
Hella KG, Hueck & Company, Lippstadt, Germany
for support in the Transportation Research Institute....................................... 15,000
Gary R. Hibler Living Trust
360 shares of United Parcel Services, Inc., common stock
for the Women's Gymnastics Fund in the Department of Athletics............................ 24,743
William B. Holmes Revocable Living Trust
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics................................... 20,000
Honda R & D Company, Ltd., Saitama, Japan
for support in the Transportation Research Institute....................................... 14,995

47



September Meeting, 2005

William F. Hosford, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the William F. Hosford Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 21,578
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for  support in  the  M edical School........................................................ 39,000
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research  in the  College  of Engineering.................................................  80,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and the College of Literature,
Science,  and  the  A rts..................................................................60,0 00
J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York
for the JP Morgan Chase Fellowship Program Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...... 50,000
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
9,160 shares of Perrigo Company common stock
for the Michael and Susan Jandernoa Life Sciences Initiative Fund in the Stephen M. Ross
School  of Business..................................................................  150,000
Phil F. Jenkins, Ann Arbor
an outside managed irrevocable trust for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School............... 880,000
Roger C. Johnson, Washington, D. C.
2,000 shares of AmeriCredit Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics, and the School of Education, and
for the Michigan in Washington Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 46,525
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health..................................1,757,408
Sue Junge, Dexter
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund............................... 10,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School....................................................... 82,101
D. Dan and Betty Kahn Family Foundation, Warren
for the D. Dan and Betty Kahn Cardiovascular Building Fund in the University Hospitals...........250,000
Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research  in the Institute for Social Research............................................ 717,378
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for support in the Institute for Social Research, the Schools of Information and Public Health and
for the Case About Diversity Traveling Exhibition Fund..................................... 3,734,670
John C. Kennedy, Kentwood
for support in the  Department of Athletics................................................. 25,800
Shake Ketefian Revocable Living Trust
for the Shake Ketefian Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Nursing...................... 25,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the  Child  and  Family  Life  Fund......................................................  14,852
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for  em ployee  m atching  gifts............................................................  10,000
Koito Manufacturing Company, Shimizu-Shi, Japan
for support in the Transportation  Research  Institute.......................................... 15,000
Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation, Dallas, Texas
for research  and other support in the Medical School........................................ 372,198
Kramercorp, Detroit
for support  in  the  M edical School........................................................ 62,500
Andrew J. Krapohl, Lincoln
for the Krapohl Resident Research Education Fund and the George W. Morley Memorial Fund
in the Medical School and
for the Patricia Averill Krapohl Dean's Discretionary Fund in the School of Nursing................14,500
Krips Family Foundation, Houston, Texas
500 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Krips Endowment Fund in the School of Education.................................... 21,269
John E. Kuieck Trust
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................141,573
John E. Leggat Estate
for support in the Law School........................................................ 25,000
Lockheed Martin, Lakeland, Florida
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 10,000
Lumina Foundation for Education, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the School of Education................................................ 85,795
A. H. Magnus, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
for the Magnus Family Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.............. 12,500
Marion Manogg Trust
for support at the University of Michigan............................................... 57,876
Manzella Investment Company, Dexter
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for WUOM................... 15,440

48



September Meeting, 2005

March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, Southfield
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 35,651
Robert R. McCormick Tribune Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 15,000
Thomas B. McMullen, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for WUOM............................... 10,050
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
11,800 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project.............................................. 500,194
Carole N. Metzger, Chevy Chase, Maryland
550 shares of JP Morgan Chase and Company common stock for the Carole and David Metzger
Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 19,643
Edward A. Michael, Vero Beach, Florida
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Michael Flora & Associates, Inc., Troy
for WUOM................................................................... 10,000
Michigan International Speedway, Brooklyn
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund............................ 25,000
Michigan Women's Athletic Association, Ann Arbor
for the Women's Basketball Gift Fund in the Department of Athletics.......................... 10,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and for the University
of Michigan-Dearborn.............................................................. 95,000
Virginia M. Moshier Estate
for support in the School of Nursing.................................................... 48,355
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 35,000
Richard Mukensturm, Adrian
for research in the Medical School, in memory of Beverly K. Mukenstrum...................... 10,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School....................................................... 86,653
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Great Neck, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 25,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 46,611
Marvin Novick, Oak Park
for the Israeli Fellowship in Radiation Oncology in the Medical School........................ 20,000
Richard Oppenheim, Woodland Hills, California
for the Richard Oppenheim Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
College of Engineering............................................................. 100,000
David and Lucille Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for the David and Lucille Packard Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.................................................................  125,000
Gerald W. Padwe, McLean, Virginia
5,900 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Gerald W. Padwe Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................................. 245,775
Gardner I. Parsons Revocable Trust
235 shares of Wyeth common stock for the Papyrology Challenge in the University Library......... 10,201
William R. Patterson, Grand Junction, Colorado
6 shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the William S. Smith Professorship in Orthopedic Surgery in the Medical School.............. 99,005
Francis W. Peters, Jr. Estate
for support in the School of Information................................................. 26,400
Donald E. Petersen, Birmingham
1,050 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for the Donald and Jo Anne Petersen Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................. 50,258
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 16,246
Paula H. Powers, San Francisco, California
for support in the Law School........................................................ 25,000
Doris G. Quinn Foundation, Bedford, New York
for the Doris G. Quinn Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 18,000
Anthony F. Randazzo, Grosse Pointe
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art....................................... 50,000
Ravitz Foundation, Southfield
for support in the Medical School................................................. 150,000

49



September Meeting, 2005

Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Florence M. Rennie Scholarship Foundation Award Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.............................................................. 15,628
Willogene G. Rice Estate
for the Richard Irwin and Willogene Guyer Rice Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering....88,314
Roland J. Rinke, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Cardiovascular Center Building Development Fund.................................. 25,000
Riversville Foundation, Signal Mountain, Tennessee
for the Riversville Foundation Scholarship Fund.......................................... 65,500
Jane E. Rollman Estate
for the Mary Rollman Scholarship Fund in the School of Information.......................... 10,000
Amnon Rosenthal, Ann Arbor
988 shares of various corporate common stock for the Prudence and Amnon Rosenthal
Endowment Fund.................................................................41,027
Eben L. Rosenthal, Birmingham, Alabama
for the Prudence and Amnon Rosenthal Endowment Fund.................................. 10000
Coleman J. Ross Trust
for the Coleman J. and Lois R. Ross Scholarship Funds in the Schools of Medicine,
Nursing, and Public Health, and at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 77,850
Louis R. Ross Trust
for the Coleman J. and Lois R. Ross Scholarship Funds in the Schools of Medicine,
Nursing, and Public Health, and at the University of Michigan-Flint.......................... 668,606
Ruth Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the School of Public Health...............................................90,520
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 30,501
SBC, Saint Louis, Missouri
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund.............................. 10,800
SBC Foundation, San Antonio, Texas
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 11,482
Edward R. Schulak, Birmingham
for the Schulak Family Emerging Science Fund and other support in the Medical School............ 10,000
Shane Family Fund of the Jewish Community Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Gregory Shane Fibromyalgia Fund in the Medical School............................. 10,000
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Women's Gymnastics Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics................. 125,000
Sinai Medical Staff Foundation, Southfield
for the Sinai Medical Staff Foundation Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Medical School........... 27,500
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research in the School of Social Work.............................................. 100000
Herbert E. Sloan, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert E. Sloan Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens and the Nichols Arboretum........................................... 25,000
Speckhard-Knight Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Speckhard-Knight Fund for Fetal Alcohol Syndrome in the Medical School................ 30,000
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 22,500
Sprint Foundation, Overland Park, Kansas
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 10,000
James C. Stanley, Ann Arbor
for the James and Nancy Stanley Endowment Fund and for research in the Medical School.......... 10,250
Stanley Electric Company, Ltd., Tokyo, Japan
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 15,000
Mary V. Stevenson Estate
for the University of Michigan Hospitals Motor Meals Ann Arbor Fund........................ 15,000
Edna Bailey Sussman Fund, New York, New York
for the Edna Bailey- Sussman Fund Environmental Internship in the School of Natural

50



September Meeting, 2005

Toyota Central R & D Laboratories, Inc., Nagakute, Japan
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 50,000
Toyota Tech Center, Torrance, California
for support in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 15,000
Universal Credit Services, Inc., Hartland
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............................. 10,800
Thomas G. Varbedian, Bloomfield Hills
604 units of various mutual funds for the Thomas and Marilynn Varbedian Scholarship
in the Medical School............................................................. 16,977
William E. Watch, Troy
for the Real Estate Initiative Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning........................................................  15,000
Wayne and Joan Webber Foundation, Clinton Township
for support in the Medical School, in memory of Albert Kabak............................... 64,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment and for the Wege
Foundation Environmental Policy Gift Fund in the School of Public Policy..................... 29,500
Barry A. Weisfeld, Scarsdale, New York
for the New York Family Scholarship and for the Weisfeld Family Endowed Fund................ 25,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for biomedical engineering research in the College of Engineering.............................. 70,158
Clayton E. Wilhite, Ann Arbor
for the Prudence and Amnon Rosenthal Endowment Fund and other support for the
University Musical Society.......................................................... 40,500
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Inc., Great Neck, New York
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics..................... 312,500
S. K. Yee Foundation, New York, New York
for the S. K. Yee Law Scholarship Fund in the Law School................................... 50,000
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Zell-Lurie Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies in the Stephen M. Ross School of
Business.........................................................    1,000,000
Bruce Zenkel, White Plains, New York
for the Zenkel Presidential Endowed Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts................................................................. 10,000
Jon and Kathy Zeschin Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 10,000

51



September Meeting, 2005

Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:

ABN AMRO Services Company, Chicago, Illinois
Richard J. Allen, Ann Arbor
Charles J. Aschauer, Jr., Wilmette, Illinois
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
Boeing Company, Seattle, Washington
Barbara E. Bryant Revocable Living Trust
Burr Family Charitable Fund of the Vanguard Charitable
Endowment, Southeastern, Pennsylvania
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
Kyle A. Carr, Suttons Bay
Clark Hill PLC, Detroit
Colina Foundation, Southgate
Dearborn Alumni Society University of Michigan,
Dearborn
Dow Corning Corporation, Midland
Kay Drey, Saint Louis, Missouri
Dunning Toyota, Ann Arbor
Eastman Chemical Company, Kingsport, Tennessee
Elli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
James D. Emerson, Fresno, California
Irene M. Esteves, Boston, Massachusetts
Fidelity Corporate Services, Boston, Massachusetts
Ilene H. Forsyth, Ann Arbor
Maxine and Stuart Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation, Troy
Bert A. Getz, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
James T. Glerum, Jr., Kenilworth, Illinois
Thomas Gottlieb and Carol Kirsh Family Fund of the
Goldman Sachs Philanthropy Fund, Boston,
Massachusetts
El Carol V. Greenwood Estate
Harris Family Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish
Foundation Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
Helen M. Harrison Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
Hebert, Eller & Chandler PLLC, Bingham Farms
Richard M. Helzberg, San Rafael, California
Daniel K. Hussey, Spring Lake
Robert A. Hutchens, Mount Kisco, New York
Ichikoh Industries, Ltd., Isehara City, Japan
George A. Isaac, III, and Shari H. Isaac Family Fund of
the Toledo Community Foundation, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
JFK Investment Company, LLC, Bloomfield Hills
Grace Kachaturoff, West Bloomfield
Timothy J. Keilty, Cedar
Emery I. Klein, Farmington Hills
Robert A. Kotick, Santa Monica, California
Ronald D. LaBeau, Monroe
Susan Lane, Shelby Township
Levitz Family Charitable Trust of the Fidelity Charitable
Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Lifecell, Branchburg, New Jersey
Richard Lineback, Bowling Green, Ohio
Curtis L. Mack, Atlanta, Georgia
James W. Mackenzie, Princeton, New Jersey
Macomber Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts

Mary Madden, Ann Arbor
Marathon Ashland Petroleum, LLC, Findlay, Ohio
Marathon Oil Company Foundation, Findlay, Ohio
Lionel S. Margolick, Farmington Hills
Mark Becker, Chelsea
David M. Markowitz, New York, New York
Kirsten P. McLean, Belmont, California
W. James McNerney, Jr., Family Foundation of the Ayco
Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation, Scottsdale, Arizona
Ralph J. Merwin Estate
Midland Center for the Arts, Midland
Beth A. Miller, Saline
Richard W. Morrison, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
Janet S. Mueller, Saint Peter, Minnesota
National Heritage Academies, Grand Rapids
National Starch and Chemical Corporation, Bridgewater,
New Jersey
Daniel G. Nicoli, Ann Arbor
Northrop Grumman Foundation, Los Angeles, California
Joseph J. Norton, Brighton
William P. O'Neill, Washington, D. C.
Parravano Fund of the Vanguard Charitable Endowment
Program, Southeastern, Pennsylvania
James G. Phillipp, Pasadena, California
Jennifer R. Poteat, Ann Arbor
PSI, Fremont, Ohio
Benjamin M. Quigg, Jr., Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
Frank G. Reeder, Wilmette, Illinois
Dorothy Reinhard Revocable Trust
Andy Reynolds, Berkley
Frank H. Roberts Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift
Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Joe F. Rosenberger, Kalamazoo
Michael Santicchia, Dearborn
Elizabeth M. Schmidt, Grosse Pointe Shores
Mark Steven Seigle, Elgin, Illinois
Seigle Family Foundation, Elgin, Illinois
Smith Group Company, Detroit
Sunrise Advertising, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
Target Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
TDS Metrocom, Inc., Madison, Wisconsin
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York,
New York
Robert P. Thome, Chevy Chase, Maryland
Stephen G. Tomlinson, Rowayton, Connecticut
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett, LLP, Grand
Rapids
Sandy Ting-Shung Vong, Ann Arbor
Thomas W. Wakefield, Ann Arbor
Geraldine Walk, Pinckney
World Heritage Foundation, Trenton
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Richard S. Yeung, Belvedere Tiburon, California

52



September Meeting, 2005

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
EDS, Plano, Texas
30 Compaq M700 laptop computers for the College of Engineering
Full Spectrum Solutions, Jackson
lighting products for task lighting for the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
12 PowerEdge 4600 servers and 24 3.0 MHz Xeon computers - rack mountable for the College of Engineering
United Solar Ovonic, LLC, Auburn Hills
one DAS web cam standard data acquisition system and one wireless modem for the School of Natural Resources
and Environment
Mary E. Verhoeven, Akron, Ohio
a large collection of books, manuscripts, maps, and other printed materials spanning from the 17th through the
19th century for the Clements Library
July 2005
Ann and Bob Aikens Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Aikens International Travel Initiative Fund in the School of Art and Design................$50,000
Aisin World Corporation of America, Plymouth
for biomedical engineering research in the College of Engineering.............................. 60,000
Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, Inc., Washington, D. C.
for support in the Transportation  Research  Institute......................................... 312,500
ASPA Pension Education Research Foundation, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 28,000
Beasley, Allen, Crow, Methvin, Portis & Miles, P.C., Montgomery, Alabama
for research  in  the  M edical School.......................................................10,000
J. D. Benisek, Houston, Texas
for the Holly Sucic Endowed Memorial Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint.........15,000
Guido A. and Elizabeth H. Binda Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Guido and Elizabeth Binda Student Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman of
Architecture  and  Urban  Planning........................................................  25,000
Boeing Defense & Space Group, Seattle, Washington
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering.............................. 146,000
Marvin and Betty Borman Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Marvin and Elizabeth Borman Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts......................................................................... 20,0 00
Bowl for Burns, Trenton
for the Trauma Burn Center Firefighter's Fund and the Trauma Burn Nursing Education Fund
in  the  M edical  School.................................................................  43,577
Linda A. W. Brakel, Ann Arbor
for support of the Ormand and Hazel Hunt Memorial Laboratory in the Medical School..............10,000
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
for the William and Delores Brehm Michigan Comprehensive Diabetes Center
Endowment Fund  in the Medical School................................................. 450,000
Donald L. Castle Charitable Lead Unitrust, Gainesville, Florida
for support in the School of Nursing and for the Michigan League.............................. 26,838
CFI Group, Ann Arbor
for the  University  M usical Society....................................................... 10,000
Cisco Systems, Inc., San Jose, California
for research  in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................  55,000
H. Bushnell Clarke, Saint Petersburg, Florida
for the Julian T. Hoff, M. D. Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School.................10,000
Correlogic Research and Development Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research  in  the  M edical School.......................................................10,000
John R. Crosby Memorial Fund, Ann Arbor
for adrenal cancer research  in the Medical School...........................................10,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...................... 98,602
DCES Educational Services, Canton
MEPO Director's Discretionary Fund in the College of Engineering........................... 15,000
Deutsche Bank, New York, New York
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 10,000
Engle Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sylvia "Duffy" Engle Graduate Student Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.............................................................. 50,000
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 21,000

53



September Meeting, 2005

Fraternal Order of Eagles Michigan, Lake
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 28,693
J. L. French Family Foundation, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for the Jeanna French Nurse Scientist Fund in the School of Nursing........................... 50,000
Constance P. Godfrey 2004 Trust
for the John W. Reed Scholarship Fund and other support in the Law School.................... 20,000
Goldring Family Foundation, Short Hills, New Jersey
for support in the Department of Athletics and for the Goldring Family Distinguished
Visiting Lectureship and the Goldring Family Field International Study Experience
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 100,000
Grand Aerie Fraternal Order of Eagles Michigan State Aerie, F.OE., White Cloud
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 50,000
Halliburton Foundation, Inc., Houston, Texas
for support in the Department of Athletics and for the University of Michigan-Dearborn............ 40,100
Betty Q. Hoard Revocable Living Trust
for the Douglas H. Hoard Scholarship Fund in the School of Music............................ 20,000
Dudley K. Holmes, Jr., Chelsea
2,000 shares of MBNA Corporation common stock
for the Holmes Psoriasis Fund in the Medical School....................................  50,780
Eu-Phang and Chih H. Hsu Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Eu-Phang and C. H. Hsu Endowed Fund in the College of Pharmacy..................... 10,000
Daniel K. Hussey, Spring Lake
for support in the Department of Athletics............................................... 16,667
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering.............................................. 55,000
JDW, 11 Capital Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida
for the Joseph and Judy Williamson Endowed Football Scholarship and other support
in the Department of Athletics...................................................... 100,000
Matilda L. Joseph Estate
for support in the Law School........................................................ 25,000
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 13,635
Harold R. Kellman, Fremont, California
4,000 shares of Microsoft Corporation common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 99,321
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Child and Family Life Fund................................................... 14,852
Lisa F. Knight, Matawan, New Jersey
for the Lisa Faith Knight Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 50,000
L & W Engineering Community Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 25,000
Robert M. Lane, Jackson Hole, Wyoming
for the Robert F. Lane Memorial Scholarship Fund in the School of Public Health................ 10,581
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for support in the Department of Athletics, and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
and for the Watershed Annual Event Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............... 115,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering, and the School of Public Health, and
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 62,350
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan............................................... 60,000
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
2,700 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project............................................. 253,469
Celestine E. Moloney Trust
for undergraduate student aid........................................................ 19,729
Mary C. Murphy Revocable Trust

54



September Meeting, 2005

Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 13,886
Paula H. Powers, San Francisco, California
for the Paula and Brian Powers Dean's Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..................................................................  10,000
Mervin Pregulman, Chattanooga, Tennessee
500 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics............................................... 24,048
John E. Riecker, Midland
22,600 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Margaret Ann (Ranny) & John E. Riecker Fellowship in the Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy............................................................. 996,886
John O. Robertson, West Melbourne, Florida
for the Ruth Lobdell Scholarship Fund................................................... 15,000
Sailer Family Fund of the San Diego Foundation, San Diego, California
for support in the Law School.......................................................... 10,000
Vincent C. Secontine, Jr. Estate
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 25,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
5,700 shares of Gables Residential Trust common stock
for the Women's Gymnastic Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for the Shepherd Family Graduate Student Instructor Scholarship Fund, the Robert and Marjorie
Shepherd GSI Fund and other support in the School of Music................................. 245,556
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Donald R. Shepherd Graduate Fellowship in the Department of Athletics.................. 20,000
Edwin J. Smith, Las Cruces, New Mexico
310 shares of Genlyte Group, Inc., common stock
for the Men's Track and Field Fund and for the Women's Track and Field Fund in the
Department of Athletics............................................................. 15,331
Mary E. Snapp, Redmond, Washington
for support in the Law School......................................................... 20,000
Steelcase Foundation, Grand Rapids
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 10,650
Stone Tower Capital, LLC, New York, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 10,000
Joseph F. Sucic, Flint
for the Holly Sucic Endowed Memorial Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint....... 10,000
Takata Automotive Systems Laboratory, Inc., Farmington Hills
for research in the College of Engineering............................................. 10,000
John and Daniel Tishman Family Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in the College of Engineering........... 400,000
University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit Scholarship Fund...................... 25,000
University of Michigan Club of Flint, Flint
for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Flint Endowed Athletic Scholarship in
the Department of Athletics and for the University of Michigan Club of Greater Flint
Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint.................................... 30,000
Wai-Tsin Chang, Danville, California
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in the College of Engineering........... 100,000
Charles R. Walgreen III, Lake Forest, Illinois
8,627 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Charles R. Walgreen III Professorship in Pharmacy Administration in the College
of Pharmacy...............................................................402,795
Kevin D. Welsh, Pacific Palisades, California
503 shares of various corporate company common stock
for the Reunion Gift Facilities Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................. 19,909
Wheeler Family Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 25,000
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................ 10,000

55



September Meeting, 2005

Additional gifts ranging from $5,000
following donors:
Jeffrey Altshuler, Grosse Pointe
Anonymous Donor
Bank of America Foundation, Charlotte, North Carolina
Beljan Family Trust
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
David W. Berson, Columbia, Maryland
Paul W. Blavin, Scottsdale, Arizona
Bright House Networks, LLC, Saint Petersburg, Florida
Thomas A. Buhr, Luzerne
Janet Coulter Buresh, Washington, D. C.
Maynard C. Buszek, Saint Clair Shores
Vrishin Chandra Fund, West Bloomfield
Charter Township of Brandon Oakland County,
Ortonville
Clifford L. Craig, Ann Arbor
John Steuer Dobson, Ann Arbor
John K. Fischer, Livonia
Kenneth C. Fischer, Ann Arbor
Richard I. Ford, Santa Fe, New Mexico
Sid Gilman, Ann Arbor
Gilmour Fund, Detroit
Susan Glowski, Dexter
Michael J. Hudson, Libertyville, Illinois
Imaging Sciences International, Inc., Hatfield,
Pennsylvania
W. J. and Lillian Kemler Foundation, West Bloomfield
Leonard J. Kujawa, Atlanta, Georgia
Marathon Oil Company Foundation, Findlay, Ohio
Oliver Dewey Marcks Foundation, Detroit
Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc., New York,
New York

to $9,999 in value were received from the
Robert V. Martelli, Bloomfield Hills
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Company,
Saint Paul, Minnesota
Duane D. Morse, McLean, Virgina
Sujit K. Pandit, Ann Arbor
Leslie E. Quint, Ann Arbor
Ric-Man Construction, Inc., Sterling Heights
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
Roseville Fireman's Fund, Roseville
Charles W. Ross, Ann Arbor
Stephanie Savarino, Ann Arbor
John P. Schmidt, Ann Arbor
Richard Muir Scroggins, Greenwich, Connecticut
Arthur H. Silverman, Potomac, Maryland
John M. Snodgrass, Ann Arbor
Diane C. Swonk, Evanston, Illinois
Synthes' Spine Company, LP, Paoli, Pennsylvania
Toucan Management, LLC, Bethesda, Maryland
A. Galip Ulsoy, Dexter
University of Michigan Club of Detroit Scholarship
Fund, Farmington Hills
University of Michigan Club of Southwest Florida,
Naples, Florida
Wachovia Foudation, Princeton, New Jersey
Elizabeth W. Waggener, Lincoln, Nebraska
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Bentonville, Arizona
Hom-Lay Wang, Canton
Thomas L. Wiese, Dallas, Texas

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Janice B. Longone, Ann Arbor
a large collection of culinary and household arts research materials for the Longone Center for American Culinary
Research at the Clements Library
Pella Window and Door Company, West Bloomfield
twenty windows for the Michigan Solar House Project in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning
August 2005
AGS Foundation for Health in Aging, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... $37,500
Alliance for Lupus Research, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 62,500
ALS of Michigan, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 30,730
American Academy of Periodontology Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Hom-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry.............. 15,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..............................................................   104,043
American Chemical Society, Washington, D. C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 40,000
American College of Rheumatology Research and Education Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 75,000
American Foundation for Urological Disease, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for research and other support in the Medical School....................................... 30,000
American Heart Association, Dallas, Texas
for research and other support in the Medical School, the Center for Human Growth and
Development, and in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 440,650

56



September Meeting, 2005

American Lung Association National Office, New York, New York
forresearch intheMedical School....................................................... 55,000
American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy, Manchester, Massachusetts
forresearch intheMedical School....................................................... 37,500
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
forresearch intheMedical School...................................................... 12,500
J. Reid and Pauline V. Anderson Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the J. Reid and Polly Anderson Fellowship Fund in the College of Engineering................. 48,301
Applied Engineering & Technology Integration, Inc., Troy
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 14,520
Applied Materials Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 28,500
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
forresearch intheMedical School..................................................... 29,167
Arthritis Foundation, Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 75,833
Arthritis National Research Foundation, Long Beach, California
forresearch intheMedical School.................................. 25,000
ASPA Pension Education Research Foundation, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 28,000
Association for Surgical Education Foundation, Springfield, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 25,000
Astellas Pharma US, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois
for support in the Medical School and University Hospitals................................ 16,000
Azalea Foundation, Saint Simons Island, Georgia
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................................... 10,000
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan Foundation, Detroit
for the BCBSM Foundation Award in the School of Public Health............................ 10,000
Jane K. Beam, South Lyon
for the Pediatric Education Center in the Medical School..................................... 12,000
Bruce Benner, Ann Arbor
670 shares of National City Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for support in the School of Music, in memory of Ann W. Benner.............................. 25,000
Donald R. Berg, Grand Rapids
3,125 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Donald R. and Sally Berg Fund for Research in the Medical School......................99,941
Mandell L. Berman, Southfield
for the Sol Drachler Program Scholarship Fund in the School of Social Work.................... 15,000
Mandell L. and Madeleine Berman Foundation, Southfield
for the Berman Graduate Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 15,000
Elizabeth Broomfield Foundation Trust, New City, New York
forsupportinthe College ofPharmacy.................................................. 97,281
Leo Burnett Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................................... 28,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 200,000
Will M. Caldwell, Bloomfield Hills
7,389 units of Sequoia Fund, Inc., mutual fund for support in the Comprehensive Cancer
Center, the School of Music, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 1,105,129
Jeffrey E. Cappo, Ann Arbor
for the Camp Michitanki Transplant Fund............................................... 10,000
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
forresearch inthe School ofEducation............................................ 63,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
forresearch intheLaw School......................................................... 50,000
Chisbetts Foundation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the School of Music..................................... 12,000
Fred M. Cohen, Mamaroneck, New York
150 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Fred and Eileen Cohen UROP Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, andtheArts.......................................10,021
Coherix, Inc., Ann Arbor
forresearchinthe College ofEngineering............................................... 10,000
Cohn Family Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation Philanthropic Fund, Bloomfield Hills
for the Irwin I. Cohn Professorship in the Law School.................................... 200,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and
for the Sylvia C. and Arnold M. Cohodas Dean's Scholarship Fund and
other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...........................45,000

57



September Meeting, 2005

Sylvia Casper Cohodas, Longboat Key, Florida
2,900 shares of Wells Fargo & Company common stock
for the Sylvia C. and Arnold M. Cohodas Dean's Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................................. 175,523
Barbara B. Colegrove, Dallas, Texas
for the Forrest (Don) Colegrove Graduate Fellowship in Physics Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................................... 25,000
Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman, Ann Arbor
520 mutual fund units for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Fund in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies,
for the Leslie Kish International Fellows Fund in the Institute for Social Research,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Life Sciences Fund,
for the Museum of Art Building Project,
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Undergraduate Fund, and
for the Trotter House Renovation Fund................................................. 16,087
Committee to Protect Journalists, Inc., New York, New York
for the Knight Freedom Fellowship for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......................................... 57,365
Thomas M. Cooley Law School, Lansing
for WFUM...................................................................... 17,000
Paul D. Cooper, Westminster, Colorado
for the Paul D. Cooper Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the English
Department in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 150,000
Cooper Family Foundation, Inc., New Hyde Park, New York
for the Cooper Family Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 10,000
Cummins Business Services, Nashville, Tennessee
for the Cummins Masters Project in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............. 13,020
DaimlerChrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for research and other support in the College of Engineering, and the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, and for the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................ 108,750
Deafness Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 33,333
Dell, Inc., Round Rock, Texas
for support in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering and the
Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................................. 30,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research and other support in the Medical School....................................... 35,000
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering Program, Inc., Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 19,000
Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 26,000
Edward F. Domino, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 60000
Dover Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for the Robert and Luise Kleinberg Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..................................................................... 50000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 10000
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................... 108,000
Evangeline L. Dumesnil Trust
for the Maurice H. and Evangeline L. Dumesnil Scholarship in the School of Music............... 93,749
Earhart Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Bentley Historical Library..................................................... 50,000
Ellison Medical Foundation, Redwood City, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 50000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland

58



September Meeting, 2005

Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 71,690
Foundation Fighting Blindness, Owings Mills, Maryland
for research and other support in the Medical School...................................... 524,108
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 21,000
General Motors Corporation, R & D Center, Warren
for research in the College of Engineering.............................................. 500,000
Gerontological Society of America, Washington, D. C.
for research in the School of Social Work............................................... 20000
Glaucoma Research Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 16,000
Alvin L. Glick Foundation, Inc., Jackson
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 100,000
Joseph 1. Goldstein, Chevy Chase, Maryland
1,730 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Goldstein Life Sciences Institute Fund and for the Goldstein Family Endowment
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................... 125,365
Vincent T. Gorguze, La Jolla, California
18,100 shares of Gulfmark Offshore, Inc., common stock for the SSEL Construction Fund
in the College of Engineering....................................................... 529,968
Guardian Industries Corporation, Auburn Hills
for the Basketball Facility Fund in the Department of Athletics and for the M-PACT Endowment.. 2,000,000
Highfield Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Michigan Community Service Corps, for support in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, and
for the University of Michigan-Flint................................................... 12,000
Barry P. Hoffman, Plymouth
for support in the Kellogg Eye Center and
for research in the Medical School....................................................11,000O
LaRue Tone Hosmer, Ann Arbor
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 10,000
Hurley Medical Center, Flint
for support in the School of Dentistry................................................. 307,180
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering.............................................. 148,000
Mrs. Herbert Johe, Ann Arbor
for the Susan L. Johe Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
Herbert W. and Susan L. Johe Endowment Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning and
for support in the Museum of Art.................................................... 200,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health............................................. 158,511
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................... 274,09
Jeremiah Kaplan Foundation, New York, New York
for special exhibitions support in the exhibit Museum...................................... 10,000
John H. Kellogg Estate
for the John H. Kellogg Genetics Fund in the Medical School................................ 15,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies and for research in the School of Public Health............................. 297,111
Richard A. Kerr, Battle Creek
for the Otto Gago, M.D. Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School................. 10,000
Betty Sherwood Kinney Trust
for support in the School of Public Health............................................... 10000
Kiwanis of Mic~higan Foundation, -Petoskey

59



September Meeting, 2005

Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 45,000
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
for support in the Medical School...................................................... 15,000
LLJ/DPJ Family Partners LTD, Keego Harbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund............................ 100,000
Longenbaugh Fund of the Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program, Southeastern, Pennsylvania
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................ 210,000
David R. Macdonald Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Law School......................................................... 18,667
Artur Mager, Los Angeles, California
for the Artur Mager Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts....................................................... 50,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 37,500
James S. McDonnell Foundation, Saint Louis, Missouri
1,143 shares of Boeing company common stock
for research at the University of Michigan............................................... 75,741
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
5,200 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project.............................................. 259,473
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse, New Jersey
for support in the School of Public Health............................................... 35,000
Merck and Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Medical School................................................. 300,000
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
3,500 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Champions Center in the Department of Athletics................................. 204,620
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for research in the School of Education........................................... 75,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research and other support in the Life Sciences Institute and the Medical School................ 58,681
National Kidney Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 12,500
National Kidney Foundation of Michigan, Inc., Lansing
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 28,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 77,548
Thomas and Greta Newhof Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Borchardt and Glysson Water Treatment Fund in the College of Engineering............. 105,000
Nissan Motor Corporation U.S.A., Gardena, California
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 25,000
Northwestern Mutual Life Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 14,567
Casper Y. and Helen B. Offutt Revocable Trust
Two shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the Offutt Family Presidential Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.................................................................. 167,100
Osram Sylvania, Inc., Danvers, Massachusetts
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 15,000
Oxford Company LLC, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 17,500
David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for the Building Fund in the Law School.............................................. 15,000
PBG Michigan LLC, Troy
for the Pepsi-Cola Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics............................. 50,000
Pfizer, Inc., Kalamazoo
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 22,000
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the College of Pharmacy, the Schools of Dentistry and
Medicine, for the University of Michigan Museum of Art's 2005-2006 Season, and the
University Musical Society.................................................. 145,500
P & G Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 61,024
George L. Phillips, Brighton
for the George L. Phillips Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the College
of Pharmacy and the School of Nursing.............................................. 500,000

60



September Meeting, 2005

Margaret Hamlin Phillips, Brighton
for the Margaret Hamlin Phillips Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
College of Pharmacy and the School of Nursing....................................... 250,000
PKD Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Medical School...................................................... 50,000
Pritzker Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 378,658
Prostate Cancer Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 100,00
Gordon S. Prussian, Chicago, Illinois
for the Michigan in Washington Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,000
Pryor Foundation, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania
for the Millard H. Pryor, Jr. Fund for Graduate Student Support in the Stephen M. Ross School
of Business.................................................................50,00
Qualcomm, Inc., San Diego, California
for support in the Law School......................................................... 10,000
Mary L. Ramsey Trust
for support in the Law School......................................................... 25,000
Floyd S. Reid, Laguna Niguel, California
13,000 shares of Keith Companies, Inc., common stock
for the Michigania Capital Gifts Fund................................................. 289,575
Richard Rogel Trust
13,000 shares of Denbury Resources, Inc., common stock
for the Rogel Scholarship Fund....................................................... 614,315
Jalen Rose Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Jalen Rose Endowed Scholarship Fund............................................ 60,000
Jonathan Rye, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 10,000
Sandler Family Supporting Foundation, San Francisco, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 250,000
Schlumberger, Sugar Land, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 35,000
Robert B. Schumer, New York, New York
for the Economics Strategic Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Sensicore, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................12,500
Seremet Family Foundation, Potomac, Maryland
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 25,000
Shell International E & P, Inc., Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 35,000
Donald R. Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
4,000 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Field Hockey Turf Project, the Women's Gymnastics Construction Fund, the
Donald R. Shepherd Spirit Award Fund, and the Donald R. Shepherd Scholarship
Endowment Fund in the Department of Athletics, and
for the Athletics Band Fund in the School of Music....................................... 371,105
William E. Simon Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the William E. and Carol G. Simon Fellowships Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy........................................................... 100,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for the Sloan Fellowship in the College of Engineering..................................... 40,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Ann Arbor
for the Patricia McHoskey Undergraduate Scholarship Fund in the School of Nursing,
in memory of Patricia McHoskey, and
for the Prudence and Amnon Rosenthal Endowment Fund.................................... 11,000
Society for Vascular Surgery, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 75,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research and other support in the School of Education and at the University of Michigan........ 111,950
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 27,500
James H. M. Sprayregen, Glencoe, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............................20,000
Deborah Strange-Browne Inflammatory Breast Cancer Foundation, Schererville, Indiana
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................ 30,000
Viola V. Strempek, Ann Arbor
for the Viola V. Strempek Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of scholarships
at the University of Michigan.................................................... 25,000

61



September Meeting, 2005

Julia A. Sturm, Marshall
for the Sturm Family Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 10,000
Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association, New York, New York
for the University Musical Society................................................. 20,000
Norman W. Thompson, Ann Arbor
for the Norman W. Thompson Fellowship in Endocrine Surgery in the Medical School............. 19,696
Toyota Motor North America, Inc., New York, New York
for the University Musical Society...................................................... 15,000
TRW Automotive Fund of the Cleveland Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................................... 30,000
TRW Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Transportation Research Institute....................................... 20,000
Tuchman Family Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for support in the Law School......................................................... 10,000
Susan K. Tuite Family Trust
for the Julian T. Hoff, M.D. Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School................ 20,000
Jeremiah G. Turcotte, Ann Arbor
1,629 units of Fidelity Magellan mutual funds and a cash gift
for the Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professorship in Transplantation in the Medical
School and for the University Musical Society............................................ 169,193
United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, Washington, D. C.
for research in the Medical School................................................ 25,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington D. C., Washington, D. C.
for the Make a Difference Fund and for the University of Michigan Club of
Washington D. C. Scholarship Fund.................................................... 22,100
Titus Van Haitsma Estate
2,395 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Titus Van Haitsma Dental Student Scholarship in the School of Dentistry.................. 89,957
Laura R. Van Vlack-Ailes, Portage
14,204 units of Fifth Third Bank Proprietary mutual fund
for the Laura R. Van Vlack-Ailes Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................... 220,564
Alta M. West Trust
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 10,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for the Whitaker Foundation Student Fellowship Fund and other support in the
College of Engineering............................................................. 99,972
Whitehall Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 75,000
Young Family Foundation, Plymouth
for the Young Family Foundation Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics............... 120,000
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Sam Zell Dean's Tactical Fund in the Law School.................................. 10000,000
Zukey Lake Tavern, Pinckney
for the R. T. Mott Trails Edge Camp Fund............................................... 28,000

62



September Meeting, 2005

Additional gifts ranging from $5,000
following donors:
Accumed Technologies, Inc., Buffalo, New York
Allergy & Immunology Associates, Ann Arbor
Margaret Acheson Allesee and Robert A. Allesee
Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
American Health Assistance Foundation, Clarksburg,
Maryland
Anonymous Donor
Barton-Malow Company Foundation, Southfield
Bayer, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania
Steven R. Berlage, Troy
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
Brunswick Foundation, Inc., Lake Forest, Illinois
John W. Burau, Gaylord
Robert A. Chartrand, Sun City, Arizona
Cigna Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Coca Cola Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
Nadine Cohodas, Washington, D. C.
Commonwealth Fund Harkness House, New York,
New York
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group Ann Arbor,
Ann Arbor
Crohn's & Colitis Foundation of America, Inc.,
New York, New York
Peter C. Cubba, Bloomfield Hills
Decoma International, Inc., Ontario, Canada
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
Direct TV Group, Inc., El Segundo, California
Thelma Dollar Estate
Geoffrey I. Edelstein, Pacific Palisades, California
Edward W. Elliott, Jr., Deerfield, Illinois
Sidney Fine, Ann Arbor
A. James French Society, Ann Arbor
Bruce and Suzy Gershenson Family Foundation,
Farmington Hills
Yvonne Gluckman, Bay Harbor Islands, Florida
Kalvin M. Grove, Saint Petersburg, Florida
Hand Innovations LLC, Miami, Florida
Gary R. Hibler Living Trust
William H. Hillier Trust

to $9,999 in value were received from the
Steven R. Kalt, Bloomfield Hills
David M. Kimball, Brighton
Daniel L. Kiskis, Ann Arbor
Amy Windle Knight, Basel, Switzerland
Thomas A. LaLonde, Grosse Pointe
Dolores Zohrab Liebmann Fund, New York, New York
Simon M. Lorne, New York, New York
Lubrizol Foundation, Wickliffe, Ohio
Steven H. Mandell, Ann Arbor
Kenji Matsushita, Ann Arbor
Sarah H. McClure, Bloomfield Hills
McKeen Foundation Trust, West Bloomfield
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
Jennifer D. Mooney, Oakland Township
National Heritage Academies, Grand Rapids
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
Pancrean Association of America, Babylon, New York
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
PFRA Charities, Fort Myers, Florida
G. C. Pollex & Associates, Inc., Southfield
Anne D. Slade, Holland
Society of Naval Architects & Marine Engineers,
Jersey City, New Jersey
John L. Strauch, Pepper Pike, Ohio
Stryker Leibinger, Kalamazoo
Truck-Lite Company, Inc., Falconer, New York
University of Michigan Club of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
University of Michigan Club of Toledo, Temperance
University of Michigan Student Organization Accounts,
Ann Arbor
John C. Unkovic, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
David F. Upton, Saint Joseph
Nancy Williams Walls, Ann Arbor
Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research,
Inc., New York, New York
Whole Foods Market Group, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
William B. Wortz, Lansing
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Aastrom Biosciences, Inc., Ann Arbor
biology and biochemistry laboratory equipment for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Bernard Chodorkoff, Waterford
art pieces by Stephen Hodder and Larry Cressman, and John Garrett, Norie Hatekeyama, and Linda Bills, baskets
for the Museum of Art
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
laboratory equipment for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
16 laptops, docking stations, and associated equipment for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
one Omniprober 100 Nanomanipulator for the College of Engineering
Jack A. Rounick, Radnor, Pennsylvania
103 works of art for the Museum of Art
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Gramlich submitted a
number of personnel actions and personnel reports.
Regent McGowan commented on the establishment of the Angus Campbell
Collegiate Professorship in Sociology and Survey Research, noting that Professor

63



September Meeting, 2005

Angus Campbell had a great impact on developing ISR into the renown institution it is
today.    She also called attention to the Henry Pollack Endowed Professorship in
Geological Sciences, noting that it was being made possible through funding by "a very
satisfied student of his, and that's the best kind of all."
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 2005 unless otherwise indicated
Calvet, Nuria P., Ph.D., Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Caston, Victor, Ph.D., Professor of Classical Studies, without tenure, Professor of Philosophy with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Coleman, Robin R. Means, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Communication Studies and Associate
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Forrest, Stephen R., Ph.D., Vice President for Research, Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, Professor of Physics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2006
Hartmann, Lee W., Ph.D., Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Herbst, Patricio G., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Education, School of Education
Johnson, Paul C., Ph.D., Associate Professor of History and Associate Professor of Afroamerican and
African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Jolliet, Olivier J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health
Rood, Richard B., Ph.D., Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, College of
Engineering
Shipan, Charles R., Ph.D., J. Ira and Nicki Harris Professor of Social Sciences and Professor of Political
Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 2005-May 31, 2010
Modrak, Rebekah, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Martin, William C., Reappointment as Donald R. Shepherd Director of Intercollegiate Athletics,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abel, Richard, Robert Altman Collegiate Professor of Film Studies and Professor of International Film
and Media, with tenure, Program in Film and Video Studies, also appointed Interim Chair,
Department of Screen Arts and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2005-June 30, 2006
Acosta-Hughes, Benjamin B., Associate Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, also appointed
Associate Professor of Comparative Literature, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2005
Adams, Fred C., Professor of Physics, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Astronomy, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Adams, Julian P., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, also
appointed Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Blum, Joel D., John D. MacArthur Professor of Geological Sciences, Professor of Geological Sciences,
with tenure, and Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, without tenure, also appointed
Acting Chair, Department of Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 1-December 21, 2005
Evrard, August E., Professor of Physics, with tenure, also appointed Professor of Astronomy, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005

64



September Meeting, 2005

Fink, William L., Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, and Curator, Museum of
Zoology, also appointed Director, Museum of Zoology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Giordano, Thomas J., Associate Professor of Pathology, with tenure, also appointed Associate Professor
of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2005
Gonzalez, Richard D., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Chair, Department of Psychology, also
appointed Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005
Halperin, David M., W.H. Auden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature, Professor of
English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure,
also appointed Professor of Comparative Literature, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Kelley, Mary C., Ruth Bordin Collegiate Professor of History, American Culture, and Women's Studies,
Professor of History, with tenure, Professor of American Culture, with tenure, and Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, also appointed Chair, Department of History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Lippman, Marc E., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, John C. Searle Professor of Internal
Medicine, and Chair, Department of Internal Medicine, also appointed Professor of Pharmacology,
without tenure, Medical School, September 1, 2005
Weisskopf, Thomas E., Professor of Economics, with tenure, also appointed Professor in the Residential
College, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bowers, Jacob W., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
leave of absence extended, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Coronil, Fernando, Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, leave of absence extended,
September 1- December 31, 2005
Kleiner, Bruce A., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
leave of absence extended, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective September 1, 2005 unless otherwise indicated
Establishment of Endowed Professorships
Frederick G.L. Huetwell Professorship in Cardiovascular Medicine, Medical School
Frederick G.L. Huetwell Faculty Development Professorship in Cardiovascular Medicine, Medical
School
Henry Pollack Endowed Professorship in Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts
Renaming of Existing Endowed Professorship
Frederick G.L. Huetwell Professorship in Hypertension/Cardiovascular Medicine, Medical School
Establishment of a Collegiate Professorship
Vincent Massey Collegiate Professorship in Biological Chemistry, Medical School, August 1, 2005
Renaming of Existing Collegiate Professorships
Amos N. Tversky Collegiate Professorship in Communication Studies and Psychology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Angus Campbell Collegiate Professorship in Sociology and Survey Research, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
John T. Groves Collegiate Professorship in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Marvin B. Becker Collegiate Professorship in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Michael M. Martin Collegiate Professorship in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts

65



September Meeting, 2005

OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Collegiate Professorships
Anderson, Elizabeth S., John Rawls Collegiate Professor of Philosophy and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Bloch, Anthony M., Alexander Ziwet Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
House, James S., Angus Campbell Collegiate Professorship in Sociology and Survey Research, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Hu, Jan C.C., Samuel D. Harris Collegiate Professor of Dentistry, October 1, 2005-September 30, 2010
Huesmann, L. Rowell, Amos N. Tversky Collegiate Professor of Communication Studies and
Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Kozyra, Janet U., George Carignan Collegiate Research Professorship, September 1, 2005-August 31,
2010
Lieberman, Victor B., Marvin B. Becker Collegiate Professor of History, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Paulson, William R., Edward Lorraine Walter Collegiate Professor of Romance Languages and
Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Pecoraro, Vincent L., John T. Groves Collegiate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Pichersky, Eran, Michael M. Martin Collegiate Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental
Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Saxonhouse, Arlene W., Caroline Robbins Collegiate Professor of Political Science and Women's
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Scodel, Ruth S., D.R. Shackleton Collegiate Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Weisman, Lois S., Sarah Winans Newman Collegiate Professor in the Life Sciences, Medical School,
August 1, 2005-July 31, 2010
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Hakansson, I. Kristina, Dow Coming Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Khanna, Vikramaditya S., Louis and Myrtle Moskowitz Research Professor of Business and Law, Law
School, September 1-December 31, 2005
Krebsbach, Paul H., Roy H. Roberts Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, October 1,
2005-September 30, 2010
Shanley, Thomas P., Janette Ferrantino Professor of Pediatrics, Medical School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2010
Wu, Sijue, Robert W. And Lynn H. Browne Professor of Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Yanik, Gregory A., Leland and Elaine Blatt Family Professor of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology,
Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Appointments to Named Professorships
Branden, Petter, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, September 1, 2005-May
31, 2008
Eisentrager, Kirsten, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Epstein, Neil, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
McDonald, G. Mark, Howard R. Marsh Visiting Professor of Journalism, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Ramsey, Nicholas, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Spice, Loren, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Tropp, Joel A., T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Yang, Stephanie T., T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008

66



September Meeting, 2005

Reappointment to an Endowed Professorship
McNamara, James A., Jr., The Drs. Thomas M. and Doris Graber Endowed Professor, School of
Dentistry, September 1, 2004-August 31, 2009
Reappointments to Collegiate Professorships
Essene, Eric J., William C. Kelly Collegiate Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Gingerich, Philip D., Ermine Cowles Case Collegiate Professor of Paleontology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Hanlon, Philip J., Donald J. Lewis Collegiate Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Studlar, Gaylyn, Rudolf Amheim Collegiate Professor of Film Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Other Transactions
Danziger, Sheldon H., Correction of title from Henry J. Meyer Collegiate Professor of Public Policy and
Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, to Henry J. Meyer Distinguished University Professor of
Public Policy and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Dominguez, Kathryn M., Transfer of tenure from Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy, and Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts to Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R Ford School of Public
Policy, and Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005
Ferrara, James L., Transfer of tenure from Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, to Professor of Internal Medicine, without
tenure, and Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School, July
1, 2005
Foran, Michael, Associate Dean, School of Management, UM-Dearbor, July 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Gallimore, Alec D., Associate Dean for Academic Programs and Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Gramlich, Edward M., Interim Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, Office of the
President, September 1, 2005
Gray, Robert H., Interim Chair, Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Hecht, Gabrielle, from Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of History,
Residential College, with tenure, to Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Hines, James R., Jr., Transfer of title and tenure, from Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, and Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy to Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Business Economics, without tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September
1, 2005
Kay, Jack, Ph.D., Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Professor of Communication,
with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 6, 2005
MacDonald, Michael P., Term of appointment as Richard Hudson Research Professor of History, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, corrected to January 1-May 31, 2006
Newman, Sarah Winans, Associate Dean for Program Assessment, Horace H. Rackham School of
Graduate Studies, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2007
Penner, Joyce E., Correction of name of professorship to Askel Wiin-Nielsen Collegiate Professor of
Atmospheric Sciences, College of Engineering, September 1, 2005
Pierce, Lori J., Associate Provost for Academic and Faculty Affairs, Office of the Provost and Executive
Vice President for Academic Affairs, August 1, 2005
Schatzel, Kim, Associate Dean, School of Management, UM-Dearborn, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Sekelsky, Mary Jo, Vice Chancellor for Student Services and Enrollment Management, UM-Flint, July 1,
2005
Skivington, Kristen Dahlen, Vice Chancellor for Institutional Advancement, UM-Flint, July 1, 2005
Steel, Robert, Associate Dean, School of Management, UM-Dearborn, July 1, 2006-December 31, 2006
Svejnar, Jan, from Evertt E. Berg Professor of Business Administration, Professor of Business,
Economics, Corporate Strategy, and International Business, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School
of Business, and Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
to Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, Professor of
Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Evertt E. Berg Professor

67



September Meeting, 2005

of Business Administration, and Professor of Business, Economics, Corporate Strategy, and
International Business, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September 1, 2005
Todd, III, Robert F., Associate Vice President for Research, September 1, 2005-December 31, 2005
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Young, Alford A., September 1, 2005-August 31, 2007, vice Deborah Loewenberg Ball, serving as
Interim Dean of the School of Education
Institute for Social Research Executive Committee
Ball, Deborah Loewenberg, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006, vice Karen K. Wixson, term as dean
ended
Kottak, Conrad P., September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008, vice Pamela J. Smock, term expired
Lichter, Allen S., September 1, 2005-August 31, 2007, vice Douglas S. Kelbaugh, term expired
McDonald, Terrence J., September 1, 2005-August 31, 2007, vice Susan A. Gelman, term expired
Warner, Kenneth E., September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008, vice Rebecca M. Blank, term expired
Weiss, Janet A.,, ex officio, vice Steven L. Kunkel, interim term ended
Committee on Honorary Degrees
Istock, Judith (alumna representative), retroactive, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007 vice, Robert G. Forman,
term expired
Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Gramlich submitted the following personnel
reports:
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Aghaei, Behrad, M.A., Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Ashman, Jennifer H., M.S., Intermittent Lecturer in Marketing, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Benschoter, Kristi L., M.S.N., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2005-April 30,
2006
Bolmarcich, Sarah M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Brunelle, Marc, Ph.D., Lecturer in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2005-April 30, 2006
Connor, Laurence D., J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Law, Law School, September 1-December 31, 2005
Dyson, Henry N., M.N., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Edlich, Micha, M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Ernst, Daniel J., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2005
Forrester, Kathleen, M.S., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Frever, Tinna, Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Gonzalez, Jennifer H., J.D., Lecturer I in Law and Environment, UM-Dearborn School of Management,,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Hervas, Dolores M. Pons, Ph.D., Lecturer III in Foreign Language, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences,, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Iglesias-Garrido, Carla, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
McCann, Peggy S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1-December
31, 2005
Mitias, Michael H., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Philosophy, Department of Humanities, College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, UM- Dearborn, September 1-December 31, 2005
Moga, Paul J., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1, 2005-May 31,
2006

68



September Meeting, 2005

Olsen, Joshua, M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Parenteau, Julie L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1-December
31, 2005
Peck, William, M.A., Lecturer in Art History, Department of Humanities, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters,, September 1-December 31, 2005
Putnam, Michael T., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Robinson, Jeremy R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Salameh, Mohamad, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Thelen, Neil A., M.Arch., Lecturer I in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Vanderwill, William L., M.S.W., Lecturer III in Social Work, School of Social Work, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Venable, Thomas C., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Wandmacher, Victoria E., B.A., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Williams, Elizabeth M., M.A., Intermittent Lecturer in Business, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1-December 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS'
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Badgley, Cahtherine E., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Paleontology, Residential College, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, personal leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Boys, Kimberly S., M.A., Lecturer III in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal
leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Eriksson, Johanna U., M.A., Lecturer III in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, family medical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Kirkpatrick, Jennifer F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, personal leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Thompson, Hilary J., Ph.D., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, outside teaching leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Wright, Susan, Ph.D., Lecturer III in History, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, personal leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Agarwal, Prachi, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Agnani, Sunil M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Alberto, Paulina L., Ph.D., Instructor in History, and Instructor in Spanish, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Alexander, Larry D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Sciences,, College of Arts, sciences, and
letters, UM-Dearbor, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Aronson, Pamela J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, UM-Dearbom, College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Avram, Anca M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June
30, 2006
Awny, Nahed H., M.A., Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
July 1-August 31, 2005
Bailey, Marianne E., M.A., Lecturer I in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Bersaglia, Glen S., M.M., Clinical Lecturer in Music, School of Music, July 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Bettcher, Catherine M., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005 -August 31, 2006

69



September Meeting, 2005

Bosher, Erin E., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, August 1, 2005-July 31,
2006
Brilakis, loannis, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Bruce, Emily S., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Busui, Rodica, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Chambers-Taylor, Claudia S., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
July 11, 2005-August 31, 2006
Chan, Kevin M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 19,
2005-September 18, 2006
Choi, Soyoung A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Chopra, Pavan, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Civil, Yolaine A., M.D., Clinical Instructor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Comer, Grant M., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July
7, 2005-July 6, 2006
Csankovszki, Gyorgyi, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Davis, Lucas W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Des Jardins, Deborah H., M.Phil., Lecturer I in English, English Language Institute, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Diamond, Beth, M.L.A., Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Dick, Christopher W., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Dotson, Garry D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, August 1,
2005-July 31, 2006
Draus, Paul J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
UM-Dearbor, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Dykstra, Alan J., M.S., Lecturer I in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Dyson, Melissa C., D.V.M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, Medical
School, August 5, 2005-August 31, 2008
Egan, Andrew M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Elsby, Michael W. L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Elstrom, Rebecca L., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June
30,2012
Falon, Paul H., J.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2007
Finks, Jonathan F., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, August 1, 2005-July
31, 2006
Fournier, Karen J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Music (Music Theory), School of Music, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2009
Frederick, Robert E., M.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Fredericks, Emily M., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Froman, Ann A., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 1,
2005-September 30, 2007
George, Kristi J., B.S.N., Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Health Professions and
Studies, UM-Flint, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Gestwicki, Jason E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, August 1, 2005-July 31,
2008
Gilbert, Scott M., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Gold, Katherine J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-August 31,
2006
Greer, Scott E. L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Griffith, Anna A., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, August 1,
2005-August 31, 2006

70



September Meeting, 2005

Groat, Tina D., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Gurm, Hitinder S., M.B.B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1,
2005-June 30, 2012
Haft, Jonathan W., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
He, Yongqun, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, Medical School, July 1,
2005-June 30, 2007
Hernandez, Rudolf, B.A., Instructor in Sociology/Anthropology/Criminal Justice, College of Arts and
Sciences, UM-Flint, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Heung, Michael, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Hirunwiwatkul, Parima, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
July 7, 2005-July 6, 2006
Howell, David D., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Howson, Nicholas C., J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Hu, Patrick J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2011
Jacobs, Sean H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies and Assistant Professor of
Afro-American and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2008
Jenckes, Katharine M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Johnson, Crista E., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, August 1,
2005-June 30, 2006
Johnson, Susan L., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Kaufman, Amanda J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-August
31, 2006
Kielar, Ania, Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
King, Aaron A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Kitchen, Brenda J., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, August 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Koenig, Gerald C., Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Krijanovski,, Oleg I., Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Hematology and Oncology, Medical School, July 1,
2005-June 30, 2006
Kwak, Jin Shin R., M.D., Clinical Instructor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Kwon, Richard S., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2005-July
31, 2006
Landon, Stephen D., M.F.A., Assistant Professor of Theatre and Dance, College of Arts and Sciences,
UM-Flint, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Lee, Duane C., B.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Ma, Linglei, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology and Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology,
Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Majersik, Jennifer J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
McKenna, Brian M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
UM-Dearbor, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
McKinley, Cheryl L., M.A., Lecturer in Philosophy, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, July 1,
2005-August 31, 2005
Menees, Stacy B., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Miller, David C., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Urology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Miller, Jon M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Astronomy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Mintz, Roni, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 1,
2005-July 6, 2006
Moustafa, Tarek S., M.B.C.H.B., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Napieralski, Jacob A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geology, College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
UM- Dearborn, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006

71



September Meeting, 2005

Ono, Akira, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, August 1,
2005-June 30, 2007
Pallekonda, Vinay A., M.B.B.S., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology and Clinical Lecturer in Internal
Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Pang, Yijun, Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2008
Parmar, Hemant, M.B.B.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, August 1,
2005-July 31, 2006
Patil, Parag, Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Neurosurgery, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Peters, Elyssa R., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July
7, 2005-July 6, 2006
Philipich, Kirk L., D.B.A., Assistant Professor of Accounting and Finance, School of Management, UMDearborn, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2008
Predhomme, Angela M., M.A., Lecturer I in English, English Language Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Preston, Stephanie D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Reynhout, Kimberly S., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine and Clinical Instructor in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Rogers, Alexander J., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine and Clinical Instructor in
Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2006
Rosi, Yolanda L., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Sandkvist. B. Maria, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, July
1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Sarwar, Nadia, M.B., Clinical Instructor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Schaefer, Diane, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Schiopu, Elena, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2005-July 31,
2006
Schoenemann, Paul T., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, UM-Dearbor, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Seinfeld, Gil, J.D., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
Seliya, Naeem A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, College of
Engineering and Computer Science, UM-Dearbor, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2007
Shanawani, Hasan, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 6, 2005-June 5,
2006
Srinivasan, Ashok, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Staudt, Elizabeth A., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Szekely, Daniel R., Ph.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School,
August 15, 2005-August 31, 2006
Taylor, Jacquelyn Y., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2005-May
31, 2006
Thomson, Dale E., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, UM-Dearborn,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2008
Tibbetts, Elizabeth A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Tsai, Thomas T., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Tschopp, David R., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
Violi, Angela, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1,
2006-May 31, 2009
Wang, Yanzhaung, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Willatt, Jonathan M.G., M.B.C.H.B., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June
30, 2006
Wittkopp, Patricia J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Wolf, Andrew B., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July
7, 2005-July 6, 2006
Wong, Sandra S., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, July 11, 2005-July 10, 2006
Xi, Chuanwu, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006

72



September Meeting, 2005

Yarjanian, John A., D.O., Clinical Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
July 11, 2005-July 10, 2006
Zeiss, Rebecca S., M.F.A., Lecturer in Art, College of Arts and Sciences, UM-Flint, July 1-August 31,
2005
Zhang, Jing, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Howell, David D., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, July 1,
2005-June 30, 2006, previously reported as Clinical Lecturer in Radiation Oncology
Lau, Christine L., M.D., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, August 3, 2005-August 31,
2006, previously reported as July 25, 2005-August 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Chugh, Aman, from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2012
Corey, Joseph M., from Clinical Lecturer in Neurology to Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical
School, August 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Day, Sharlene M., from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2012
Grossman, Paul M., from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Hammoud, Maya M., from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology and Assistant Professor of Medical Education, Medical School, August
1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Helton, Caroline G., from Assistant Professor of Music (Performing Arts) to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Music (Performing Arts), School of Music, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
Hollenbeck, Brent K., from Clinical Lecturer in Urology to Assistant Professor of Urology, Medical
School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Kessler, Marc L., from Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology to Clinical Associate Professor of
Radiation Oncology, Medical School, May 27, 2005-May 26, 2006
Kumagai, Arno K., from Clinical Associate Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine and Clinical Associate Professor of Medical Education, Medical
School, August 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Laroche, Helena H., from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School, September 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Li, Feng, from Lecturer in Business to Assistant Professor of Business, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, July 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Pelosi, Frank, Jr., from Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 13, 2005-August 31, 2008
Prabhakar, Avinash, from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Clinical Instructor in Internal
Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Rosen, David S., from Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Clinical Professor
of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Clinical Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical
School, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2006
Rosenberg, Noah A., from Assistant Professor of Human Genetics to Assistant Professor of Human
Genetics, Medical School and Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008

73



September Meeting, 2005

CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Moyer, Jeffrey S., from Clinical Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology to Assistant Professor of
Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006, previously reported as Clinical
Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Aminoff, David, Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Brown, Allan C., Associate Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Chesler, Mark, Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Howrey, E. Philip, Professor Emeritus of Economics and Professor Emeritus of Statistics, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2006
Kamchi, Noriko, Professor Emeritus of History, Department of Social Sciences, UM-Dearborn College
of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, July 1, 2005-August 31, 2005
Kirsh, Marvin M., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Knoll, Glenn F., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of
Engineering, July 1-October 31, 2005
Konnak, John W., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Louis, Dean S., Professor Emeritus of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
McNamara, Leo F., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Naylor, Bernard, Professor Emeritus of Pathology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Newman, Sarah W., Professor Emerita of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June
30, 2006
Sloan, Herbert, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Steude, Georgine M., Assistant Professor Emerita of Anesthesiology and Assistant Professor Emerita of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Teorey, Toby J., Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Townsend, Leroy B., Albert B. Prescott Professor Emeritus, Professor Emeritus of Medicinal Chemistry,
College of Pharmacy, and Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-December 31, 2005
Weg, John G., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Algase, Donna L., Josephine Sana Collegiate Professor of Nursing and Professor of Nursing, with tenure,
School of Nursing, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Alvarez, David J., Assistant Professor of Family Medicine and Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic
Surgery, Medical School, personal leave, November 4, 2004-February 15, 2005
Alvarez, Mario A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, personal leave,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Anderson, Jami L., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Angur, Madhukar G., David M. French Professor and Professor of Marketing, with tenure, School of
Management, UM-Flint, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Anspach, Renee, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Women's
Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2005
Barsky, Robert B., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006

74



September Meeting, 2005

Baxter, William H., III, Associate Professor of Chinese Language and Literature, with tenure,
Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, and Associate Professor of Chinese Language and
Literature, without tenure, Program in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Becker, Judith O., Glenn McGeoch Collegiate Professor of Music (Musicology) and Professor of Music,
with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Bemitsas, Michael M., Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Berridge, Kent C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Blair, Sara B., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Borschel, Debaroti M., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, personal leave, July 15,
2005-July 15, 2006
Brown, Daniel G., Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, with tenure, School of
Natural Resources and Environment, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Burt, Brian A., Professor of Dental Public Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2004-December 31, 2005
Carlson, Bruce M., Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, July 1,
2004-June 30, 2006
Carson, John S., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Clark, Noreen M., Marshall H. Becker Collegiate Professor of Public Health, Professor of Health
Behavior and Health Education, with tenure, School of Public Health, and Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, administrative leave, July 1,
2005-June 30, 2006
Colas, Santiago, Associate Professor of Spanish, Latin American Literature, and Comparative Literature,
with tenure, and Associate Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, September 1-December 31, 2005, and sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Collier, Kristin M., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, personal leave, July
12-August 18, 2005
Cornish, Alison, Associate Professor of Italian, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Cressman, Joel L., Associate Professor of Residential College, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, duty
off campus leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Cureton, Richard D., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Cushing, Simon S., Associate Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Dapogny, James, Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, School of Music, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Darwall, Stephen L., John Dewey Collegiate Professor of Philosophy, and Professor of Philosophy, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
2005
Douglas, Nancy L., Associate Professor of Reading and Language Arts, with tenure, School of
Education, UM-Dearbor, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Eliav, Yaron Z., Jean and Samuel Frankel Professor of Rabbinic Literature, and Assistant Professor of
Rabbinic Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2004-May 31, 2006
Flax, Neil M., Associate Professor of Comparative Literature and German, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2007
Forsdyke, Sara L., Assistant Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Fry-Welch, Donna K., Associate Professor of Physical Therapy, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Health
Professions and Studies, sabbatical leave, January 1-June 30, 2006
Glasgow, Robert E., Professor of Music (Organ), with tenure, School of Music, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Green, Thomas A., John Philip Dawson Collegiate Professor of Law, Professor of Law, with tenure, Law
School, and Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2009
Hardin, Rebecca D., Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, and Assistant Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006

75



September Meeting, 2005

Hart, Janet C., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005, and duty off campus effective January 1 -May 31, 2006
Hasselbrink, Ernest, Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, personal
leave, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Hill-Rowley, Richard, Associate Professor of Earth and Resource Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College
of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Hubbs, Nadine M., Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Music (Music Theory), with tenure, School of Music,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Ibbett, Katherine M., Assistant Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Jennings, Andrew W., Professor of Music (Violin), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Jones, J. Wayne, Arthur F. Thurau Professor and Professor of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering,
with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Kaplan, George A., Thomas Francis Collegiate Professor of Public Health and Professor of
Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Kim, Jong-Jin, Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Knowles, Laura L., Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Kollmann, Judith J., Professor of English, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2004-December 31, 2005
Kosch, Michelle A., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Kraus, Carolyn W., Associate Professor of Communications and Composition, with tenure,
UM-Dearbor College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, scholarly activity leave, February 15-May 9,
2005
Krutikov, Mikhail, Assistant Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, and Assistant Professor of
Judaic Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research leave, September 1-December
31, 2005, and duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Kunju, Lakshmi P., Clinical Lecturer in Pathology, Medical School, personal leave, August 8-September
16, 2005
Lambropoulos, Vassilios, C.P. Cavavfy Professor of Moder Greek Studies, Professor of Moder Greek
Studies, with tenure, and Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005, and scholarly activity
leave January 1-May 31, 2006
Lemon, Alaina M., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Liu, James T., Associate Professor of Physics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Masuzawa, Tomoko, Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, and Professor of History, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31,
2006
McLaughlin, Catherine G., Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public
Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Mir, Farina, Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus
leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Mrazek, Rudolf, Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
Mullaney, Steven G., Associate Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Naber, Nadine C., Assistant Professor of Women's Studies and Assistant Professor of American Culture
Program, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, September
1-December 31, 2005
Nevett, Lisa C., Assistant Professor of Classical Studies and Assistant Professor of History of Art, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Newman, Mark E., Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Northrop, Douglas T., Associate Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Petty, Wayne C., Associate Professor of Music (Music Theory), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2006

76



September Meeting, 2005

Potter, David S., D. Phil, Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Prasad, Gopal, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Raithel, Georg A., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Raudenbush, Stephen W., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, Professor of
Statistics, without tenure, and Professor of Sociology, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, personal leave, July 1, 2005-July 31, 2006
Renne, Elisha P., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Afro-American and African Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Richards, Janet E., Associate Professor of Egyptology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Rosenberg, Victor, Associate Professor of Information, with tenure, School of Information, sabbatical
leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Rosi, Yolanda L., Clinical Lecturer in Dermatology, Medical School, personal leave, July 1-September
30, 2005
Rubin, Jonathan M., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, January
1-March 31, 2005
Santos, Erik R., Associate Professor of Music (Composition), with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical
leave, July 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Scobey, David M., Associate Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Siegfried, Susan L., Professor of History of Art, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2006
Siegmund, Stefanie B., Associate Professor of History and Judaic Studies, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Silverman, Daniel S., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Smuts, Barbara B., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Somers, Margaret R., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor of History, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Spector, Scott D., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Stem, Susan A., Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical
leave, January 1-June 30, 2005
Stolyarov, Dmitriy L., Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2005, and sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2006
Straffon, Lloyd H., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Clinical Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Straub, Richard O., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Taghaboni-Dutta, Fataneh, Associate Professor of Management, with tenure, UM-Flint School of
Management, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Thornton, J. Mills, III., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, May 2, 2005-May 31, 2010
Turner, James A., Professor of Architecture, with tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Varshney, Ashutosh, Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2005, duty off campus leave, January 1 -May 31, 2006
Verhey, Roger F., Professor of Mathematics, Department of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, and Professor of Education, without tenure, UM-Dearbom School of
Education, retirement furlough, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2006
Ward, Lucretia M., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Wenzel, Jennifer A., Assistant Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Williams, Gareth, Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006

77



September Meeting, 2005

Wixson, Karen K., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, administrative leave, July
1-December 31, 2005, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Wolff, Karen L., Paul Boylan Collegiate Professor of Music and Professor of Music, with tenure, School
of Music, duty off campus, August 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Wong, Cara J., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Woods, Leigh A., Professor of Theatre and Drama, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2005
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Amdur, Richard L., Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, June 10, 2005
Benson, Mark R., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Burslem, Elizabeth A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2005
Clemons, William E., Assistant Professor of Neurology and Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry,
Medical School, July 8, 2005
Deng, Jane C., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Dignas, Beate D., Assistant Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December
31, 2005
Dixson, Pamela J., Clinical Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, July 8,
2005
Duff, Michael J., Poskar Klein Collegiate Professor of Physics and Professor of Physics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Eagleton, Matthew J., Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Fazel, Reza, Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Hilles, Richard K., Lecturer II in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2005
Inadomi, John M., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, August 3,
2005
Jackson, Sherman A., Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, May 31, 2005
Keenan, Gail M., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, August 31, 2005
Kintner, Eileen K., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2005
Kramer, Jon M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Assistant Professor of Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 31, 2005
Myers, David A., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 1,
2005
Ng, Nathan C., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2005
Nghiem, Hanh V., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, August 19, 2005
Reilly, Molly, Lecturer in Art, College of Arts and Sciences, UM- Flint, June 30, 2005
Schneider, Janel S., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Sorom, Galen R., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Southard, Sarah H., Lecturer in Music, College of Arts and Sciences, UM- Flint, June 30, 2005
Srivastava, Sunita D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Stein, Brian D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Thornburg, Courtney D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
June 30, 2005
Underwood, Willie, III., Assistant Professor of Urology, Medical School, June 11, 2005
Uribe, Bernardo, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
31, 2005
Van Houweling, Molly S., Assistant Professor of Law, Law School, August 31, 2005
Van Houweling, Robert P., Assistant Professor of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
and Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2005
VanDoren, Elaine, Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, August 31, 2005
Williams, Jennifer A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, July
15, 2005
Willoughby-Herard, Tiffany J., Assistant Professor of Africana Studies, College of Arts and Sciences,
UM- Flint, May 31, 2005

78



September Meeting, 2005

Retired
Bartlett, Robert H., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Casey, Kenneth L., Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, with tenure, and Professor of
Neurology, with tenure, Medical School, August 31, 2005
Hamilton, James C., Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, July 31, 2005
Tillinghast, Richard W., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2005
Williams, Charles H. Jr., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Wright, Susan P., Lecturer III in History of Science, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Term Completed
Afshar, Yashar, Lecturer III in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
31, 2005
Al-Ahdab, Mohamad, Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, June
30, 2005
Artar, Ali O., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Bell, Jason P., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2005
Bergman, Torrey C., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Bharali, Gautam, Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
31, 2005
Bucher, Rodney S., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6,
2005
Bucholz, Jeffrey T., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, September 11, 2005
Cotton, Erica L., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
de Fernex, Tommaso, T. H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics, Assistant
Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Eisengart, Jonathan A., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6,
2005
Harrington, John J., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, July 20, 2005
Hossain, Afzal, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering, College of
Engineering and Computer Science, UM- Dearborn, April 30, 2005
Huls, Tara A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education and Human Services, UMFlint, July 31, 2005
Ion, Bodgan, T.H. Hildebrandt Research Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Assistant Professor of
Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2005
Lyng, Gregory D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
31, 2005
Muscato, Mark A., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Parsons, Alta B., Lecturer in Foreign Languages, College of Arts and Sciences, UM- Flint, April 30,
2005
Patel, Sanjay V., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, July 6, 2005
Reynolds, David L., Jr., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Riskalla, Mona M., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, July 31,
2005
Rossmanith, James A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2005
Roush, William R., Warner-Lambert Park Davis Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Chemistry,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 30, 2005
Scheper, Jeanne A., Lecturer in of Africana Studies, College of Arts and Sciences, UM- Flint, April 30,
2005
Shoosmith, John P., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Wu, Guojin, Assistant Professor of Finance, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, May 31, 2005
CORRECTION TO
TERMINATION OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Tillinghast, Richard W., Professor of English, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retired August 31, 2005 (previously reported as retired May 31, 2005)
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 10 retiring
faculty members. Executive Vice President Kelch commented on the extraordinary

79



September Meeting, 2005

careers of the five medical school faculty members who are retiring: Stanley Berent,
Kenneth L. Casey, Bertram Pitt, Robert H. Bartlett, and Jeoffrey K. Stross.
Robert H. Bartlett, M.D., professor of surgery in the Medical School, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 2005, after a most productive career.
Dr. Bartlett received his B.A. degree from Albion College in 1960 and his M.D.
degree from the University of Michigan in 1963. He completed his residency training at
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital from 1963-69, and was a National Institutes of Health
trainee in academic surgery at Harvard Medical School from 1969-70. From 1970-80,
he was on the faculty at the University of California-Irvine. Dr. Bartlett joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1980 as professor of surgery in the sections of general
and thoracic surgery, and he served as director of the Surgical Intensive Care Unit,
director of graduate education, and chief of the Trauma Burn/Critical Care Division.
Dr. Bartlett is best known for the development of extracorporeal membrane
oxygenation, a modified heart-lung machine used for patients with acute heart or lung
failure that has dramatically improved the survival rate for infants, children, and adults
with this condition. His talents as an extraordinary investigator have been recognized
throughout his career. He received 26 research grants, including 14 from the National
Institutes of Health, served on the editorial boards of ten major medical journals, and
wrote more than 300 articles in peer-reviewed publications. Within the University, Dr.
Bartlett developed the Extracorpeal Life Support Program and a surgical critical care
fellowship. Through his tutelage, hundreds of general surgery residents and critical care
fellows have developed into leaders in surgery.
For his preeminent contributions, Dr. Bartlett received numerous awards,
including the Sheen Award for Research and the Jacobson Innovation Award from the
American College of Surgeons, the Medal of Special Recognition from the National
Academy of Surgery of France, the Medallion for Scientific Achievement from the
American Surgical Association, and election to the National Academy of Science's
Institute of Medicine. He served as president of the American Society for Artificial
Internal Organs and the International Society for Artificial Organs.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Robert H. Bartlett
professor emeritus of surgery.
Stanley Berent, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the Medical School, the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the School of Public Health, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 2005.
Professor Berent received his B.S. degree from Old Dominion University in 1966,
his M.S. degree from Virginia Commonwealth University in 1967, and his Ph.D. degree
from Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey in 1971. He completed his clinical
internship and postdoctoral training at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in 1972 and served on
the faculty of Virginia Commonwealth University from 1967-79. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an associate professor of psychology in the
Department of Psychiatry in 1979 and was promoted to professor in 1990. He received
additional appointments in the Departments of Psychology (1981), Neurology (1986),
and Environmental and Industrial Health (1994).
A distinguished administrator, Professor Berent created one of the premier
neuropsychology programs in any medical center. He initiated postdoctoral training
programs in psychology and in neuropsychology and served as chief of psychology in
the Department of Psychiatry. Active in faculty affairs, he served as chair of the Senate

80



September Meeting, 2005

Advisory Committee on University Affairs, chair of the Senate Assembly, and presiding
officer of the Faculty Senate. He was also a key leader at the Ann Arbor Veterans
Administration Medical Center, where he initiated and oversaw the development of an
accredited internship program, established a postdoctoral training program, served as
chief of the psychology service, and founded and directed the neuropsychology program.
Professor Berent has received numerous research grants and is the author of over
100 manuscripts, books, and book chapters. His awards include a "Merit Authorship
Award" from the American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine in
recognition of exemplary service and outstanding contributions to the field of
occupational medicine, and election as a fellow of the American Psychological
Association.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Stanley Berent professor emeritus of psychology.
Kenneth L. Casey, M.D., professor of molecular and integrative physiology and
professor of neurology in the Medical School, retired from active faculty status on August
31, 2005.
Dr. Casey received his B.A. degree from Whitman College in 1957 and his M.D.
degree from the University of Washington in 1961. He served his internship at the New
York Hospital and pursued post-doctoral training in neurophysiology at the National
Institutes of Health and at McGill University. Dr. Casey joined the University of
Michigan faculty as assistant professor of physiology in 1966 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1969. He received an additional appointment as associate professor
of neurology in 1974, and was promoted to professor of neurology and professor of
physiology in 1978. He also served as chief of the neurology service at the Ann Arbor
Veterans Affairs Medical Center from 1980-2002.
Throughout his career, Dr. Casey has contributed greatly to the vitality of the
scholarly, educational, and clinical missions of the University of Michigan. His
distinguished research career focused on central nervous system pain mechanisms, and his
work includes seminal animal experimental studies of central nervous system pain
function, important theoretical work on pain perception and the organization of central
nervous system pain pathways, and groundbreaking human clinical studies of the
functional anatomy of pain systems. He has published over 80 peer-reviewed publications
and over 40 book chapters and edited 3 monographs.
Dr. Casey has an outstanding record of service nationally and internationally as a
journal editor, grant reviewer for the National Institutes of Health, and officer of major
professional organizations. His honors include the John J. Bonica Distinguished
Lectureship and Award from the American Society of Regional Anesthesia and Pain
Medicine and the Distinguished Service Award and the Frederick W.L. Kerr Basic
Science Research Award and Lectureship for lifetime achievement in basic science
research from the American Pain Society. In 2002, Pfizer Inc. recognized Dr. Casey's
contributions to neuroscience by endowing the Kenneth L. Casey Lectureship.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Kenneth L. Casey
professor emeritus of molecular and integrative physiology and professor emeritus of
neurology.
Michael S. Flynn, Ph.D., research scientist in the University of Michigan
Transportation Research Institute, retired from active faculty status on March 15, 2005.

81



September Meeting, 2005

Dr. Flynn received his B.A. degree from the College of the Holy Cross in 1964
and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in
1968 and 1972, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1969 as a
lecturer in sociology and was promoted to assistant professor in 1972. In 1976 he
became a research associate and then senior research associate in the School of
Education, and from 1981-85 he was associate research scientist in the Center for
Japanese Studies. Dr. Flynn left the University in 1985 to join the Industrial
Technology Institute. He returned in 1988 as a research scientist in the University of
Michigan Transportation Research Institute, and was appointed director of the Office
for the Study of Automotive Transportation in 2000.
Dr. Flynn's work on manufacturing cost differences and manufacturer-supplier
relationships for the joint U.S.-Japan automotive study became a critical early alert for
companies in the U.S. industry as they faced stiffened global competition. On a U.S. State
Department funded project for the Chinese automotive industry, Dr. Flynn's research
shaped the parameters of Sino-U.S. automotive relationships. He directed the competitive
assessment of the North American automotive industry for the Automotive Select Panel of
the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, which formed the basis for recommendations to
the president that influenced U.S. automotive trade policies with Canada and Mexico. He
also led a series of projects that focused on important structural changes and tensions
occurring in the automotive industry as traditional domestic manufacturers began to
transfer engineering and research development responsibilities to suppliers and to
rationalize the flow of product along the supply chain. Dr. Flynn, a member of the Society
of Automotive Engineers, has testified before the U.S. Senate, the U.S. House of
Representatives, and the U.S. International Trade Commission on various aspects of
industry competitiveness. He authored reports that provided the automotive industry with
early warnings on critical human and organizational challenges, and he regularly
contributes analytic articles to the general news media.
The Board of Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Michael S. Flynn
research scientist emeritus.
William E. Kotowicz, D.D.S, Roy H. Roberts Professor of Dentistry and
professor of dentistry in the School of Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on
August 31, 2005.
Dr. Kotowicz received his D.D.S and M.S. degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1966 and 1968, respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty
as an assistant professor in 1969 and was promoted to associate professor in 1971 and
professor in 1974. He was named the Roy H. Roberts Professor of Dentistry in 2004.
A highly-respected administrator, Dr. Kotowicz served the School of Dentistry
as interim dean (1987-89), senior associate dean (1989-95), acting dean (1995-96), and
dean (1997-2003). During this time, he chaired the transition committee that
orchestrated the successful reorganization of the school and initiated and implemented a
successful community-based clinical education model involving the creation of five
new partnerships in communities across the state. He also served on various University
committees, including the Academic Program Group and the Health Sciences Council.
Dr. Kotowicz has been a visiting professor at the University of California-San
Francisco, the University of Zurich, and the Universitat Bern, Switzerland. He is a
diplomate of the American Board of Prosthodontics, a fellow in the Academy of
Prosthodontics, and a member of Omicron Kappa Upsilon and Phi Kappa Phi honorary

82



September Meeting, 2005

societies. He is an active member of the American and International Associations for
Dental Research, the American and Michigan Dental Associations, the Michigan
Society of Prosthodontics, and the American Dental Education Association's Council of
Deans. For his outstanding achievements, Dr. Kotowicz has received numerous awards,
including the African American Alumni Award for support and commitment to
diversity (2003), the Ida Gray Award for outstanding efforts in promoting multicultural
ideals (2003), and honorary membership in Sigma Phi Alpha (2004), a dental hygienist
academic honorary society.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming William E. Kotowicz professor emeritus of dentistry and dean
emeritus.
Martin L. Maehr, Ph.D., professor of education in the School of Education and
professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from
active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Professor Maehr received his B.A. (1955) and M.Div. (1958) degrees from
Concordia Seminary in St. Louis, Missouri, and his M.A. (1959) and Ph.D. (1960)
degrees from the University of Nebraska. He served on the faculty at Concordia Senior
College in Fort Wayne, Indiana from 1960-67 and at the University of Illinois from
1967-88. At the University of Illinois, Professor Maehr was chair of the Department of
Educational Psychology (1970-75), associate dean for graduate and international
programs in the College of Education (1975-77), research professor (1977-88), and
associate director (1977-86) and director (1986-88) of the Institute for Child Behavior
and Development. Professor Maehr joined the University of Michigan faculty as
professor of education and professor of psychology in 1988, and he served as director of
the combined program in education and psychology from 1989-92.
Professor Maehr's research focused on motivation and achievement, school
culture and climate, leadership and group processes, interpersonal relationships, and
socio-cultural origins of achievement. He recently directed a research program on
"Motivation and Achievement in Groups" funded by the Spencer Foundation, the
National Science Foundation, and the University of Michigan, and he is principal
investigator of a research project on the measurement of motivation sponsored by the
National Science Foundation. Professor Maehr has published more than 100 papers in
scholarly journals and authored or co-authored several texts and widely used
measurement instruments. He is also co-editor of a major book series: Advances in
Motivation and Achievement. He has received numerous awards, fellowships, and
research grants including a National Institutes of Mental Health special postdoctoral
fellowship, a PEW Foundation resident fellowship at the Erasmus Institute, University
of Notre Dame, and a special senior scholar fellowship at Leuven University, Belgium.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Martin L.
Maehr professor emeritus of education and professor emeritus of psychology.
Bertram Pitt, M.D., professor of internal medicine in the Medical School, retired
from active faculty status on June 30, 2005.
Dr. Pitt received his B.A. degree from Cornell University in 1953 and his M.D.
degree from the University of Basel, Switzerland, in 1959. Following his internship and
residency at Beth Israel Hospital (1959-63), he served in the U.S. Army medical corps
(1963-65) and on the faculty at The Johns Hopkins University (1966-77). He joined the

83



September Meeting, 2005

University of Michigan faculty as professor and chief of the Division of Cardiology in
1977, and continued as chief until 1991.
While building one of the most outstanding clinical and research divisions in the
nation, Dr. Pitt carried on an active research career. He began a series of large clinical
trials which have had a significant impact on the way we view current management of
coronary heart disease and heart failure, including the Captopril-Digoxin Multicenter
trial and the SOLVD trial, which helped establish the importance of ACE inhibitors in
decreasing mortality and morbidity in heart failure. He made enormous contributions to
research on the effects of lipid lowering and inhibiting endogenous deleterious
neurohormones in heart failure, and he contributed over 400 peer-reviewed publications
and numerous textbook chapters, editorials, and abstracts to the world's cardiovascular
literature. His research has profoundly affected the way we view acute coronary
syndromes, chronic heart failure, chronic coronary heart disease, imaging of ischemic
heart disease, and treatment of cardiac arrhythmias.
In addition to his incomparable contributions to clinical cardiology, Dr. Pitt is a
passionate teacher who has lectured to literally tens of thousands of physicians at
extramural programs sponsored by the American Heart Association and the American
College of Cardiology and at numerous national meetings of cardiology professional
societies. His work has had a profound effect on cardiology around the world; few
individuals have had a more significant impact on current day cardiovascular diagnosis
and therapeutics.
The Regents now salute this distinguished health educator for his dedicated
service by naming Bertram Pitt professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Jeoffrey K. Stross, M.D., professor of internal medicine in the Medical School,
retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2005.
Dr. Stross received his B.S. and M.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in
1962 and 1967, respectively, and remained at Michigan for his internship and residency.
He joined the faculty as an instructor in internal medicine in 1973, and was promoted to
assistant professor in 1974, associate professor in 1979, and professor in 1987. From
1974-2001 he had an additional appointment in the Department of Post Graduate
Medicine and Health Professions Education, advancing from assistant professor (1974)
to associate professor (1977) to professor (1988).
An accomplished administrator, Dr. Stross served as associate chair of the patient
education program in the Department of Internal Medicine from 1983-94. In this role, he
helped manage what has become one of the nation's preeminent departments of internal
medicine. He also served on numerous committees, including the Executive Committee
for Clinical Affairs, the University  Hospital Executive Board, the Product
Standardization Committee, and the Bed Utilization Committee. He chaired the
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee and served as associate chief of clinical affairs
for clinical operation. During this time, Dr. Stross also pursued his research in continuing
medical education. His work defining how physicians learn via the so-called
"educationally influential physician" is viewed as one of the seminal contributions in the
field and was published in the leading journals, including The Journal of the American
Medical Association, The New England Journal of Medicine, and the Annals of Internal
Medicine.
Whether on the wards or in the classroom, Dr. Stross was always available, always
willing, and always committed to enhancing the quality of care, the quality of teaching,

84



September Meeting, 2005

and the quality of faculty in the Department of Internal Medicine. Countless medical
students and residents have benefited from his clinical knowledge and skill, as have
countless patients. He will have a lasting influence on the department, its faculty, and
its students.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Jeoffrey K. Stross
professor emeritus of internal medicine.
Dennis F. Turner, D.D.S., clinical professor of dentistry and assistant dean for
patient services in the School of Dentistry, retired from active faculty status on June 30,
2005.
Dr. Turner received his D.D.S. degree from the University of Michigan in 1966
and his M.B.A. degree from The Pennsylvania State University in 1987. He served in
the U.S. Air Force dental corps from 1966-68, worked in private practice from 1968-80,
and was a senior research fellow at The Pennsylvania State University from 1980-82.
He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a clinical instructor in 1982 and was
promoted to adjunct lecturer in 1986, assistant professor in 1988, clinical associate
professor in 1993, and clinical professor in 2002. He was also an assistant research
scientist from 1984-87.
Dr. Turner directed numerous clinical and didactic courses and was director of
preclinical sciences (1988-90) and patient services (1990-91) and assistant dean for
patient services (1991-2005). In these capacities, he designed and implemented the
integrated preclinical science program, the patient/student monitoring system, a
centralized record program, and the new D-3 clinical program, and he directed the
design and implementation of the vertical integrated clinic program for the predoctoral
educational program. An active researcher, he received several grants from the National
Institute of Dental Research. His research has been published in the finest neuroscience
journals, including Brain Research and Journal of Comparative Neurology, and he
authored several chapters in Oral Development and Histology.
Dr. Turner served on a number of school and university committees and on the
Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs. He is a member of numerous
professional organizations, including the American Dental Association, the American
Association for Dental Research, the Academy of General Dentistry, and the American
Dental Education Association, and has held several elected offices in organized
dentistry. He has been instrumental in several public health initiatives and received
awards from both the American Dental Association and the Pennsylvania Department
of Health.
The Regents salute this distinguished health sciences educator by naming Dennis F.
Turner clinical professor emeritus of dentistry.
Charles H. Williams, Jr., Ph.D., professor of biological chemistry in the Medical
School, retired from active faculty status on June 30, 2005.
Professor Williams received his B.S. degree from the University of Maryland in
1956 and his Ph.D. degree from Duke University in 1961. From 1961-63, he pursued
postdoctoral studies at the University of Sheffield, England. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1963 and was promoted to assistant professor in
1966, associate professor in 1970, and professor in 1979. He was appointed a research
chemist at the Ann Arbor Veterans Administration Hospital in 1963 and was promoted
to supervisory research chemist in 1974 and research career scientist in 1978.

85



September Meeting, 2005

Professor Williams' entire career has been dedicated to the study of one family of
flavoenzymes, which are enzymes containing the B-vitamin riboflavin. For the past 12
years, he applied his vast knowledge of this enzyme family to the development of a
much needed new malaria prophylactic. This incredible effort required Professor
Williams to coordinate six laboratories, both in this country and abroad. His work has
resulted in the publication of 107 papers in prestigious peer-reviewed journals.
In addition to his research, Professor Williams taught the biochemistry course for
medical students for thirty years as well as several courses in the graduate program. He
trained twelve graduate students and twenty postdoctoral fellows, many of whom have
gone on to distinguished positions in academia. Professor Williams has served on
numerous advisory groups, including the Research and Development Committee at the
Veterans Affairs Medical Center and the Biomedical Research Council of the Medical
School. He served as coordinator for research at the Veterans Administration Medical
Center from 1977-79. For his outstanding contributions, Professor Williams received
the Distinguished Faculty Achievement Award and the Council's Choice Award for
outstanding contributions to the Inteflex Program.
The Regents now salute this distinguished biochemist for his dedicated service by
naming Charles H. Williams, Jr., professor emeritus of biological chemistry.
Memorials. Vice President Churchill reported the deaths of two active faculty
members, Carol T. Mowbray and Mei-Yu Yu. Regent Maynard commented that she
had known Carol Mowbray, and that she was not only a fine researcher, but was very
committed to working in the community and making a difference.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death of Carol T. Mowbray, professor of social work and associate professor of
psychology. Professor Mowbray died on August 23, 2005, at the age of 57.
A leading researcher on psychosocial rehabilitation, Professor Mowbray earned
her B.S. degree (psychology and mathematics) and her M.S. degree (psychology) from
Tufts University, and her Ph.D. degree in developmental psychology from the
University of Michigan. She joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1994 as
associate professor of social work and was promoted to professor in 2000. From 1996 --2001, she was the associate dean for research at the School of Social Work, and from
2003 until her death, she was co-director of the school's Center for Poverty, Risk, and
Mental Health.
Before joining the University of Michigan faculty, Professor Mowbray was an
associate professor and director of the research office at the Wayne State University
School of Social Work and a clinical professor of ecological/community psychology at
Michigan State University. For nearly a decade earlier in her career, Professor
Mowbray was the director of research and demonstration projects for the Bureau of
Program Development and Quality Assurance at the Michigan Department of Mental
Health. Prior to that, she held several positions as an evaluator for the Michigan
Department of Mental Health.
Professor Mowbray was a prolific author, contributing more than 130 scientific
articles, chapters, and books. The recipient of numerous awards, she was honored most
recently as the 2005 recipient of the American Psychological Association's Harold
Hildreth Award, given annually to a senior professional whose career and
accomplishments embody the highest principles of public service. The U.S. Psychiatric

86



September Meeting, 2005

Rehabilitation Association also recently honored her by renaming its Early Career
Research Award the Carol T. Mowbray Award.
As we mourn the loss of this distinguished researcher, colleague, teacher, and
mentor, our condolences go to her children, Orion and Nickolas Mowbray.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death of Mei-Yu Yu, research associate professor in the School of Nursing, who
died on August 1, 2005, at the age of 61.
Dr. Yu was highly regarded for her work in women's health, cancer screening
promotion, and  international health  promotion  and  for her leadership in
Asian-American communities. In 1996, she founded the Healthy Asian American
Project (HAAP) to improve the overall health status of Asian Americans and to reduce
health disparities through research, education, and promotion. Under her direction,
HAAP became a tremendous success, with funding and support gained from the
Michigan Department of Community Health, the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer
Foundation, Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, and the National Cancer Institute. The
project organized many health promotion and screening events and trained more than
300 lay health advisors and other volunteers to improve access to and utilization of
early cancer screening among Asian Americans. In 2003, Dr. Yu expanded the scope of
HAAP and initiated the International Health Promotion Project to promote the early
detection of breast cancer in China and to link faculty and students at the University of
Michigan with Chinese universities and hospitals. The project funded and organized the
2005 International Symposium on Breast Cancer in Tianjing, China, and sponsored the
training of many Chinese nurses.
Dr. Yu received her M.D. degree from Shanghai First Medical University in
1968 and was a physician in Changsha, China, from 1968-81. She came to the United
States in 1981 to study at the University of Texas at Austin and recieved her Ph.D.
degree in sociology in 1986. After completing her postdoctoral work in 1988, Dr. Yu
joined the University of Michigan faculty, where she introduced numerous research and
teaching projects in the School of Nursing, mentored more than 30 postdoctoral fellows
and graduate and undergraduate students, and received over $2 million in research
grants. She was the author of more than 50 publications, including four book chapters.
Dr. Yu served on the Asian American/Pacific Islander Advisory Council for the Komen
Foundation and as Michigan chair for the National Asian Women's Health
Organization, and was active in numerous other national and local professional and
health awareness organizations.
As we mourn the loss of this distinguished researcher, our condolences go to her
husband, Bo-nan Jiang; her children, Bo and Hao Jing; her son-in-law, Futeh Kao; and
her granddaughters, Camille and Simona Kao.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda. Regent Deitch
left the meeting at this point.

87



September Meeting, 2005

2005-2006 All Campus Budget Book
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the 2005-2006 budget book that
provides details of the budget approved at the July meeting.
The University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year Ended June 30,
2005
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the consolidated financial statements
for fiscal year 2005, as well as separate audited financial statements for the Hospitals
and Health Centers, the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics, Michigan Health
Corporation, M-CARE, and the Veritas Insurance Corporation. He noted that the
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee had reviewed the statements at their meeting,
and they will be submitted for approval at the October meeting.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Westbrook Real Estate Fund, VI, L.P.; Lime Rock
Resources, L.P.; JOG Limited Partnership III; Russia Partners II, L.P.; TDF Capital
China II, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
approved the following investments from the Long Term Portfolio: Commitment of
$20 million to Westbrook Real Estate Fund VI, L.P.; $25 million to Lime Rock
Resources, L.P.; $10 million (Canadian funds) to JOG Limited Partnership III; $15
million to Russia Partners II, L.P.; and $10.0 million to TDF Capital China II, L.P.
Athletic Department Alumni Field Renovation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Athletic Department Alumni Field Renovation Project as
described and authorized commissioning HOK Sport + Venue + Event, Inc. for its
design.
Athletic Department Fisher Stadium Renovation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Athletic Department Fisher Stadium Renovation Project as
described, and authorized commissioning HOK Sport + Venue + Event, Inc. for its
design.
Michigan Stadium 2006 Concrete Repairs
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Michigan Stadium 2006 Concrete Repairs Project as
described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.

88



September Meeting, 2005

Naming of the New Drama Center in honor of Charles R. Walgreen, Jr.
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved designating the new drama center building the Charles R.
Walgreen, Jr. Drama Center.
President Coleman noted that this building will house the Arthur Miller Theatre,
and will be the only facility in the country that will be named in honor of Arthur Miller.
Hoover Avenue Heating Plant Boiler Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Hoover Avenue Heating Plant Boiler Replacement Project as
described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Bursley Residence Hall 2006 Infrastructure Updates and Dining Improvements
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Bursley Residence Hall 2006 Infrastructure Updates and
Dining Improvements Project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Mosher-Jordan Hall Renovation and Hill Dining Center
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that this project will be the first major,
deep renovation of this residence hall, which dates back to 1930. He introduced Mr.
Geoffrey Wooding from Goody Clancy & Associates to present the schematic design.
Mr. Wooding displayed site maps and detailed plans for each level of the structure,
including a cross-section of the building that indicates the security features separating
the residence hall private living space from the public, common areas of the dining
facility. He noted that the dining center would be as transparent and light and
unobtrusive as possible in order to respect the historic architecture of the building it
adjoins. The current loading zone will be relocated to a more unobtrusive spot, and the
current dining hall in Mosher-Jordan would become classroom and seminar spaces. He
displayed several renderings of the new dining center, as well as an architectural model.
Mr. Wooding said that the new dining center is intended to service the "Hill"
residence halls of Stockwell, Mosher-Jordan, Alice Lloyd, and Couzens, but any student
would be allowed to use it. It was noted that the other halls will retain a limited food
service capacity for providing off-hours snacks.
Regent Newman commented that the Regents were told there may be some deed
restrictions on a small portion of the land designated for the Hill Dining Center dating
back to the early 1900s, and asked Vice President Krislov if this is cause for concern.
Vice President Krislov responded that there are some very old deed restrictions in the
original grant dating from around 1910. However, the Office of the General Counsel
has analyzed the documents and the law and has concluded that to the extent that deed
restrictions were originally in place at this proposed site, they have been waived many
decades ago by University use and practice. So the general counsel's office is confident

89



September Meeting, 2005

that there are no deed restrictions that would raise legal concerns about this project at
the proposed location.
Mr. Woody responded to questions from Regent McGowan about aesthetic
considerations regarding the exhaust stack on the new building. He noted that
architects are working with engineers on mechanical and architectural means for
addressing this design challenge. In response to a question from Regent Richner about
operational expenses associated with the new facility, Executive Vice President Slottow
emphasized that significant operational efficiencies will be gained through
consolidating the four major hill dining operations into one facility.
Regent Maynard moved approval of the schematic design for the Mosher-Jordan
Hall Renovation and Hill Dining Center Project as presented at the meeting. Regent
Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Oxford Housing Fire Alarm System Upgrade and Fire Suppression System
Installation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Oxford Housing Fire Alarm System Upgrade and Fire
Suppression System Installation Project as described, and authorized issuing the project
for bids and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) East Ann Arbor
Health Center Geriatric Clinic Renovations
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Geriatric Clinic Renovations Project as described, authorized
commissioning the architectural firm of HarleyEllis for its design, and authorized
issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are
within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital Linear Accelerator Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the UMHHC      University  Hospital Linear Accelerator
Replacement Project as described, authorized commissioning of the architectural firm
of Integrated Design Solutions for its design, and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Medical Science Unit I Anechoic Chamber Relocation Renovations
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Medical Science Unit I Anechoic Chamber Relocation
Project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.

90



September Meeting, 2005

Biomedical Science Research Building Animal Imaging Facility
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Biomedical Science Research Building Animal Imaging
Facility project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes nine conflict of interest
items, each of which requires six votes for approval. It was decided that eight of the
items would be considered as a group, and one involving Athletic Director William C.
Martin would be voted on separately.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the following eight items.
Purchasing Contract with Kaleidoscope Graphic Design
The Regents approved a purchasing contract with Kaleidoscope Graphic Design
for graphic design services for the Rackham Development Office. Because Rose
Anderson, sole owner of Kaleidoscope Graphic Design, is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Rackham Development Office and Kaleidoscope Graphic Design.
2.   The services provided are graphic design services through June 30, 2008, in the
amount of $6,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Ms. Anderson, a University of
Michigan employee, is sole owner of Kaleidoscope Graphic Design.
Payment to Sharon VanRiper
The Regents approved a payment to Sharon VanRiper for a rental house for a
visiting professor. Because Ms. VanRiper is also a University of Michigan employee,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Center for Theoretical Physics and Sharon VanRiper.
2.   The service provided is house rental for 22 nights in the amount of $1,200.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Ms. VanRiper, a University of

91



September Meeting, 2005

employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Opteos,
Inc.
2.   The agreement terms include a total subcontract to the University of $225,000 for the
period September 1, 2005 through August 31, 2006. Since research agreements are
often amended, the agreement includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and
scope. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interests arise from the fact that Drs. Whitaker and Sarabandi,
University of Michigan employees, have an ownership interest in Opteos, Inc.
Option Agreement with ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc.
The Regents approved an option agreement with ElectroDynamic Applications,
Inc., for "A Tip-Less Electron Field Emission Technology using BN Coated Surface and
MEMS Based Gate Structures" (UM       File No. 2988). Because Drs. Brian Gilchrist and
Alec Gallimore, partial owners of ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc., are also University
of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc.
2.   The option terms include giving ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc., a one-year,
exclusive option to negotiate an exclusive license with the right to grant sublicenses.
ElectroDynamic Applications, Inc. will reimburse patent costs during the term of the
agreement and would pay a royalty on sales and reimburse patent costs if the option is
exercised and a license is executed. The University will retain ownership of the
licensed technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interests arise from the fact that Drs. Gilchrist and Gallimore,
University  of Michigan  employees, are partial owners of ElectroDynamic
Applications, Inc. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing of
revenue received by the University, and Dr. Gallimore is not an inventor on the above
referenced invention.
License Agreement with McCreadie Group, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with McCreadie Group, Inc., for
"WebIDS" (UM OTT File No. 3138). Because Mr. Scott McCreadie and Dr. Barbara
McCreadie have an ownership interest in McCreadie Group, Inc. and are also
University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:

92



September Meeting, 2005

1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
McCreadie Group, Inc.
2.   License terms include giving McCreadie Group an exclusive license with the right to
grant sublicenses. McCreadie Group will pay a royalty on sales, and the University
will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to further develop
it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interests arise from the fact that Mr. McCreadie and Dr. McCreadie,
University of Michigan employees, have ownership interest in McCreadie Group, Inc.
Mr. McCreadie has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue
received by the University, and Dr. McCreadie is not an inventor on the technology
being licensed.
Amendment to License Agreement with Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement with Michigan
Critical Care Consultants, Inc., for "Biocatalytic Generation of Nitric Oxide" (UM OTT
File No. 1937pl) and "Multi-Functional Biocompatible Coatings for Intravascular
Devices" (UM OTT File No. 2936). Because Dr. Robert Bartlett has ownership interest
in Michigan Critical Care Consultants and is also a University of Michigan employee,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement will add two technologies to Michigan Critical Care
Consultants' current exclusive right to grant sublicenses. Michigan Critical Care
Consultants will pay a royalty on sales and reimburse patent costs, and the University
will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to further develop
it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Bartlett, a University of Michigan
employee, has ownership interest in Michigan Critical Care Consultants, Inc. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.
Research Agreement with Pipex, Inc.
The Regents approved a research agreement with Pipex, Inc., to assist with the
development     of   antifibrotic  and    anti-inflammatory    studies   of   ammonium
tetrathiomolybdate. Because Dr. George Brewer has ownership interest in Pipex and is
also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of

93



September Meeting, 2005

Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Pipex,
Inc.
2.   Under this agreement, $1,378,500 is anticipated to cover the period June 1, 2005
through May 31, 2008.
Since research agreements are often amended, the agreement includes provisions for
changes in time, amount, and scope. University procedures for approval of these
changes will be followed and additional review by the Medical School Conflict of
Interest Board will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Brewer, a University of Michigan
employee, has ownership interest in Pipex, Inc.
Subcontract Agreement with University Renal Research Education Association
(URREA)
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with University Renal Research
Association (URREA) to provide services for year two of a project funded by a grant
from the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Because Dr. Robert A. Wolfe,
vice-president of biostatistics at URREA, is also a University of Michigan employee,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statue. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
University Renal Research Education Association (URREA).
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The project at the
University is to be conducted over an initial twelve month period at an estimated total
cost of $688,250 including indirect cost at the University's negotiated federal indirect
cost rate.
The agreement contains a provision allowing for amendment by mutual agreement of
the parties. University procedures for approval of changes will be followed, and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Wolfe, a University of Michigan
employee, is vice-president of biostatistics at URREA.
Lease Agreement with William C. Martin
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
approved a lease agreement with William C. Martin for approximately 4,000 square feet
of space located at 555 South Forest Avenue. Because Mr. Martin is also a University
of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statue. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and William
C. Martin.
2.   The service to be provided is the execution of a lease agreement for approximately
4,000 square feet in a building at 555 South Forest Avenue (also known as 1301 South
University Avenue) in Ann Arbor from October 1, 2005 through June 30, 2008. The

94



September Meeting, 2005

monthly rental rate is $3,667 from October 1, 2005 through March 31, 2006, and
$7,333 per month for the remainder of the term. Tenant will be responsible for gas and
electric usage plus janitorial service and for improvements to the space that will not
exceed $50,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Martin, a University of Michigan
employee, is owner of the property being leased.
Revision   of Regents' Bylaw      11.60. The Advisory      Board    on  Intercollegiate
Athletics: Functions
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved revisions to Regents' Bylaw 11.60 to change the appointment
authority for the Intercollegiate Conference of Faculty Representatives from the
Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics to the president, as noted below:
Sec. 11.60. The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics: Functions
The Advisory Board will function as advisor to the director on the program in intercollegiate
athletics. The director will seek and consider the advice of the Advisory Board on all major
financial and policy decisions with respect to the program on intercollegiate athletics.
Upon the request of the Advisory Board, the president will meet with the Advisory Board at
least once in each of the fall and winter semesters.
Subject only to the ultimate authority of the president and the Board of Regents, the Advisory
Board will make, adopt, and enforce the necessary rules and regulations governing all questions
pertaining to the eligibility of players, intercollegiate relations, and membership in associations
of universities and colleges organized for the regulation of athletics.
The Advisory Board president will appoint the University representative in the Intercollegiate
Conference of Faculty Representatives after seeking nominees from the Advisory Board, the
appointment to be approved by the Senate Assembly, and others, and after consultation with the
Advisory Board. Such representative will be a member of the University Senate and, will hold
office for a term of five years and may serve unlimited terms.
The Advisory Board will report all of its official actions, through the president to the Board of
Regents for approval, and will report annually to the University Senate, through the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs. At any time, the Advisory Board may consult with
the University Senate through its advisory committee; and at any time, the Senate Advisory
Committee may request full information on matters within the province of the Advisory Board.
The Advisory Board will at all times receive and consider recommendations from the University
Senate and petitions from the student body.
Public Comments
The Public Comments session began at 4:15 p.m. The Regents heard comments
from the following people on the topic of amending the Regents Bylaws to include a
nondiscrimination statement regarding gender identity or expression: Bruce Frier,
faculty member, Russell Stambaugh, alumnus and director of the American Association
of Sex Educators, Counselors and Therapists, Jaya Kalra, student, Denise Brogan,
student, and Liz Goodnick, student. They heard comments from the following
individuals on the topics indicated: Bonnie Halloran, faculty member and president of
the Lecturers' Employee Organization, on ongoing lecturer concerns about School of
Art and Design policies; Cristina Mezuk, alumna, on School of Art and Design
curriculum changes; Jim Mogensen, citizen, on town-gown relationship updates; James
Shields, citizen, on food service improvement; Alice Ralph, alumna and member of the
Washtenaw County Historic District Commission, on the Gordon Hall Historic District;

95



September Meeting, 2005

and Allie Dakroub, student, on formation of a committee to investigate military
investments in Israel.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:00 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for October 21, 2005.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretary of the University

96



OCTOBER MEETING, 2005

The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
October 21, 2005
The Regents convened at 2:10 p.m. in the Happenings Rooms, Harding Mott
University Center Building, on the campus of the University of Michigan-Flint. Present
were President Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, Newman, Richner,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Vice President Churchill, Interim Provost
Gramlich, Executive Vice President Kelch, Chancellor Little, Vice President May,
Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, and
Vice President Wilbanks. Regent McGowan and Vice Presidents Harper, Krislov, and
Ulaby were absent.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order and thanked Chancellor Mestas
and the Flint Campus community for their warm welcome.
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman noted that during the past week the University had hosted a
number of dignitaries: Bill Gates, of Microsoft Corporation; Paul Rusesabagina, who
saved more than 1200 people from genocide in Rwanda in 1994 and was awarded the
University's 2005 Wallenberg Medal; the soprano, Renee Fleming, who performed
Strauss's "Daphne" at Hill Auditorium; and the actress Joan Copeland and producer
Robert Miller, sister and son, respectively, of alumnus and playwright Arthur Miller,
who attended a ceremony naming the Charles R. Walgreen Drama Center and Arthur
Miller Theatre. She also noted that former vice president Al Gore would be delivering
a lecture on campus on Monday.
President Coleman noted that the Flint Campus is celebrating its "Golden
anniversary", and she commended the campus for its contributions to Genesee County,
the state, and the nation. She noted that the strong bonds with the community that are
the hallmark of the campus would continue under the new strategic plan to be presented
by Chancellor Mestas.
Finally, President Coleman called attention to the plans for the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business that were to be presented that day to the Board. The new facility is
designed to support the action-based learning curriculum that is the hallmark of the
school.
Flint Campus Strategic Plan
Chancellor Mestas welcomed the Regents and executive officers to the campus,
and noted also that a number of leaders from the greater Flint community were in
attendance. He then gave a presentation on the University of Michigan-Flint strategic
plan for 2005-2010, entitled "Engaging Minds, Preparing Leaders." He noted that the
plan sets an enrollment goal of 8,000 students by 2010, which is a challenging goal
given the current enrollment of about 6,300.

97



October Meeting, 2005

Chancellor Mestas presented the campus's mission statement:
"The Flint campus of the University of Michigan is a community of
diverse learners and scholars, where students from this region and beyond
prepare for leadership, achievement, and service through interactive instruction
in the arts, sciences, humanities, and professions. Our mission rests on three
pillars: excellence in teaching, learning, and scholarship; student-centeredness;
and engaged citizenship. Our students become leaders in their fields, in their
professions, and in their communities."
Chancellor Mestas expounded on how the strategic plan will fulfill the campus's
mission. He noted that the campus has been a crucial element in the city of Flint since
its founding, providing hope for the future and vitality to the downtown area.
President Coleman complimented Chancellor Mestas on the Flint Campus'
successful efforts at increasing enrollment.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had met that morning with Erik Lundberg, chief investment officer, to
review the outcomes of the University's investments through June 30, 2005. He
reported that the University Investment Pool currently totals $7 billion.  The
endowment fund portion of that pool exceeds $4.9 billion, and the working capital fund
is nearly $1.5 billion. For the year ending June 30, 2005, the Long Term Portfolio
exceeded the University's custom benchmark (14.1%) and the top quartile of University
endowments (13.6%), having achieved a 19.1% annual return. For three years, the
University achieved nearly 15% annualized return compared to the custom benchmark
of 10.5% and 11.7% for the top quartile of university endowments. The University also
beat other benchmarks in its investment performance. Regent Brandon praised Mr.
Lundberg and his staff for their achievements; and a round of applause followed.
Regent Brandon reported that the committee had also met with Associate Vice
President Peggy Norgren, University Controller Cheryl Soper, and Carol Senneff,
executive director of University Audits regarding progress on implementation of
Sarbanes-Oxley compliant audit procedures. The committee then met with Ms. Senneff
to receive the regular bimonthly internal audit update, and met privately with her to
ensure she is receiving the proper level of institutional commitment and support from
management, and she confirmed that this was the case. Finally, the committee received
the Hospitals and Health Centers quarterly report and learned that the HHC is ahead of
budget for the first quarter. The committee also worked on finalizing its schedule and
work plan for 2006.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee. Regent Taylor reported
that the committee had been updated by the provost and president on all of the ongoing
searches for deans and directors and were updated on the status of the various collective
bargaining agreements that are underway. They were updated by Associate Vice
President Laurita Thomas about the University's new classification initiative. He said
that because the new system represents a huge change in the classification system, it
would be advisable that this topic be presented to the whole board at some point. The

98



October Meeting, 2005

committee received a draft calendar for the remainder of 2005 and calendar year 2006,
and plans to discuss it at the next meeting.
The Regents then turned to the consent agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of September 15, 2005.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Plant Extension Report,
the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report, and the Regents' Report on
Non-competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single Sources, June 16 through
September 15, 2005.
Litigation Report. The Regents received the Litigation Report.
Research Report. The Regents received the report of projects established,
September 1 - August 31, 2005.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Kelch had no
additional report.
Division of Student Affairs. There was no report from the Division of Student
Affairs.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported that construction
of the Greenways Trail has been completed and there would be a formal opening on
October 29, 2005. He said that the trail provides access to the campus on foot or by
bicycle as well as access to nature areas that are not normally accessible. Chancellor
Little also described a recent initiative of the campus's Institute for Local Government,
to provide a training program on hate crime for local elected officials.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas introduced Mr. Tim Herman,
president and CEO of the Genesee Area Focus Council, and Mr. Ridgeway White, who
gave a presentation on economic development activities in downtown Flint.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Jesse Levine, president of MSA, reported
on activities of MSA. He noted that the Ann Arbor City Council had recently created a
new committee, the "University of Michigan Student Assembly-City Council Joint
Committee." The purpose of this committee is to generate ideas that will improve
conditions for students, particularly with respect to off-campus housing. He also
reported that MSA would be contacting over 600 former MSA leaders to develop a
relationship with them as alumni. He then introduced Benjamin Hoffman, president of
the UM-Flint Student Government Council. Mr. Hoffman described recent activities of

99



October Meeting, 2005

Earl B. Abramson, Highland Park, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Knight Aldrich, Charlottesville, Virginia
2,645 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Knight Aldrich Charitable Gift Annuity and for the Michael S. Aldrich Sleep
Medicine in Neurology Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School..................... 123,097
Robert Alpern Trust
898 shares of Commercial Federal Corporation common stock
for support in the Medical School...................................................... 30,478
A. L. S. Association, Calabasas Hills, California
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 11,400
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..................................................... 45,118
American Medical Association Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Medical School.................................................... 10,800
Herbert and Carol Amster Family Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of
Washtenaw, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Endowed Lupus Research Fund and
for the KEC Building Development Fund and other support in the Kellogg Eye Cente
and for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, the Medical School, and the
School of Music................................................................. 27,000
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School...................................................... 12,000
Applied Materials Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering...............................................  60,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School................................................. 58,375
ASPA Pension Education Research Foundation, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................28,000
Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Michigan Foundation, Detroit
for the 2005 McDevitt Excellence in Research Award in the School of Public Health.............. 10,000
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts............................................................  56,250
Henry W. and Marion H. Bloch Foundation, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri
for the Marion H. and Henry W. Bloch Dean's Scholarship Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................. 25,000
Norman R. Bodine, Clinton, Washington
450 shares of United Technologies Corporation common stock
for the Ralph B. Bodine Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 23,094
Boeing Company, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 15,000
Boeing Defense & Space Group, Seattle, Washington
for scholarships in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................... 14,000
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
for the Brehm Center Construction Fund in the Medical School............................... 500,000
M. Lynn Woodruff Brennan, Auburndale, Massachusetts
for the Mary Huntington Woodruff Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......................................................... 20,000
Margaret P. Brinkerhoff, Ann Arbor
for the James F. Brinkerhoff Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business......... 33,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Bristol-Myers Graduate Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 38,000
Britton Family Trust
for the Maxwell E. Britton Endowment Herbarium Scholarship Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................. 67,000
John T. Buck Trust
for the Golf Hole Endowment Fund in the Department of Athletics.......................... 10,000
Bud Van Lines, Somerset, New Jersey
for the Scleroderma Research Fund in the Medical School................................. 10,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School................................................ 113,108
Brian P. Campbell, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School.................................................. 10,000
Annie E. Casey Foundation, Baltimore, Maryland
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................... 50,000

100



October Meeting, 2005

Marilynn J. Cason, Evanston, Illinois
600 shares of DeVry, Inc., common stock
for support in the Law School......................................................... 10,875
Wai-Tsin Chang, Danville, California
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in the College of Engineering........... 100,000
Collins & Aikman Foundation, Troy
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................................... 15,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for WUOM.....................................................................50,000
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for scholarships at the University of Michigan-Flint....................................... 85,245
Conrad Charitable Foundation, Northville
for the Conrad Charitable Foundation Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...... 15,000
George H. Cress, Ann Arbor
300 shares of Keycorp common stock
for the Otto Gago, M.D. Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School................. 10,010
Carolyn L. Crosby, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Carolyn L. Crosby Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
Child and Family Life Fund.......................................................... 50,000
Dance Marathon, Ann Arbor
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital......................................... 135,449
DENSO North America Foundation, Southfield
for research at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................................... 50,000
Directed Energy Professional Society, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for scholarships in the College of Engineering...........................................  10,000
Bill and Molly Dobson Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Mary Hunter Dobson Scholarship Fund in the Center for the Education of Women,
the Comprehensive Cancer Center, the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for the University Musical Society................................................. 10,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research and other support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................. 11,000
Excelda Manufacturing, Brighton
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 10,000
Russell H. Fifield Trust
for support in the Kellogg Eye Center........................................... 100,000
Sara J. Fitzgerald, Falls Church, Virginia
for the Student Publication Building Fund............................................... 25,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for employee matching gifts.............. 16,021
J. L. French Family Foundation, Sheboygan, Wisconsin
for the Jeanna French Nurse Scientist Fund in the School of Nursing, in memory of Jeanna French..... 92,500
J. Alan Galbraith, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Law School......................................................... 10,000
Richard T. Garrett, Cleveland, Ohio
1,543 shares of Kellogg Company common stock for the Holtom-Garrett Family
Professorship in Neurology in the Medical School......................................... 70,507
Joseph M. Geisinger Trust
for the Joseph M. Geisinger Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering..................... 720,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 27,281
Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation, Midland
for the Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation Fellowship Fund in the Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy and for the Rollin M. Gerstacker Foundation Fund in the
College of Engineering............................................................. 500,000
Hilda F. Hamburger Trust
for the Hilda and Joel Hamburger M.D. Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.................. 35,000
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Avon, Connecticut
for the Study Abroad Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 18,000
David Handleman, Bloomfield Hills
3,600 shares of Handleman Company common stock
for research in the Medical School................................................... 50,220
Leroy and Eleanor Harvey Living Trust
for the Frank C. and Margaret T. Gates Student Endowment Fund in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................ 43,788
Heatcraft, Grenada, Mississippi
for research in the College of Engineering.............................................. 10,000
Shirley and Barnett Helzberg Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................... 25,000

101



October Meeting, 2005

William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the School of Education............................................. 345,000
Hewlett-Packard Company, Palo Alto, California
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts.........41,328
James B. Hudak, Orinda, California
for research in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................................  10,000
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for support in  the  School of M usic.......................................................  10,000
Japan Medical Materials Corporation, Osaka, Japan
for the Hom-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry...............29,985
Lloyd and Mabel Johnson Foundation, Brighton
for research  in the  College  of Engineering................................................. 15,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the School of Public Health and the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..........194,655
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research  in  the  M edical School....................................................... 82,101
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research and scholarships in the School of Dentistry and the College of Literature,
Science,  and  the  A rts..................................................................51,500
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research and other support in the Schools of Education, Public Health, and Social Work..........389,318
Stephen Kemp, Whitmore Lake
for the Robert and Evelyn Kemp Fund in the College of Engineering............................ 10,000
Ernest 0. Kirkendall Trust
for support in  the  College  of Engineering.................................................. 25,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the  Child  and  Family  Life  Fund......................................................  14,852
Bonnie and Al Koch Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the Department of Athletics................................................. 10,000
A. Rama Krishna, Greenwich, Connecticut
275 shares of Cavco Industries, Inc., common stock
for the Tomoko Shoji Krishna Summer Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature
Science, and the Arts..........................................................10,014
Lannan Foundation, Santa Fe, New Mexico
for the  M useum   for Arts...............................................................20,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for Michigan Journalism Fellows Program in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.... 40,625
Patricia Y. Lowrey, Grand Junction, Colorado
378 shares of Ametek, Inc., common stock
for support in the Center for the Education of Women and for the
George H. Lowrey M.D. Pediatric Endocrinology Fund in the Medical School.................... 15,121
John and Pat Lunden Gift Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.............................................  50,000
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens, and  W UOM......................................................... 26,555
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
3,500 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kelsey  Museum  Expansion  Project................................................ 259,073
Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and the Medical School...................53,000
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research  in the  School of Information..................................................  15,000
Stuart A. Miller Family Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for the  Stuart A. M iller Fund........................................................... 100,000
Mitchell and Diane Mondry Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation
of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Mitchell A. Mondry Entrepreneurial Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business................................................................ 10,000
Patricia P. Morrissey, Richland
for the Vaughn Morrissey M.D. and Leona Morrissey R.N. Scholarship Fund
at the University of Michigan-Flint.................................................... 10,000
Evelyn M. Murray Estate
for the Evelyn Murray Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................100,000
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Law School........................................................ 25,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Great Neck, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 30,000

102



October Meeting, 2005

Nobel Biocare USA, LLC, Yorba Linda, California
forsupportinthe School ofDentistry............................................. 52,500
North Shore University of Michigan Alumni Club, Wilmette, Illinois
for scholarships in the School of Education........................................... 22,995
Edward C. Olson, Fort Myers, Florida
2,000 shares of National City Corporation common stock
for the Edward C. and Joan M. Olson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate
benefitofthe College ofLiterature, Science, andtheArts...................................73,370
Omenn-Darling Family Advised Fund of the Seattle Foundation Trust Fund, Seattle, Washington
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre in the School of Music................... 10,000
Todd Ouida Children's Foundation of the Community Foundation of New Jersey,
River Edge, New Jersey
for support intheMedical School...................................................... 10,000
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 18,487
Polk Brothers Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Michigan in Washington Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the Sadye Harwick Power Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 28,600
Pryor Foundation, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania
for the Millard H. Pryor, Jr., Global Scholars Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, andtheArts............................................25,000
John A. Pursley, Lock Haven, Pennsylvania
for the John Ardell Pursley Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
John Ardell Pursley Scholarship in the Chemical Engineering in the College of Engineering......... 10,000
Redlich Horwitz Foundation, Saddle River, New Jersey
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 30,000
Retina Research Foundation, Houston, Texas
forresearch inthe Medical School...................................................... 22,500
James E. Richards, Ann Arbor
for the James W. and Helen Marie Richards Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate
benefit of the James W. Richards Scholarship Endowment Fund in the College of Pharmacy......... 25,000
Thomas Safran and Associates, Los Angeles, California
for the Thomas Safran Family Endowment Fund............................................ 25,000
Charles F. Sawyer, Maple Plain, Minnesota
for the Thomas M. Sawyer, Jr. Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 18,750
Sally W. Sawyer, Carmel Valley, California
for the Thomas M. Sawyer, Jr. Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 18,750
Susan C. Sawyer, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Thomas M. Sawyer, Jr. Fund in the College of Engineering.......................... 18,750
Priscilla A. Schwartz Living Trust
for the Priscilla A. Schwartz Scholarship Fund in the School of Nursing........................ 250,000
Robert D. Scott, Mason, Ohio
for the Robert D. Scott Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering......................... 25,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 45,000
Herbert E. Sloan, Ann Arbor
for the Herbert E. Sloan Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens and the Nichols Arboretum........................................ 25,000
David H. Smith, Irvine, California
forsupportinthe College ofEngineering................................................ 25,000
Raymond C. Smith Foundation Endowment Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan............................................ 50,171
Susan M. Smith Trust
for the Margaret Waterman Endowed Scholarship Fund...................................... 10,000
Henry Smithies, Greenville, Delaware
4,000 shares of E.I. DuPont deNemours & Company common stock and a cash gift
for the Henry and Barbara Fenker Smithies Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit
of the College of Engineering and for support for the School of Music....................... 154,500
Gladys D. Stark Trust
for the Gladys D. and Walter R. Stark Graduate Fellowship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business and for the Stark Dean's Merit Scholarship Fund in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................... 61,097
Sterling Bank & Trust, Southfield
for the Real Estate Fellowship in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning..............................................................        0,645
Subramanian Sundaresh, Cupertino, California
for the Parker Scholar's Program in the College of Engineering............................. 10,000

103



October Meeting, 2005

Mayumi Taniguchi, McLean, Virginia
for the Mayumi Taniguchi Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
School  of Inform ation................................................................. 10,000
TECO-Westinghouse Motor Company, Round Rock, Texas
for research  at the University  of Michigan-Dearborn......................................... 16,192
Robert M. and Elizabeth C. Teeter Fund of the Schwab Fund for Charitable Giving,
San Francisco, California
for the Robert and Elizabeth Teeter Bladder Cancer Research Fund in the Medical
School, in  memory  of Robert Teeter..................................................... 100,000
Lorna L. Thomas, Detroit
for the Fitzbutler Jones Society Scholarship Fund and the Lorna L. Thomas M.D.
Endowed  Fund  in the  M edical School....................................................  20,250
Claire Lenz Turcotte, Ann Arbor
2,443 units of Janus mutual fund for the Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professorship in
Transplantation  in  the  M edical School....................................................  61,295
University of Michigan Club of New York Scholarship Fund, Inc., New York, New York
575 shares of Gabelli Equity preferred stock
for scholarships at the University  of Michigan.............................................. 14,746
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, Saint Joseph
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Clements Library............................ 10,500
Titus Van Haitsma Estate
19,554 units of various mutual funds and a cash gift
for the Titus Van Haitsma Dental Student Scholarship in the School of Dentistry................. 206,455
James S. VanPelt, Naples, Florida
170 shares of BP PLC common stock
for support in the  Department of Athletics.................................................  12,193
Laura R. Van Vlack-Ailes, Portage
14,204 units of Fifth Third Bank Proprietary mutual fund for the Laura R. Van Vlack-Ailes
Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  A rts........................................................................  220,564
Washtenaw Home Builders Association, Ann Arbor
for support of the Derby Challenge in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 39,327
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for research and other support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment
and the Gerald R. Ford  School of Public Policy............................................. 54,500
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for the Whitaker Foundation Student Fellowship in the College of Engineering.................... 80,000
Warren P. Williamson III Fund of the Williamson Family Foundation, Canfield, Ohio
for the Warren P. Williamson III Entrepreneurial Education Fund in the Stephen M. Ross
School  of Business................................................................... 50,000
Charles Wilson and Frances Petrocelli Charitable Fund of the Fidelity Investments
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Julian T. Hoff M.D. Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School..................10,000
Lee P. Wontroski, Dunmore, Pennsylvania
for the Thomas M. Sawyer, Jr. Fund in the College of Engineering............................. 20,000
Marian E. Wright Trust
667 shares of Archer-Daniels-Midland Company common stock
for the  University  of M ichigan-Flint...................................................... 14,300
William A. and Shirley P. Yolles Support Foundation of the United Jewish Foundation,
Bloomfield Hills
for the William A. and Shirley P. Yolles Graduate Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School
of  G raduate  Studies................................................................... 10,0 00

104



October Meeting, 2005

Additional gifts ranging from $5,000
following donors:
ABN AMRO Services Company, Chicago, Illinois
Ellen Shaw Agress, Scarborough, New York
Allegiance Home Health Care, Inc., Sterling Heights
Marjorie Alpern Trust
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education,
Rockville, Maryland
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
Doris Applebaum, Oak Park
Arvesta Corporation, San Francisco, California
Robert E. Baker, Bloomfield Hills
Margaret E. Barr Bigelow, British Columbia, Canada
James W. Beatty, Indianapolis, Indiana
Jack L. Berman, Los Angles, California
Bruce P. Bickner, Sycamore, Illinois
Thomas E. Bliska, Jr., Mill Valley, California
Joseph G. Bonnell, Royal Oak
Marion S. Boyd, Jr., 2002 Living Trust
Briarwood Mall, Arlington, Virginia
R. Foster Campbell Estate
CFI Group, Ann Arbor
Markham S. Cheever, Tequesta, Florida
Clark Hill, Detroit
Com-Corp Industries, Cleveland, Ohio
Lucile B. Conger Alumnae Group Ann Arbor, Ann
Arbor
Peter G. Corriveau, Farmington
Robert J. Currie, The Woodlands, Texas
George R. DeMuth, Ann Arbor
Stephen E. Doran, Omaha, Nebraska
Clyne W. Durst, Jr., Adrian
Dykema Gossett PLLC, Detroit
Edward S. Evans III, Grosse Pointe Farms
Furth Family Foundation, Healdsburg, California
Russell J. Gibb, Dearborn
Roger A. Goldman Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish
Communal Fund, New York, New York
Shirley Woodcock Gottschalk, La Canada, California
Great Lakes Performing Artist Association, Ann Arbor
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, PLC, Troy
Jonathan L. Holzaepfel, New Castle, New Hampshire

to $9,999 in value were received from the
Rebecca S. Horvath, Ann Arbor
Deborah C. Howell, Glen Echo, Maryland
JDW II Capital Limited Partnership, Naples, Florida
Donna G. Lachniet Trust
John E. Laird, Ann Arbor
Jeffrey N. Lutz, Grosse Pointe Farms
Lyle Foundation, New York, New York
Lyondell Petrochemical Company, Houston, Texas
Robert V. Martelli, Bloomfield Hills
MGI Pharma, Inc., Bloomington, Minnesota
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Company, Saint
Paul, Minnesota
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, Jersey City,
New Jersey
Richard D. O'Conner, Bloomfield Hills
PBG Michigan, LLC, Troy
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
Murray and Ina Pitt Charitable Trust
Public Sector Consultants, Inc., Lansing
Michael B. Raizman, Wellesley, Massachusetts
Rosen 1996 Family Trust
Shirley K. Schlafer Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
David M. Schraver, Rochester, New York
Edward R. Schulak, Birmingham
Jeffrey R. Smith, Chicago, Illinois
Survey Sciences Group, LLC, Ann Arbor
Mahmood Tayari, Somerville, Massachusetts
Ten Thousand Villages of Huron Valley, Ann Arbor
Jury Foundation, Saginaw
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett, LLP, Grand
Rapids
Sandy Ting-Shung Vong, Ann Arbor
University of Michigan Club of San Diego, San Diego,
California
Margaret Wateman Alumnae Group, Ann Arbor
Maria L. Welborne, Strongville, Ohio
James L. Wolohan, Saginaw
Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Philadelphian, Pennsylvania
Gerald B. Zelenock, Ann Arbor

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Living Data Technology Corporation, Brooklyn, New York
fifty percent of a mobile external counter pulsation system model AngioNew for the Medical School
Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
3M products for fabrication, assembly and worker safety for the Michigan Solar House
Personnel Actions/Personnel Reports. Interim Provost Gramlich submitted a
number of personnel actions and personnel reports.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Kretzler, Matthias, M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 1, 2005
Talpaz, Moshe, M.D., Professor Internal Medicine, Medical School, February 1, 2006

105



October Meeting, 2005

NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Bohnen, Nicolaas I. L. J., M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Radiology and Associate Professor of
Neurology, Medical School, October 21, 2005
Ritsema, Jeroen, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, September 1, 2005, and Henry
Pollack Endowed Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Brown, Linda Ellis, Assistant Vice Chancellor for Enrollment Management and Registrar, UM-Dearborn,
November 1, 2005-October 31, 2008
Diana, James S., Associate Dean, School of Natural Resources and Environment, July 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Studlar, Gaylyn, Rudolf Arnheim Collegiate Professor of Film Studies, Professor of English Language
and Literature, with tenure, Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Music, without tenure, School of Music, also appointed
Professor of Screen Arts and Cultures, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005
Wineman, Alan S., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Professor Macromolecular
Science and Engineering, without tenure, also appointed Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
without tenure, College of Engineering, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Renaming Existing Collegiate Professorships
D.R. Shackleton Bailey Collegiate Professorship in Greek and Latin, corrected name of D.R. Shackleton
College Professorship in Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, October 1,
2005
Charles Tilly Collegiate Professorship in Social and Political History, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2005
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Reappointment to Collegiate Professorship
Owyang, Chung H., Marvin Pollard Collegiate Professor of Gastroenterology, Medical School,
December 1, 2005-August 31, 2010
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Hobson, Marian, Norman Freehling Visiting Professor, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-May 31, 2006
Morrison, Sean J., Henry Sewall Professor of Medicine, Medical School, October 1, 2005-August 31,
2010
Sowers, MaryFran R., John G. Searle Professor of Public Health, School of Public Health, November 1,
2005
Reappointments to an Endowed Professorships
Fantone, Joseph C., III, Godfrey D. Stobbe Professor of Pathology Education, Medical School, July 1,
2005-August 31, 2010

106



October Meeting, 2005

Lichter, Allen S., Newman Family Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, October 1,
2005-August 31, 2010
Weiss, Stephen J., E. Gifford and Love Barnett Upjohn Professor of Internal Medicine and Oncology,
Medical School, November 15, 2005-August 31, 2010
Other Transactions
Mistretta, Charlotte M., Associate Dean for Research and Ph.D. Training, School of Dentistry, November
1, 2005-October 31, 2010
Raskin, Lutgarde, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, with tenure, correction to spelling
of name (previously spelled as "Raskin, Lutegarde")
Rowan, Brian P., Associate Dean for Research, School of Education, September 1, 2005-August 31,
2008
Silver, Edward A., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Education, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2008
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective October 1, 2005-September 30, 2006, unless otherwise noted
Clements Library Associates Board of Governors
Axe, John R., reappointment, retroactive
Booth, John L., II, reappointment, retroactive
Christie, Judith K., new appointment, retroactive
Dance, William H., reappointment, retroactive
Diedrich, Duane N., reappointment, retroactive
Dufek, Candace, reappointment, retroactive
Dziuszko, Thomas M., reappointment, retroactive
Earle, William G., reappointment, retroactive
Eisendrath, Charles R., reappointment, retroactive
Erwin, Elizabeth C., reappointment, retroactive
Finkenstaedt, William C., Jr., reappointment, retroactive
Fox, John L., reappointment, retroactive
Ganson, Paul, new appointment, retroactive
Goss, James, reappointment, retroactive
Heydon, Peter N., reappointment, retroactive
Hook, Keith B., reappointment, retroactive
Hudson, Joseph L., IV, new appointment, retroactive
Irwin, James R., reappointment, retroactive
Kennedy, Sally, reappointment, retroactive
Kingsley, Thomas, reappointment, retroactive
Klancnik, James M., reappointment, retroactive
Knoertzer, Joan, new appointment, retroactive
Liebman, Thomas C., reappointment, retroactive
Lowenhaupt, Charles, reappointment, retroactive
Mason, Philip P., reappointment, retroactive
Massie, Larry, new appointment, retroactive
Mueller, Janet, reappointment, retroactive
Peslar, Drew, reappointment, retroactive
Price, Jacob M., reappointment, retroactive
Schoff, Joanna, reappointment, retroactive
Schoonhoven, Anne Marie, reappointment, retroactive
Seger, Martha R., reappointment, retroactive
Shapiro, Harold T., reappointment, retroactive
Shy, Arlene P., reappointment, retroactive
Taylor, Anna Diggs, reappointment, retroactive
Thompson, Bradley L., II, reappointment, retroactive
Turcotte, Jeremiah, new appointment, retroactive
Upton, Benjamin, reappointment, retroactive
Walters, David B., reappointment, retroactive
Wheeler, John D., reappointment, retroactive
Winkelman, Margaret W., reappointment, retroactive
Wolf, Clarence, reappointment, retroactive

107



October Meeting, 2005

Committee on Honorary Degrees
Moffet, Alexandra J. (graduate student), retroactive, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007, vice Steven H. Collins,
term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Atreya, Arvind, retroactive, October 1, 2005-August 31, 2007, vice Alec D. Gallimore, serving as
Associate Dean in Rackham
School of Education Executive Committee
Fishman, Barry J., retroactive, September 1, 2005-June 30, 2007, vice C. Addison Stone, serving as
Program Chair for Educational Studies Program
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Agier, Michael, Doctor, Lecturer I in Center for Afro-American and African Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-October 31, 2005
Anderson, Bjom P., M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Anspach, Robyn M., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Bakopoulos, Natalie H., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Bayraktar, Elissa J. B., Master, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Beyer, Ann L., M.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Black, John C., M.A., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Dearbom School of Education, September
1-December 31, 2005
Boswell, Bradley K., M.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 2005
Boulay, Charlotte, A., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Brooks, Myrtle A., M.B.A., Lecturer I in Management Studies, UM-Dearbom School of Management,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Cameron, Frank, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Campbell, Carolyn, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Canal, Maria N., B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Carugati, Giuliana, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Cleary, Kristin M., J.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Cole, Arthur L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2005-April 30, 2006
Collin, Claudia R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor Emerita of Education and Intermittent Lecturer in
Education, UM-Dearbom School of Education, September 1-December 31, 2005
Comick, Monica C., M.A., Lecturer I in Mathematics, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Costa Curras, Diogenes, B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Cross, Elizabeth, R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Davidow, Robert P., J.S.D., Lecturer I in Political Science, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
DeBruin-Parecki, Andrea, Doc., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Devos, Mariela, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Ding, lan, M.M., Lecturer I in Music, School of Music, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006

108



October Meeting, 2005

Disbrow, Jonathan J., M.Arch., Lecturer I in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Donia, Robert J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 2005
Douglas, Clifford E., J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Health Management and Policy, School of Public
Health, September 1-December 31, 2005
Dubowy, Norbert O., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Music, School of Music, September 1, 2005-April
30, 2006
Durgin, Patrick F., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Ellis, Steven J. R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Farooqui, Fauzia, Doctorate, Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Ferguson, Thomas W., B.A., Lecturer I in Humanities, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Ferrera, Ricardo, B.A., Lecturer I in Spanish, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 2005
Fisher, Anne O., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Gill, Pinderjeet K., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Gillespie, Thomas D., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering, September
1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Greene, Jill, M.F.A., Lecturer I in Art and Design, School of Art and Design, September 1-December 31,
2005
Haley, Janet E., M.F.A., Lecturer III in Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Harris, James, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education, September
1-December 31, 2005
Hess, Richard, M.Arch., Lecturer I in Program in Film and Video Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Hieftje, John, B.S., Lecturer I in Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, September
1-December 31, 2005
Hochstetler, Scott M., M.M., Lecturer I in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Howard, Margaret M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Irwin, Stephanie, M.A., Lecturer I in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Khalfan, Waheeda, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Khoury, Leyre Alegre, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Kim, JungHee, M.A., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Klyn, Daniel B., MILS, Lecturer I in Information, School of Information, September 1-December 31,
2005
Lee, Derek P., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Ling, Richard S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Lloret Marin, Gonzalo, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
London, Edward D., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Business, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Lookliss, Lori A., J.D., Lecturer I in Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Lyle, Jennifer B., M.S.W., Intermittent Lecturer in Social Work, School of Social Work, September
1-December 31, 2005
Maccini, Sharon L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Maigret, Jennifer L., M.S., Lecturer I in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1-December 31, 2005

109



October Meeting, 2005

Maithrimurthi, Mudagamuwe, D. Phil., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Maret, Sylvie, Master, Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Martin, Eric D., M.A., Lecturer I in Social Sciences, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Martinsson, Britt-Marie I., M.S., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Martis, Susan M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Humanities, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Mazzolini, Sara A., M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
McCarron, Cheryl, M.A., Lecturer I in Management, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies,
September 1-December 31, 2005
McDonald, George M., B.A., Lecturer I in Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
McKinley, Michael E., M.A., Lecturer I in Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Meyers, Jason R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Moore, MacDonald S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Program in American Culture, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Nakajima, Daisuke, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Noble, Vanessa, Ph.D., Lecturer I in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 2005
Noemi, Daniel, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Okudera, Fumie, M.A., Lecturer I in Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Olds, Patricia M., M.A., Lecturer in Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education, September
1-December 31, 2005
Packer, Matthew J., M.M., Lecturer I in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Pauletto, Franco, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Paveglio, Leo G., M.A., Lecturer I in Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Phelan, Owen M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2005-April 30, 2006
Procopio, Mary J., Doctor, Lecturer I in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Purpura, Allyson, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Quinn, Kelly A., M.A., Lecturer I in Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, and Lecturer I in Center for Afro-American and African Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Radice, Joshua J., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Rama, Rashmi, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Ramos, Cuitlahuac, J.D., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Reeves, Daniel M., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College
of Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2005
Regan, David, B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in Marketing, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September
1-December 31, 2005
Robertson, Katrin O., M.A., Lecturer I in Education, School of Education, September 1-December 31,
2005
Robins, Daniel, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 2005
Rose, Haywood A., M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Sabbagh, Hani R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Near Eastern Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005

110



October Meeting, 2005

Savage, Ralph M., M.A., Lecturer I in Natural Sciences, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Schteingart, Martha R., M.S., Lecturer I in Architecture and Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1-December 31, 2005
Schueler, Kirk R., M.B.A., Lecturer I in Management, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, September 1-December 31, 2005
Schwartz, James Z., Ph.D., Lecturer I in History, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Shelly, Michael, Ed.D., Lecturer I in Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearbom College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Sitomer, Joan C., J.D., Lecturer I in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Smith, Jack E., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Human Resources, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, September 1-December 31, 2005
Spencer, Bryan, M.H.S.A., Lecturer I in Health Care, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, September 1-December 31, 2005
Spring, Suzanne B., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Sullivan, Lorrel L., M.A., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 2005
Sykes, Phyllis D., M.A., Lecturer I in Communication and Visual Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, September 1-December 31, 2005
Talpos, Sara, M.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Torres, Lourdes, Doc., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
von Daniels, Detlef, M.A., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Ward, Jesmyn A., M.F.A., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Wilcox, Glen S., M.Arch., Lecturer III in Architecture and Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Willis, Deborah A., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Social Work, School of Social Work, September
1-December 31, 2005
Wright, Jason M., M.F.A., Lecturer I in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Zeil, Camille A., B.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Zeller, Patrik A., Master, Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
CORRECTIONS TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE
ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Beatty, Richard W., Lecturer II in Human Resource Management, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006, previously reported as Intermittent Lecturer in Human
Resource Management
Beltz, Jess C., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006, previously reported as Lecturer I in Business Administration
McGill, Anthony D., Ph.D., Lecturer III In Communications, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006, previously reported as Lecturer in Communications
Monoky, John F., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Marketing, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006, previously reported as Intermittent Lecturer in Marketing
Pawlik, Lisa A., M.B.A., Lecturer I in Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006, previously reported as Intermittent Lecturer in Business
Administration
Price, James D., M.B.A., Lecturer II in Business, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006, previously reported as Intermittent Lecturer in Business
Sendelbach, Neil B., Ph.D., Lecturer II in Executive Education, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006, previously reported as Intermittent Lecturer in Executive
Education

111



October Meeting, 2005

ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE
ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Jensen, Viviane C., Lecturer IV in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
child care leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Ridley, Arthur S., Jr., Lecturer IV in Theatre, School of Music, personal leave, August 8-October 31,
2005
Sax, Greg M., Lecturer II in Philosophy, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal leave,
May 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adamic, Lada A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2008
Arya, Avinash C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Boss, Nathan C., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, September 12, 2005-September
11,2006
Boynton, James R., D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2008
Branden, Petter J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Branford, Greta L., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine and Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics
and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, September 13, 2005-September 12, 2007
Brunvand, Stein, M.A., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, September 1, 2005-April
30, 2008
Buckingham, Robert J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
Burgard, Sarah A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Chow, Tzee K., Ph.D., Instructor in Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Costantini, Giovanna, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Art, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Dunbar, Lada K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Egami, Masahiko, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Elliot, Michael R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2008
Esesoglu, Selim, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Forger, Daniel B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Frame, David G., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, September
6, 2005-August 31, 2008
George, Andrew M., D.M.A., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2005-May
31, 2009
Giardino, Nicholas, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August
31, 2006
Gomez, Martha V., D.D.S., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1, 2005-June
3, 2006
Grigorov, Grigor, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Hemphill, Thomas A., M.B.A., Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Herscher, Andrew H., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2009

112



October Meeting, 2005

Ilechukwu, Sunday T.C., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, January 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Kaplan, Mark, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 6,
2005-September 5, 2006
Kaufman, Jacqueline N., Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, September 13, 2005-September 12, 2006
Keefer, Laura R., M.A., Instructor in Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education, September 1,
2005-April 30, 2008
Kim, Taehyung, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, UM-Dearborn
College of Engineering and Computer Science, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2007
Kollar, Richard, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Kosnoski, Jason, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Krishnamurthy, Venkataramu N., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School,
September 15, 2005-September 14, 2006
Lee, Jamie S., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Leveque, Thellea K., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical
School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Lewis, Brian R., M.M., Clinical Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, September 1, 2005-May
31, 2007
Li, Peijun, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Lu, Wei, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Ludkovski, Michael L., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Maggio, Paul M., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Masatlioglu, Yusuf C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Meeker, John D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Moeller, Mauricio S., D.D.S., Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 1,
2005-June 30, 2006
Monk, Christopher S., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Murshed, Feisal, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Niedner, Matthew F., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Ogilvie, Jennifer P., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Omoike, Anselm I., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Park, Jinyoung, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management, September
1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Phillips, Kristine, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2007
Ramchandren, Sindhu, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Sami, Rahul, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information, September 1, 2005-May
31, 2008
Seo, Joanne M., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Classical Studies and Assistant Professor of Comparative
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Silverman, Kathleen A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2008
Skar, Lowell D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Spradlin, Marcus B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Stoev, Stilian A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008

113



October Meeting, 2005

Tyszkowski, Kristen, M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine and Clinical Assistant
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2008
von Stein, Jana K., M.A., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Weizer, Jennifer S., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical
School, August 15, 2005-August 14, 2007
Zollner, Sebastian K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2008
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS,
OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Kipke, Daryl R., from Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, to Associate Professor
of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, September 1, 2005
Laverty, William W., from Lecturer III in Political Science to Assistant Professor of Political Science,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Lumeng, Julie C., from Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Assistant
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August
31, 2006
McCullumsmith, Robert E., from Clinical Lecturer in Psychiatry to Assistant Professor of Psychiatry,
Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Wittkopp, Patricia J., from Assistant Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology to Assistant
Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Assistant Professor of Molecular, Cellular,
and Developmental Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May
31, 2008
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Cameron, George D., III, Professor Emeritus of Business Law, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Chesler, Mark, Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September
1-December 31, 2005
Crowfoot, James E., Professor Emeritus of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional Planning, School
of Natural Resources and Environment, and Professor Emeritus of Environment, Program in
Environment, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Das, Sunil K., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1-October 31, 2005
Fortner, Richard W., Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Flint School of Management, September
1-December 31, 2005
Gosling, L. A. Peter, Professor Emeritus of Southeast Asian Studies, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Graves, Helen M., Associate Professor Emerita of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Gray, Robert H., Professor Emeritus of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Gurin, Patricia Y., Nancy Cantor Distinguished University Professor Emerita of Psychology and
Women's Studies, and Professor Emerita of Psychology and Women's Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Haddad, George I., Robert J. Hiller Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
and Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Henley, Keith S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August
31, 2006
Hiss, Roland G., Professor Emeritus of Medical Education and Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine,
Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Kammash, Terry, Stephen S. Attwood Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus of Nuclear
Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College of Engineering, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Livermore, Shaw, Jr., Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Lockery, Shirley A., Professor Emerita of Social Work, School of Social Work, January 1-May 31, 2006
Mann, Richard D., Professor Emeritus of Psychology and Professor Emeritus of Religion, Studies in
Religion, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006

114



October Meeting, 2005

Margolis, Philip M., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31,
2006
Oakley, Deborah J., Professor Emerita of Nursing, School of Nursing, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Pollock, Stephen M., Herrick Professor Emeritus of Manufacturing and Professor Emeritus of Industrial
Operations Engineering, College of Engineering, September 1-December 31, 2005
Singer, J. David, Professor Emeritus of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Solomon, William R., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 1,
2005-September 30, 2006
Stem, Robert M., Professor Emeritus of Economics, Department of Economics, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor Emeritus of Public Policy, Gerald R. Ford School of Public
Policy, January 1-December 31, 2006
Teorey, Toby J., Professor Emeritus of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Whitehouse, Frank, Jr., Associate Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical
School, September 1-December 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ballou, David P., Professor of Biological Chemistry, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2005-February 28, 2006
Bowers, Jacob W., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Cody, Robert J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, personal leave, September
26, 2005-September 30, 2006
Countryman, Matthew J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
American Studies, American Culture Program, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Finseth, lan F., Assistant Professor of English, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
personal leave, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Forger, Daniel B., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
research leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Gitelman, Zvi Y., Preston R. Tisch Professor of Judaic Studies, and Professor of Political Science, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31,
2005
Gunning, Sandra R., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, Associate
Professor of American Studies, American Culture Program, without tenure, and Associate
Professor of Afro-American and African Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2005, and sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2006
Hancock, David J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, research leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Hernandez, Ramiro J., Professor of Radioloy, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, March
1-May 31, 2005
Hunt, Alan J., Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Kampfner, Roberto R., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Sciences, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, September 1,
2005-April 30, 2006
Lau, Yue Y., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Marder, Wendy E., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, extended sick leave, July 26-September 19,
2005
McGrath, Marianne P., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Mirel, Jeffrey E., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, and Professor of History,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September 1, 2005-May
31, 2006
Nori, Franco M., Professor of Physics, with tenure, research leave, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Rosenthal, Amnon, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School,
retirement furlough, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006

115



October Meeting, 2005

Tedesco, Lisa A., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, sabbatical leave, School of Dentistry, August 1,
2005-January 31, 2006
Walter, Nils G., Dow Coming Associate Professor of Chemistry and Associate Professor of Chemistry,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December
31, 2005
Weinstein, Jamie S., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, personal leave, August
5-September 18, 2005
CANCELLATIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Algase, Donna L., Josephine Sana Collegiate Professor of Nursing, and Professor of Nursing, with tenure,
School of Nursing, cancellation of previously reported sabbatical leave effective September
1-December 31, 2005
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Abdu, Hasina M., Assistant Professor of Computer and Information Science, UM-Dearbor College of
Engineering, April 30, 2005
Alpine, Keith D., Clinical Associate Professor of Dentistry, Dental School, August 23, 2005
Cazan-London, Kevin, Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, September 30,
2005
Goward, Russell A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2005
Grewing, Farouk F., Assistant Professor of Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, May 31, 2005
Harwood, Ronna B., Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2005
Lee-Chopra, Cathy C., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 31, 2005
Miller, Dennis A., Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, June 30, 2005
Ning, Qiang, Assistant Professor of History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2005
Ware, Robert, Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management, May 31, 2005
Retired
Kotowicz, William E., Roy H. Roberts Professor of Dentistry and Professor of Dentistry, with tenure,
School of Dentistry, August 31, 2005
Thomas, Eva J., Lecturer in Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, August 31,
2005
Term Completed
Choi, Wooyoung, Assistant Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, College of
Engineering, August 31, 2005
McLean, Scott A., Clinical Lecturer in Otorhinolaryngology, Medical School, June 30, 2005
Onninen, Jani K., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2005
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 3 retiring
faculty members.
Fred L. Bookstein, Ph.D., distinguished senior research scientist in the Institute
of Gerontology, research professor in the Biophysics Research Division, research
professor in biostatistics in the School of Public Health, and adjunct professor in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on July
31, 2005.
Professor Bookstein received his B.S. degree from the University of Michigan in
1966, his M.S. degree from Harvard University in 1971, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1977. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
assistant research scientist in 1977 and was promoted to associate research scientist in
1980, research scientist in 1984, distinguished research scientist in 1989, and

116



October Meeting, 2005

distinguished senior research scientist in 1997. He was appointed research professor in
2003. During his tenure, Professor Bookstein had research appointments in the Center
for Human Growth and Development, the Institute of Gerontology, the Department of
Biostatistics, and the Reproductive Sciences Program, and he held teaching
appointments in a number of departments.
Professor Bookstein, a biometer, statistical scientist, and applied mathematician, is
perhaps best known as the principal creator of morphometrics, a subfield of statistics
that focuses on the measurement of biological shape and shape change. The results of
his work have been applied across many fields, including evolutionary and
developmental biology, paleontology, computer vision, medical imaging, and cognitive
neuroimaging. He has published over 300 books, chapters, articles, and videos, as well
as several software programs.
Among Professor Bookstein's honors are the University's Distinguished Research
Scientist Award (1989) and appointment as a fellow of the Institute for the Humanities
(1992-93) and as an Honors Faculty Fellow in the Honors Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts (2001-04). In 1998 he was named life associate fellow
of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics. He has held visiting and guest appointments at
universities in the United States and abroad.
The Regents now salute this accomplished faculty member by naming Fred L.
Bookstein research professor emeritus and distinguished senior research scientist
emeritus.
Roberta M. Tankanow, clinical associate professor of pharmacy in the College
of Pharmacy and clinical pharmacist in the University of Michigan Hospitals Pharmacy
Services, retired from active faculty status on June 20, 2005.
Professor Tankanow received her B.S. degree from Northeastern University in
1975. She was appointed as a staff pharmacist at the University of Michigan in 1977
and joined the faculty as a clinical instructor in 1981. In 1984, she received her M.S.
degree from Wayne State University and was promoted to clinical assistant professor,
and in 2000 she was promoted to clinical associate professor.
A pioneering pharmacist and faculty member, Professor Tankanow founded the
Investigational Drug Service (IDS) at the University of Michigan Hospitals in 1984,
and today the service is used as a model by many institutions around the country. The
IDS manages all of the University's clinical human trials that involve use of
investigational agents and ensures compliance with appropriate safety and legal
standards. Professor Tankanow initiated and developed all of the original protocols and
standards by which the service operates, and the service has grown from handling fewer
than 50 protocols at a time to managing almost 300 protocols today. In addition, she
developed a validated fee structure, a quality assurance program, and a process for
preparing for protocol audits at IDS, and she served on the Institutional Review Board
and Protocol Review Committee for the Cancer Center.
Nationally recognized as a leader in the field of investigational drug research,
Professor Tankanow was invited to participate in the development of guidelines for
investigational drug service practices through the American Society of Health-System
Pharmacists. She has served as a reviewer for textbooks and articles and as a consultant
for practitioners in the field. In recent years, Professor Tankanow broadened her clinical
interests to include the area of alternative medicine. She has conducted research in
herbal medicine, and participated in the Faculty Scholars Program.

117



October Meeting, 2005

The Regents now salute this distinguished educator by naming Roberta M.
Tankanow clinical associate professor emerita of pharmacy.
Susan P. Wright, Ph.D., lecturer in the history of science in the Residential
College and research scientist in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender,
retired from active faculty status on May 31, 2005.
Dr. Wright received her B.A. degree from Oxford University in 1961, her M.S.
degree from the University of Michigan in 1963, and her Ph.D. degree from Harvard
University in 1975. She joined the University of Michigan faculty as a lecturer in 1979.
She received an additional appointment as associate research scientist in 1998 and was
promoted to research scientist in 2002.
In the Residential College, Dr. Wright developed the Science, Technology, and
Society Program (STS), and chaired it until 1997. This program integrates science
training with the study of its social and cultural dimensions, including those related to
feminist and non-western perspectives. As chair, Dr. Wright designed a wide range of
courses, recruited numerous faculty, and taught and mentored many students across the
University who have pursued careers related to science, technology, and society within
the fields of law, journalism, medicine, and policy.
Within the Institute for Research on Women and Gender, Dr. Wright's work
focused on rethinking approaches to arms control and disarmament by setting as
primary goals the security of people and their environments. Her expertise lies in the
area of national and international policies guiding the development of biotechnology,
and in 1998-99, she directed a large-scale international project on biological warfare
and disarmament. Her publications include many refereed articles and three books:
Preventing a Biological Arms Race (1990); Molecular Politics. Developing American
and British Regulatory Policyfor Genetic Engineering, 1972-82 (1994); and Biological
Warfare and Disarmament: New Problems/New Perspectives (2002). Dr. Wright's
work has received funding from the National Science Foundation, the John D. and
Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, and the Ford Foundation, and she has been
recognized with numerous awards, including the Rockefeller Humanities Fellowship,
the MacArthur Research and Writing Fellowship, and the University of Michigan
Excellence in Education Award.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Susan P.
Wright lecturer emerita in the history of science and research scientist emerita.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents
this month.
Degrees. Provost Gramlich submitted for approval final degree lists for August
2005 commencements and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
Annual Report of Investments, Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2005
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that in January the University had
been upgraded by Standard & Poors to its highest credit rating, due in part to long-term,
consistent, investment results as well as consistently demonstrated budget discipline.

118



October Meeting, 2005

Absolute Return Investments (GSO Special Situations Overseas Fund, Ltd.);
Alternative Asset Commitments (Newbridge Asia IV, L.P., and NCH New Europe
Property Fund, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the following investments: initial funding of $50 million from
the Long Term Portfolio to GSO Special Situations Overseas Fund Ltd.; commitment of
$25 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Newbridge Asia IV, L.P.; and
commitment of $20 million to NCH New Europe Property Fund, L.P.
The University of Michigan Financial Statements for the Year ended June 30, 2005
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that the Board had received and
discussed the financial statements at the September meeting, and formal adoption was
now required. He praised staff in the Office of the Vice President for Communications
for their work in producing the financial statements. He acknowledged the work of
Associate Vice President Peggy Norgren, Controller Cheryl Soper, and manager of
financial reporting, Russel Fleming. He noted that the external auditors were present.
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved adoption of the University of Michigan Financial Statements for
the Year ended June 30, 2005.
Naming of the University of Michigan-Dearborn's Engineering Complex in honor
of Heinz C. Prechter
Executive Vice President Slottow and Chancellor Little commented on the
generous support of Heinz C. and Wally Prechter on the Dearborn campus. On a
motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents unanimously
approved naming the Engineering Complex at the University of Michigan Dearborn the
Heinz C. Prechter Engineering Complex.
Naming of the Student Publications Building in honor of Stanford Lipsey
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that Stanford Lipsey, a former Michigan
Daily photographer, had given a generous gift of $3 million to support improvements to
the Student Publications Building that will preserve its historic features while upgrading
the building's infrastructure. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent
White, the Regents unanimously approved formally designating the Student
Publications Building as the Stanford Lipsey Student Publications Building.
Naming of the Academic Center in honor of Stephen M. Ross
It was noted that Stephen M. Ross had contributed $5 million to support
construction of the new Academic Center for the Department of Intercollegiate
Athletics. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved designating the new building the Stephen M. Ross Academic
Center.
Cancer and Geriatrics Center and Medical Sciences Unit I Chiller Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Cancer and Geriatrics Centers and Medical Sciences Unit I

119



October Meeting, 2005

Chiller Replacement project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding a construction contract providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
Stephen M. Ross School of Business Facilities Enhancement Project
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that Bill Pedersen, of Kohn
Pedersen Fox Associates, would be presenting the proposed schematic design for this
project, and Dean Robert Dolan was also present. Executive Vice President Slottow
noted that the construction schedule will depend on achievement of the fundraising goal
that has been set for this project and expressed confidence that this goal will be
achieved as planned. He then called on Mr. Pedersen. Mr. Pedersen displayed a site
map indicating the location of the project, noting that the new construction would total
270,000 square feet. About 180,000 square feet of existing space, comprising the
Business Administration Assembly Hall, William Davidson Hall, and the William A.
Paton Center for Accounting Education and Research would be demolished and
replaced by the new facility. He said that the manner in which the new building is
integrated into the rest of the campus is very important, and the building also needs to
be able to establish linkages between the existing structures and new structures and
create a strong sense of community for the Business School.
Mr. Pedersen displayed a model of the new facility, noting that it would create a
"winter quadrangle" at the heart of the business school campus equivalent to a town
square. He described various features of the structure and noted that it would consist of
different heights along the various streets surrounding the school. There will be a
glass-covered portico at the entrance to the structure and into the atrium, and all of the
remaining buildings of the existing campus, such as the Kresge Library, will be
integrated into the new structure. He displayed a number of renderings of the exterior
and interior of the building, noting that it would be faced with sandstone and terra cotta
and would incorporate a large amount of glass, an auditorium, and a number of other
elements, including a sky gallery.
Regent Richner commented that it is a "spectacular design," and inquired
whether the extensive use of glass would affect operational costs. Mr. Pedersen noted
that all of the energy costs have been carefully considered, and that the natural light
provided by the glass is fundamental to the issues of sustainability and quality of life
provided by the facility. It is also recognized as efficient from the standpoint of energy
usage.
Dean Dolan commented that the building is not only exciting from an
architectural standpoint, but is most exciting in the way it meets the school's unique
programmatic requirements in a very integrated fashion.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the schematic design for the Stephen M. Ross School of
Business Facilities Enhancement project as presented.

120



October Meeting, 2005

Towsley Center for Continuing Medical Education Fire Alarm System Upgrade
and Fire Suppression System Installation
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Towsley Center for Continuing Medical Education Fire
Alarm System Upgrade and Fire Suppression System Installation Project as described,
and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts,
providing that bids are within the approved budget.
1009 and 1013 Cornwell Place, Ann Arbor, Michigan
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that these two properties are
strategically located across from the School of Nursing and contiguous to other
University property. He said that if purchased, the properties will continue their current
use as leased apartment buildings until an appropriate programmatic need arises for
them. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved acquisition of the properties at 1009 and 1013 Cornwell Place,
Ann Arbor, Michigan at the negotiated price of $1,500,000 subject to the University
satisfying itself with the environmental condition of the sites and otherwise completing
due diligence.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes nine conflict of interest
items, each of which requires six votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the following items.
Approval of Payment to Joe Braun Photography
The Regents approved a payment to Joe Braun Photography for a variety of
framed and matted photographs in the Office of the General Counsel. Because Joseph
B. Braun, sole owner of Joe Braun Photography, is also a University of Michigan
employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Office
of the General Counsel and Joe Braun Photography.
2.   The product to be provided is framed and matted photographs at a total cost of $1,200.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Braun, a University of Michigan
employee, is sole owner of Joe Braun Photography.
Contract Agreement with NeuroNexus Technologies
The Regents approved a contract agreement with NeuroNexus Technologies for
the purchase of multi-channel recording probes. Because Daryl Kipke and Jamille
Hetke have ownership interest in NeuroNexus Technologies and are also University of
Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Kresge Hearing Research Institute and Otolaryngology Laboratory and NeuroNexus
Technologies.
2.   The products provided are multi-channel recording probes at a total cost of $1,015.

121



October Meeting, 2005

3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Kipke and Mr. Hetke, University
of Michigan employees, have ownership interest in NeuroNexus Technologies.
Approval of Payment to Media Farrago Studios, LLC
The Regents approved a payment to Media Farrago Studios, LLC, for the
filming, editing, and production of an educational DVD. Because Charles V. Brown, a
partner in Media Farrago Studios, LLC, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
School of Music and Media Farrago Studios, LLC.
2.   The service provided is filming, editing, and production of an education DVD at a
total cost of $3,850.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Brown, a University of Michigan
employee, is a partner of Media Farrago Studios, LLC.
Approval of Payment to Woolly Acres Nursery
The Regents approved a payment to Woolly Acres Nursery for plants for the
annual spring plant sale at the Matthaei Botanical Gardens. Because Jeffrey Walters,
owner of Woolly Acres Nursery, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Matthei Botanical Gardens and Woolly Acres Nursery.
2.   The products provided were plants at a total cost of $329.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Walters, a University of Michigan
employee, is owner of Woolly Acres Nursery.
Approval of Payment to Ply LLC
The Regents approved a payment to Ply LLC for minor renovations to the
International Institute gallery space. Because M. Craig Borum, sole proprietor of Ply
LLC, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Ply LLC.
2.   The service provided was minor renovations of gallery space at a total cost of
$1,862.01.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Borum, a University of Michigan
employee, is sole proprietor of Ply LLC.
License Agreement with Zattoo, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with Zattoo, Inc., for "Host
Multicast" (UM File No. 3217). Because Dr. Sugih Jamin, partial owner of Zattoo, Inc.,
is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Zattoo,
Inc.
2.   The license terms include giving Zattoo an exclusive license with the right to grant
sublicenses. Zattoo will pay a license fee, and the University will retain ownership of

122



October Meeting, 2005

the licensed technology and may continue to further develop it.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties. University procedures for approval of these changes can be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Jamin, a University of Michigan
employee, is partial owner of Zattoo, Inc. Dr. Jamin has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University
Option Agreement with BioAvrion
The Regents approved an option agreement with BioAvrion for "Method of
Evaluating the Metabolism of the Eye" (UM File No. 2573) and "Anti-Metastic Ability
of Mibedfradil and Gadolinium" (UM File No. 2667). Because Drs. Victor Elner,
Howard Petter, and Paul Lichter, partial owners of BioAvrion, are also University of
Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
BiAvrion.
2.   The option terms include giving BioAvrion an exclusive option for an option period
where the company will evaluate the technology and market potential. The University
will retain ownership of the optional technology and may continue to further develop
it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties. University procedures for approval of these changes can be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Elner, Petty, and Lichter,
University of Michigan employees, are partial owner of BioAvrion. Drs. Elner and
Petty have waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University.
Subcontract Agreement with Soar Technology, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with Soar Technology, Inc., to
provide analysis, technical interchange, and design to the University for a contract from
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base (FA8650-05-C-7235). Because Dr. John Laird,
part-owner and officer of Soar Technology, Inc., is also a University of Michigan
employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Soar
Technology, Inc.
2.   The agreement terms conform to University Policy. Dr. Laird will be the principal
investigator for the project at the University, to be conducted over and initial one-year
period at an estimated total cost of $1,106,553, including indirect cost at 53%.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Laird, a University of Michigan
employee, has ownership interest in Soar Technology, Inc.

123



October Meeting, 2005

Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Omni Sciences
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of
Michigan and Omni Sciences, Inc. ("Company") in the form of a subcontract between
the Company and the Regents of the University of Michigan to perform research under
a prime contract between the Company and the Army under the Small Business
Technology Transfer Program Phase I. Because Dr. Mohammed N. Islam, sole owner
of Omni Sciences, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Omni Sciences, Inc.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy and will be
conducted over an eight month period at an estimated total cost of $37,077. The
subcontract includes a provision for extensions of the time period and scope of work.
University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Islam's pecuniary interest arises from his status as the sole owner of Omni
Sciences, Inc. He will not participate in the project in his capacity as a University
employee.
Public Comments
The Public Comments session began at 3:25 p.m. The Regents heard comments
from Jan Worth-Nelson, faculty and Flint Grievance Chair of the Lecturer's Employee
Organization (LEO), on the topic of LEO contract implementation problems.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:35 p.m. The
next meeting is scheduled for November 17, 2005.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretary of the University

124



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005

The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
November 17, 2005
The Regents convened at 2:40 p.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Vice President Churchill, Interim Provost Gramlich, Vice
President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor
Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice
President Slottow, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent Deitch
was absent.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order and welcomed the members of
"Team Momentum," the University's solar car team, to be recognized for winning the
2005 North American Solar Car Challenge. She noted that Interim Dean Ronald Gibala
was present, along with two faculty advisors, and called on Regent White to present the
resolution.
Resolution in Honor of Solar Car Team
Regent White called team members to the podium and read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of the University of Michigan congratulate the University
of Michigan Solar Car Team for the first-place victory of its car, "Momentum, "
in the 2,500-mile North American Solar Challenge race which began in Austin,
Texas, on July 17 and concluded in Calgary, Alberta, on July 27, 2005. The
victory marks the University's fourth solar car national championship, the most
of any university since competition began in 1990.
The Regents also proudly salute Momentum's impressive third-place
finish among 22 entries in the 2005 World Solar Challenge. This week-long,
3,000-kilometer race, which traverses the Australian continent from Darwin to
Adelaide, concluded on October 2, and included teams from both the academic
and corporate sectors.
Each generation of solar car is the product of two years of non-stop
endeavor by an enterprising, interdisciplinary, student-run team of more than
150 members. The creativity, dedication and sophistication with which the
Solar Car Team manages all aspects of this project-from fundraising, to
engineering, to marketing, to logistics-prove that "The Michigan Difference"
makes all the difference when our students compete with the best and brightest
from around the world.
The Regents take great pride in Team Momentum 's accomplishments in
the 2005 North American and World Solar Challenges and look forward to
further triumphs in the years to come.

125



November Meeting, 2005

Following the resolution, there was a round of applause, and the student team
members introduced themselves. Brian Gilchrest, one of the faculty advisors, thanked
the Regents and administration for creating the environment that allows these kinds of
opportunities to happen, noting that it is very much appreciated.
President's Opening Remarks
President Coleman commented on recent national accolades given to University
faculty and students. She noted that William "Buzz" Alexander, professor of English
Language and Literature, had been named one of four "U.S. Professors of the Year."
She also announced that the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers had
awarded the 2006 Edison Medal, considered the Nobel Prize of electronics, to Vice
President Fawwaz Ulaby. President Coleman reported that 29 University of Michigan
students had been awarded Fulbright Fellowships for 2005-06, the most of any other
U.S. University. She noted that Regent White is a former Fulbright scholar who
currently serves on the board of directors of the Fulbright Association and is its
incoming vice president.
President Coleman concluded by announcing the establishment of a new initiative
focusing on environmental sustainability, made possible by a $5.25 million gift from
the Graham Foundation, which was founded by alumni Donald and Ingrid Graham.
Annual Report of the Senate Advisory Committee on University Affairs (SACUA)
President Coleman called on Professor Bruno Giordani, chair of SACUA, to
present the committee's annual report. In the report, Professor Giordani gave examples
of recently addressed issues that illustrate how the model of shared governance works at
the University of Michigan. He reviewed the work of the various Senate Assembly
advisory committees and discussed the work of the newly established position of
faculty ombuds. He concluded by stressing the importance of effective communication
in governance on the part of both faculty and administrators.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan-Ann Arbor
Campus for FY 2007
Interim Provost Gramlich reviewed the highlights of the Ann Arbor campus's
operating request to the state for FY 2007, noting that it points out steps that have been
taken to contain costs and reduce expenditures but that certain factors outside of the
University's control will lead to increased costs. The formal request to the state
requests restoration of as much as possible of the $47.2 million reduction that the
University has experienced since FY 2002.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
Campus for FY 2007
Chancellor Little reported that the request for the Dearborn campus is framed
around its strategic vision. Although the University of fully mindful of the state's fiscal
situation, it has also been impacted by several years of successive reductions in state
support, totaling $3.5 million. The request for the Dearborn campus calls for an
increase in state support of about 4%, or $1.0 million dollars, but at the same time

126



November Meeting, 2005

recognizes the need for the state to bring the level of funding for all higher education
institutions back to the levels from 2002.
Annual Operating Request to the State for the University of Michigan-Flint
Campus for FY 2007
Chancellor Mestas noted that the Flint request focuses on the need to add faculty
positions in the areas of strategic growth, continue to improve and expand campus
technology, and to enhance community partnership efforts.  The Flint campus's
requested increase is about $3.5 million.
President Coleman asked Executive Vice President Slottow about projected energy
costs. He responded that staff are monitoring futures prices of natural gas very
carefully and are working closely with the provost's office and with staff on the other
two campuses. However, campus units will be informed next week that the internal rate
for heating will be increased, and these costs will continue to exert a significant amount
of pressure on the operating budget in the future.
Central Campus Master Plan Update
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that Associate Provost Phil Hanlon would
provide an update on academic needs with respect to central campus planning and
University Planner Sue Gott would describe how the University Planner's Office is
responding to the academic needs.
Associate Provost Hanlon noted that the breadth and depth of activity occurring on
central campus means that planning for central campus embodies the full complexity of
the academic enterprise. He described the steps involved in the planning process,
including consultation, priority-setting, and formation of the plan. The three themes
that serve as the foundation for central campus planning are innovation, collaboration,
and excellence, and he illustrated how these themes lead to specific space needs within
buildings as well as the positioning of facilities and the units they house around the
campus.
University Planner Sue Gott gave a presentation describing how the academic
themes of innovation, collaboration, and excellence are realized in the Central Campus
master planning process. Ms. Gott described and illustrated the land use patterns that
have emerged on Central Campus, including a natural sciences corridor, a social
sciences corridor, a performing arts corridor, and an arts and humanities corridor. She
noted that the fundamental themes driving the plan are student life issues, the need for
collaboration/adjacencies/interdisciplinary work, the ability to attract the "brightest and
best," issues involving international studies, and the preservation of knowledge. The
physical planning principles involved in the master plan are to preserve future
flexibility, maximize  and  optimize  site  capacities, promote  redevelopment
opportunities, address building conditions, and enhance mobility.
Ms. Gott gave an update on several new projects already under construction,
noting how they incorporate the themes and planning principles involved in the master
plan. She concluded by illustrating how the projects discussed in the Central Campus
Plan update represent a continuation of the University's planning efforts over time,
driven by the University's mission, and incorporating academic priorities, the

127



November Meeting, 2005

Residential Life Initiative, the Health System Strategic Plan, physical planning
principles, and facility condition needs.
Parking and Transportation Strategic Plan Update
David Miller, director of Parking and Transportation, gave an update to illustrate
how parking and transportation plans align with University master plans in support of the
University's academic, research and health care mission. He enumerated Parking and
Transportation challenges, which include responding to growth on the Ann Arbor
campus, meeting the transportation needs for students, continuing the relationship with
AATA, promoting alternative transportation, and maintaining existing parking facilities.
Mr. Miller noted that the number of passengers on UM buses had increased 11%
over FY 2004, and 33% since 1999, for a total of 5.2 million passengers in 2005. He
described improvements that had been made in student bus service during the past year
and also noted that the MRide program, a joint program with the AATA, had a 24%
ridership increase in fall 2005.
Mr. Miller commented that the University is making concerted efforts to reduce
the use of cars and parking facilities in the central and medical campus areas by making
the transit system more attractive to faculty and staff. These efforts, which are included
in university's master plan for each area of campus, include making transit centers more
comfortable and convenient. In addition, he pointed out that one new parking structure
per year will be coming on board through 2010, with a possible 6th structure planned
beyond that.
Regent McGowan pointed out that the Arthur Miller Theatre and Walgreen
Auditorium will be opening before the parking facilities planned for that area are
completed. Mr. Miller described how parking needs will be accommodated after the
theatre and auditorium are completed in 2007. He noted that when the auditorium is
completed, the existing surface lot will be increased to 250 spaces and will be
controlled for special events. Between 2007 and 2009, when the parking structure for
that area will be under construction, a combination of initiatives will be put into place,
including reserving spaces in nearby lots and running bus service and valet service, if
necessary. The parking office will work with event coordinators for each event to
insure adequate parking.
Regent McGowan asked for assurance of the University's commitment to provide
convenient access to the theatre and auditorium once they are open. Executive Vice
President Slottow responded that Parking and Transportation officials and Dean
Kendall of the School of Music have been formulating plans to ensure that during the
interim period before completion of the structure the timing of events will be
coordinated between the school and the parking office. Executive Vice President
Slottow commented that although there is some flexibility in the overall plan for the
sequencing of new parking facilities, currently the need for parking on central campus
represents a higher priority than on North Campus. He assured the Regents that he, Mr.
Miller, and Dean Kendall are all committed to devising a parking plan that will satisfy
the patrons of events at the new facilities on North Campus.
Mr. Miller concluded his presentation by displaying maps indicating the locations
of future parking structures and a financial model indicating probable annual permit

128



November Meeting, 2005

rates through FY 2010. He reported the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has
awarded the University of Michigan the "Gold Standard for Best Work Places for
Commuters."
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
primary agenda item for this month's committee meeting was to conduct an in-depth
review, including a financial and operational update, of M-CARE, as per the
committee's annual work plan. He said the committee learned that M-CARE and its
affiliated entities are operating at a very high level in a very complex environment. The
committee also finalized its committee calendar for 2006. Finally, the committee had
received a written quarterly report of the Life Sciences Institute.
Regent Brandon noted that the Investment Advisory Committee would be meeting
in Ann Arbor this weekend, and he would be stopping by their meeting to thank this
volunteer committee on behalf of the Regents for their service in helping the University
to continue to outpace most benchmarks in its investment performance.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee. Regent Taylor reported
that the committee had met that morning with SACUA to review its annual report. He
said that the committee was pleased to learn of the on-going meetings and dialog taking
place between SACUA and members of the administration on a number of issues.
The committee also received a report from the provost on faculty recruitment and
retention, and it reviewed president's office expense reports, finding everything in order.
The Regents then turned to the consent agenda. Regent Brandon left the meeting
at this point, apologizing for having had a prior commitment.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of October 21, 2005.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report and
made the following comments about the University's policies with respect to
investments:
Comments Regarding University's Investments
Both my office and the President's Office have received a number of questions
over the past few months about the University's policies regarding the investment of
our endowment. So to be responsive, I want to take a few minutes to review these
policies.
First, let me note that these policies have been consistent and clear over a very
long period of time. We have the benefit of excellent and thoughtful work by our
Regents and by two faculty-led committees, one in 1978 and another in 1999, in
developing the rationale behind these policies and articulating the set of conditions
that must be met in the rare cases where an exception will be made to our normal
investment policies.
There is one overarching principle related to our endowment and investment
strategy: The University 's governing board and officers have a fiduciary responsibility
to protect our assets for the long term, so that we may leave to succeeding generations

129



November Meeting, 2005

a University at least as strong as the one with which we have been entrusted
Therefore, the primary purpose of our endowment is to generate the greatest possible
income, subject to an appropriate amount of risk, in support of the University 's
missions of teaching, research and service.
To accomplish this goal, it is important that we maintain an investment portfolio
diversified across afull range of legally recognized entities. To do otherwise would be
to increase our risk and decrease our investment returns - perhaps significantly so.
For this reason, our longstanding policy is to shield the endowment from political
pressures and to base our investment decisions solely on financial factors such as risk
and return.
However, the University also has recognized that there may be unusual instances
in which we should consider exceptions to this policy. The threshold for such an
exception has intentionally been set extremely high, for the reasons I've noted.
In 1978, the Board of Regents adopted a resolution including the following
language. "If the Regents shall determine that a particular issue involves serious
moral or ethical questions which are of concern to many members of the University
community, an advisory committee consisting of members of the University Senate,
students, administration and alumni will be appointed to gather information and
formulate recommendations for the Regents ' consideration. " Such a committee would
be ad hoc, appointed only after the Regents determine that a particular issue might
require a deviation from the normal investment policy.
The 1978 resolution does not specify what rises to the level of "serious moral or
ethical questions,"Y or what will constitute "many members of the University
community Y but the 1978 faculty advisory committee report as well as subsequent
work by the 1999 tobacco divestment committee do help to clariy these.
The 1978 faculty committee that reviewed possible divestment from apartheid
South Africa wrote that the University has some responsibility to consider the ethical
implications of its investments "in those cases in which an extraordinary social evil is
apparent and a broad consensus develops within the University community concerning
the moral shortcomings of a particular firm or type of investment. " The committee
stated its belief that "the University should not seek out controversy but rather should
act only when a general consensus on a significant moral question has emerged within
the University community." It went on to say that the University "must make strenuous
efforts to avoid making commitments, as a corporate body, to political positions that
may intimidate its members, produce an atmosphere of distrust and suspicion, or
create obstacles to free inquiry."Y
The 1999 committee to investigate tobacco divestment was created by President
Bollinger in accordance with the Regents resolution, after several years of sustained
community concern about this issue. Although it is impossible to affix a number or a
percentage to what constitutes broad community consensus on a given issue, it is worth
noting that the Faculty Senate Assembly, Michigan Student Assembly and a number of
other University leadership groups passed formal resolutions or in other ways

130



November Meeting, 2005

In his charge to the committee, the University's chief financial officer asked it to
determine whether the holding of tobacco securities "is antithetical to the core
missions of the University of Michigan and, therefore, merit divestiture."  The
committee also undertook to determine what features of tobacco products and what
activities of the tobacco industry warranted singling out tobacco securities for
potential divestment.
According to the 1999 committee, in order to justify divestment, "the magnitude
of both the misbehavior in question and the harm caused by that misbehavior must be
so extreme that the company or industry would be a clear outlier in the corporate
community. "
In recommending divestment, the committee argued that tobacco companies make
a product that is unique in its capacity to cause death in its intended use, with more
than 400,000 deaths in the United States and more than 4 million deaths worldwide
each year as a result of tobacco use. The committee singled out the "dishonest and
reprehensible" behavior of the tobacco industry in targeting its products to young
people, artificially enhancing the addictiveness of tobacco products through the
addition of nicotine, denying the health effects of tobacco and suppressing scientific
research. It concluded that the health effects of tobacco and the actions of the tobacco
industry "are especially antithetical to the missions of this University, given our
commitment to teaching, research and service in the fields of health care and public
health. "
These two instances - apartheid in South Africa and the deadly effects of tobacco
- are the only two instances in the University's history when exceptions have been
made to our investment policy.
So in the future, such exceptions will continue to be rare. We will ask the Regents
to appoint an ad hoc committee to investigate the ethical and moral implications of our
investments only when the following three conditions have been met:
1.    The concern to be explored must express the broadly and consistently held
position of the campus community over time;
2.    There must be reason to believe that the behavior or action in question may be
antithetical to the core mission and values of the University.
3.    There must be reason to believe that the organization, industry or entity to be
singled out may be uniquely responsible for the problems identified.
I will post additional information about these policies to my website, along with
links to the South Africa and Tobacco divestment reports. I encourage anyone who is
interested in our investment policies to read these thoughtful documents.
I invite any questions or comments that the Board may have.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman said that in order to assure that the required quorum would be
present for consideration of the conflict of interest items, they would be considered at
this point. She announced that the agenda includes six conflict of interest items, each of
which requires six votes for approval. Regent Richner requested recusal from the
request for a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc. Therefore, this item was removed from consideration until the
following month. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the
Regents unanimously approved the following five items.

131



November Meeting, 2005

Approval of a Contract with Gladwin Center
The Regents approved a contract with the Gladwin Center for use of their
conference facilities for University departments. Because Thomas Gladwin, owner of
the Gladwin Center, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
Procurement Department and the Gladwin Center.
2.   The service provided is a facility rental for one year with a one-year extension option,
for a total of $3,000.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Gladwin, a University of Michigan
employee, is owner of the Gladwin Center.
Lease Agreement with William C. Martin
The Regents approved a lease agreement with William C. Martin for 1,385 square
feet of property located at 540 East Liberty Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan. Because Mr.
Martin owns the property being leased and is also a University of Michigan employee,
this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The
following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and William
C. Martin.
2.   The service provided is the lease of 1,385 square feet within a building at 540 East
Liberty Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan. The lease is for five years, from November 1,
2005-October 31, 2010, and the rent is $2,308 for the first year with annual increases
of 3.5% for the remainder of the term. Tenant is responsible for gas and electric usage
plus janitorial service.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Martin, a University of Michigan
employee, owns the property being leased.
Reassignment Agreement with Mark D. Hamming, David K. Wehe, and John A.
Nees
The Regents approved a reassignment agreement with Mark D. Hamming, David
K. Wehe, and John A. Nees for the technology entitled "Kinetic Cooling of Mechanical
Structures" (UM   File No. 2979). Because Drs. Hamming, Wehe, and Nees are also
University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Mark D.
Hamming, David K. Wehe, and John A. Nees.
2.   The terms of the agreement include the University granting the Inventors its entire
right, title, and interest in the patent rights to the Invention, and the Inventors shall pay
the University 15% of royalties, equity, or other value received by the Inventors
through subsequent marketing and licensing of the Invention.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of

132



November Meeting, 2005

the parties. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed, and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be followed as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Hamming, Wehe, and Nees are
University of Michigan employees.
Purchase Order Agreement with Michigan Aerospace Corporation
The Regents approved an agreement with Michigan Aerospace Corporation to
build and test a conceptual design of a stern-ramp deployable surface and underwater
recovery vehicle that will simultaneously launch and allow for automated recover of
marine unmanned vehicles. Because Dr. Lennard Fisk, partial owner of Michigan
Aerospace Corporation, is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Michigan Aerospace Corporation.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
is expected to be from September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006, and the amount payable to
the University is expected to be $164,989. Standard purchase order terms and
conditions will apply. Since research agreements are often amended, the purchase
order may include provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University of
Michigan procedures for approval of these changes will be followed, and additional
review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Fisk, a University of Michigan
employee, is partial owner of Michigan Aerospace Corporation.
Subcontract Agreement with Industrial Optical Measurement Systems, LLC
The Regents approved an agreement with Industrial Optical Measurement
Systems, LLC, to enable research to be performed to refine a technology for automated
inspection of cylinder bones. Because Dr. Stephen Segall, founder and owner of
Industrial Optical Measurement Systems, LLC, is also a University of Michigan
employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Industrial Optical Measurement Systems, LLC.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The project at the
University is to be conducted over an initial one-year period at an estimated total cost
of $30,000. Since research agreements are often amended, the purchase order may
include provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University of Michigan
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed, and additional review by
the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Segall, a University of Michigan
employee, is founder and owner of Industrial Optical Measurement Systems, LLC.
Plant Extension Report. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Plant
Extension Report.
Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report. Executive Vice President
Slottow submitted the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report.

133



November Meeting, 2005

Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research    Report.     The Regents received the report of projects established,
October 1 - October 3 1, 2005.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Keich
reported that the Health System's M-Fit Program and been awarded the 2005
"Innovation in Prevention Award" from the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services on October 25, 2005. Only ten such awards are presented each year.
Division of Student Affairs. There was no report from the Division of Student
Affairs.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little had no additional report.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas had no additional report.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. Jesse Levine, president of MSA, reported
on activities of MSA, which included being a partner in the presentation of the first hip
hop concert ("Ludacris") on the University of Michigan campus. He also commented
on collaborations between MSA and the Ann Arbor City Council, as well as other MSA
activities.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for October 2005. He commented on the recently- announced gift from Donald
Graham for establishment of the environmental sustainability initiative, and thanked
Interim Provost Gramlich for his efforts in helping to secure this gift.
Abt Associates, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
for the Abt Associates Fellows Fund in Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research. $30,000O
Marjorie Alpern Trust
1,725 shares of Commercial Federal Corporation common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Funds in the Medical School............................... 58,926
Jose J. Alvarez, Wixom
for the Jose Jose Alvarez Residence Professorship in the Medical School....................... 40,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..............................................................21,250
American Council of Learned Societies, New York, New York
for the Charles A. Ryskamp Research Fellowship in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.............................................................. 30000
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Division of Kinesiology and the Medical School........................... 359,292
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................... 149,364
Amerisure Companies, Farmington Hills
for research in the Medical School and for employee matching gifts........................... 32,000
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for the Sanford-Amgen Young Investigator's Award in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.............................................................. 25,000

134



November Meeting, 2005

Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, Irvine, California
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 160000
Mary-Martha Beierwaltes, Petoskey
for the Biological Station........................................................... 10,000
Leo R. Beus, Scottsdale, Arizona
for support in the Law School........................................................ 10,000
R. H. Bluestein & Company, Birmingham
for the Trading Floor and Research Facilities Fund in the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business................................................................ 10000
John D. Boyles Revocable Trust
278 shares of Fifth Third Bancorp common stock
for the University of Michigan Club of Grand Rapids Athletics Scholarship Fund
in the Department of Athletics and the John Duvall Boyles Endowed Scholarship
Fund in the Law School...............................10,14
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
for the Brehm- Soderquist Endowed Professorship Fund in the Medical School................. 1,000,000
Brian Parker Memorial Foundation, Niles
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................................... 10,000
Scott D. Brown, Odessa, Florida
for scholarships and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Sharon and Frederick Brubaker Fund of the Ayco Charitable Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for the Sharon and Frederick Brubaker Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy.............. 10,000
Ford R. Bryan Trust
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn................... 150,000
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School................................................... 150000
Theodore J. Cachey, Hinsdale, Illinois
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics and for the Reunion Gift
Facilities Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................. 10,000
Cairn Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre and for other support in
the School of Music..................................110,000
Steven L. Carpenter, Savannah, Georgia
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 10,000
Vivian L. Carpenter, Birmingham
for the Herbert J. Strather Endowment Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning and for the Alumni Society Board of
Governor's Scholarship Fund and the Reunion Gift Facilities Fund in the
Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................................. 21,000
Marcia L. Carris, Denver, Colorado
for the Reunion Gift Facilities Fund and other support in the Stephen M.
Ross School of Business............................................................ 10000
David E. A. Carson, Hartford, Connecticut
for the Reunion Gift Facilities Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................. 50,000
Center for Automotive Research, Ann Arbor
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 16,000
CFI Group, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................20,000
Chicago Community Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 20000
Clan Crawford, Jr., Trust
for the Exhibit Museum of Natural History and for the Botanical Gardens and Arboretum........... 14,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 30000
David S. Cooper Trust
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics................................... 100,000
Matthew L. Copp, San Diego, California

135



November Meeting, 2005

Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, Grand Rapids
for support in the Transplant Center..................................................... 10,000
Division of Organic Chemistry American Chemical Society, Detroit
for the ACS Organic Chemistry Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 24,000
Dr. Jim's Golf Classic, Utica
for the Dr. James Langeveld BMT Patient Support Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center....... 14,000
Efroymson Fund of the Central Indiana Community Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................10,000
Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................................. 73,000
Ellison Medical Foundation, Redwood City, California
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 50,000
Erb Foundation, Birmingham
for the Botanical Gardens and Arboretum............................................ 10,000
Hubert L. Fairchild Trust
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Charles Fisher, East Lansing
for the Indoor Training Facility Fund in the Department of Athletics.......................... 46,413
Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher Foundation, Inc., Southfield
for the Friends of Near Eastern Studies Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 16,000
Marjorie M. Fisher Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for the Friends of Near Eastern Studies Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 15,000
Flint Ink Corporation, Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.........................  17,000
Food Allergy Initiative, New York, New York
for the Food Allergy Program in the Medical School....................................... 26,800
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Public Health............................................... 74,735
Lynn Gendleman, Chicago, Illinois
for the Lynn and Mark Gendleman Endowment Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................... 10,000
General Dynamics, Falls Church, Virginia
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................10,000
Charles H. Gershenson Trust
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre in the School of Music and
for the University Musical Society................................................. 50,000
Charles H. Gessner, Marblehead, Massachusetts
for the Charles H. Gessner Doctorial Fellowship in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........ 20,000
Charlene L. Glerum, Grand Rapids
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 20,000
General Motors Corporation, Detroit
for research in the Medical School and the Transportation Research Institute.................... 123,000
Goellner Family Trust
for the Biological Station......................................................... 45,000
Michael D. Gorge, Franklin
for the Gorge Family Endowment Fund in the Medical School................................. 40,000
Andrew K. Gottesman, Summit, New Jersey
for the Student Publication Building Renovation Fund.................................... 60,000
Margaret E. Grigsby, Washington, D. C.
for the Fitzbutler Jones Society, Margaret E. Grigsby, M.D. Endowed Scholarship
Fund in the M edical School..........................................................60,000
Gund, Inc., Edison, New Jersey
for the Scleroderma Research Fund in the Medical School.................................. 22,400
Craig Gurian, New York, New York
for the Arthur Fondiler Dissertation Award in US History in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts........................................................ 10,000
Alfredo D. Gutirrez, Coconut Grove, Florida
1,430 shares of JPMorgan Chase & Company common stock
for the Alfredo D. and Luz Maria P. Gutierrez Fellowship Fund in the Horace H.
Rackham School of Graduate Studies................................................. 50,794
William J. Halliday, Jr., Grand Rapids
2,500 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Law School Building Fund in the Law School..................................... 93,408
Jonathan M Harris Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics......................................... 10,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................  21,164

136



November Meeting, 2005

Evelyn M. Haw Trust
for the Robert and Evelyn Mary Haw Endowment Fund and for the University of
Michigan-Flint...................................................................145,354
Hayden-McNeil Publishing, Inc., Plymouth
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 11,673
Herrington-Fitch Family Foundation, Elk Rapids
for the Residential College Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..............  10,000
Honda of America Manufacturing, Inc., Marysville, Ohio
for support in the Transportation Research Institute......................................... 20,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for supportinthe Medical School..................................................... 39,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 60,000
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music................................................... 10,000
J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York
forthe University Musical Society................................................. 30,000
Jacobs Foundation, Zurich, Switzerland
for support in the Center for Human Growth and Development................................ 50,613
Olive G. Jacobs Estate
for the Rush and Olive Jacobs Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 200,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
forresearch intheMedical School...............................................    81,375
Judaic Studies Support Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 142,583
Henry B. and Jessie W. Keiser Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Henry B. and Jessie W. Keiser Scholarship Endowment Fund........................ 50,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Community Health Scholars Program in the School of Public Health.................... 1,029,337
Kellogg's Corporate Citizenship Fund, Battle Creek
for the Martha Cook Building Fund and for the Sturm Family Endowment Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 10,700
Bithika S. Kheterpal, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 50,00
Kiwanis Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
forthe Child andFamily Life Fund....................................................  16,176
W. Robert Kohorst, Pasadena, California
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School................................ 150,000
Otto F. and Jenny H. Krauss, Raleigh, North Carolina
for the Otto F. and Jenny H. Krauss Outstanding System Studies Fund in the
College ofEngineering.............................................................. 25,000
Joseph A. LaCava Estate
320 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Faye McFarland LaCava Scholarship Fund in the Law School........................ 19,192
Jacquelyn A. Levin Trust
for the Reunion Gift Facilities Fund and the Women's Leadership Council Scholarship
Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and for support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................... 11,000
LLJ/DPJ Family Partners, LTD, Keego Harbor
for the Women's Cross Country Fund in the Department of Athletics.......................... 20,000
Horace F. Lonman Trust
forsupportinthe School of Music................................................... 10,000
Los Angeles Center for Pshcoanalytic Research, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 10,00
Lupus Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
forresearch inthe Medical School..................................................... 37,500
Ethel K. MacNeal Estate
for the Herbert and Ethel MacNeal Endowed Student Aid Fund in the Medical School............ 60,000
Clayton K. Mammel, Denver, Colorado
for research in the Medical School............................................... 25,000
Richard and Jane Manoogian Foundation, Taylor
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School..........................25,000
Oliver Dewey Marcks Foundation, Detroit
for the Oliver Dewey Marcks Michigan League Courtyard Fund........................... 100,000
Bob Maxey Lincoln-Mercury Sales, Inc., Detroit
for the Giving Back to the Community Fund......................................... 26,700
McGregor Fund, Detroit
for the Geriatric Social Work Fellows Program in the School of Social Work................ 161,000

137



November Meeting, 2005

Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
1,000 shares of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc., common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project................................................ 116,630
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Institute for Social Research........................................... 11,897
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for chemical research in the College of Engineering........................................ 25,000
David L. Miller, Grand Blanc
for the David L. and Janet M. Miller Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry.......... 25,000
Pasqualina E. Miller, Bloomfield Hills
for the Pasqualina E. Miller Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
School ofEducation................................................................ 100,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 15,00
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Foundation, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for support in the College of Engineering................................................. 100,000
Edward T. Moen II, Long Beach, California
for supportinthe Law School......................................................... 10,000
Paul Morigi & Company, Inc., Old Greenwich, Connecticut
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 10,000
Ruth Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the School of Public Health............................................... 90,520
Munn Foundation, Inc., Steamboat Springs, Colorado
for the University of Michigan Children's Cancer Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center....... 165,000
Mary C. Murphy Revocable Trust
for the Percy and Mary Murphy Endowed Children's Research Fund in the Medical School......... 20,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
forresearch inthe Medical School...................................................... 88,053
John M. Nannes, Bethesda, Maryland
forsupportintheLaw School........................................................... 25,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Great Neck, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................40,000
Naumann-Etienne Foundation, Orinda, California
for the Naumann-Etienne Foundation Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross
School ofBusiness................................................................. 25,000
Tim O'Day, Hinsdale, Illinois
for the Timothy O'Day Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.............. 25,000
OLSA-SPA, Rivoli, Italy
for support in the Transportation Research Institute......................................... 14,985
Omenn-Darling Family Advised Fund of the Seattle Foundation Trust Fund, Seattle, Washington
for the Prudence and Amnon Rosenthal Endowment Fund and other support for the
University Musical Society...........................................................22,500
William P. O'Neill, Washington, D. C.
for supportinthe Law School......................................................... 10,000
Perrigo Company Foundation, Allegan
for the Perrigo Summer Fellows Program Endowed Fund in the Life Sciences Institute........... 200,000
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 28,200
Polo Fields Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund and for
the Polo Fields Foundation-Wellness Fund in the Medical School.............................. 50,000
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the PPG Undergraduate Support Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,000
Professional Athletes Foundation, Washington, D. C.
forresearch inthe Medial School....................................................... 15,000
Pryor Foundation, Swarthmore, Pennsylvania
for the Millard H. Pryor, Jr., Director's Discretionary Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, andtheArts........................................................25,000
Herbert H. Raiffe, Boca Raton, Florida
for the Scleroderma Research Fund in the Medical School.............................10,000
Dean Richardson Estate
for the Barbara Trytten Richardson Graduate Student Aid Fund in the School of Art and Design...... 25,000
Rockefeller Foundation, New York, New York
for the Study Abroad Program in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 54,000
Erwin Rohde Estate
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 300,000
Jack Roth Charitable Foundation, Los Angles, California
for support in the Department of Athletics............................................ 100,000

138



November Meeting, 2005

Judith Dow Rumeihart, Ann Arbor
1,193 shares of Dow Chemical Company common stock
for the Ice Hockey Seat Scholarship Fund, the Men's Basketball Scholarship
Fund, the Women's Basketball Fund, and other support in the Department of
Athletics, for the Judith Dow Rumelhart Musical Theatre Scholarship,
the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre, and other support in the
School of Music, and for University Musical Society, and WUOM............................ 48,608
Samsung Electronics Company, LTD, Hwasung-City, South Korea
for research in the College of Engineering.............................................. 35,000
Shirley K. Schlafer Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Endowment for Discovery Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.................... 10,000
Mickey Shapiro Charitable Remainder Trust
for the Heinz C. Prechter Bipolar Research Fund and the KEC Building Development
Fund in the Medical School.......................................................... 25,500
Shell Oil Company, Houston, Texas
for research and other support in the College of Engineering, the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 81,500
Simons Foundation, New York, New York
for the University of Michigan Autism/Communications Disorder Center....................... 50,000
Doris J. Smith, Irvine, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 25,000
Soar Technology, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 10,000
Spectrum Controls, Bellevue, Washington
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 30,000
Stamps Family Charitable Foundation, Inc., Miami, Florida
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics and for the Penny Stamps
Program in the School of Art and Design.............................................. 600,000
Surdna Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 10,000
T/J Technologies, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 17,800
TNT EDM, Inc., Plymouth
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 40000
Richard L. Trzcinski, Lutz, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 10,000
Latricia Ann Turner, Atherton, California
4,744 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Latricia Turner Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 180,742
Bob Ufer Quarterback Club, Ann Arbor
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics.................................... 12,000
United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jean and Samuel Frankel Professorship in Rabbinic Literature in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................. 84,101
United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit Schulman Youth Group, Bloomfield Hills
for the Sol Drachler Program Scholarship Fund in the School of Social Work.................... 15,000
United Technologies Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut
for support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...................... 19,100
Karen S. Van Weelden, Los Angeles, California
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............................. 10,000
Susan S. Wagstaff Protected Trust
for support in the School of Art and Design............................................. 20,000
Wallace Foundation, New York, New York
for the Executive Education Leadership Program in the School of Education..................... 75,000
Whitaker Foundation, Rosslyn, Virginia
for fellowships and other support in the College of Engineering............................ 1,348,890
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust
139



November Meeting, 2005

Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to
following donors:
Abbott Laboratories Fund, Abbott Park, Illinois
Actelion Pharmaceutical Us, Inc., South San Francisco,
California
Terence E. Adderly Fund of the Community Foundation for
Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, California
Vinay Ahuja, Ann Arbor
Donald J. Allard, Coto De Caza, California
Anchin, Block & Anchin LLP, New York, New York
Ann Arbor Firefighters Charities, Ann Arbor
Anonymous Donor
Arts Midwest, Minneapolis, Minnesota
AstraZeneca, LP, Wilmington, Delaware
Ramin Behmand, Walnut Creek, California
Silvia Salinas Blemker, Palo Alto, California
Rebecca A. Boylan, Ann Arbor
BP Corporation North America, Inc., Warrenville, Illinois
Robert W. Browne, Ada
Bertie N. Butts III, Midland
Cardinal Health, Las Vegas, Nevada
Christopher Waterhouse Benefit, Shelby Township
Carl Cohen, Ann Arbor
Commerce Realty and Management Company, Grand
Rapids
Consumers Insurance and Investments Corporation,
Montville, New Jersey
Mr. and Mrs. Peter D. Cummings Fund of the Community
Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
Deutsche Bank, New York, New York
Lawrence D. Dickinson, Danville, California
Mary Hunter Dobson, Ann Arbor
Dow Chemical USA Midland Division, Midland
Emerson School, Ann Arbor
Encysive Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Houston, Texas
Dalbert W. Fear, Jr., Ann Arbor
Flint Institute of Arts, Flint
Michael J. Foxx, Lebanon, New Jersey
Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California
Douglas C. Gessner, Northbrook, Illinois
Benn and Kathleen Gilmore Foundation, Plymouth
Glosten Associates, Inc., Seattle, Washington
Peter K. Gould, Chicago, Illinois
Grand Rapids Art Museum, Grand Rapids
Thomas Grias, Caledonia
Guidant, Saint Paul, Minnesota
Harvard Drug Group, Livonia
Jack E. Hill, Venice, Florida
James B. Hudak, Orinda, California
Island Risk Management Associates, Inc., Huntington
Station, New York
Jeffrey M. Kaplan, Washington, D. C.
KLS Martin L.P., Jacksonville, Florida
Raymond E. Knape, Hobe Sound, Florida
W. Henry Koivunen, Livonia
Krupman Family Foundation, Inc., Purchase, New York
Lang-Mekra North America, Ridgeway, South Carolina
Sandra A. L. La Turno, Pinckney
David Baker Lewis, Detroit

$9,999 in value were received from the
Magna International, Inc., Ontario, Canada
Mary L. Marshall, San Antonio, Texas
May Department Stores Company Foundation, Saint Louis,
Missouri
Paul W. McCracken, Ann Arbor
John R. McWilliams, Ann Arbor
Laura B. Medway, Chappaqua, New York
Meredith Corporation Foundation, Des Moines, Iowa
Metropolis Group, Inc., New York, New York
Michelin Americas Research and Development
Corporation, Greenville, South Carolina
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
Agnes M. Miner Trust
James E. Mitchell, Grand Blanc
James E. Mitchell Revocable Living Trust
Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, Jersey City, New
Jersey
Jessie Smith Noyes Foundation, Inc., New York,
New York
Alan J. Olson, Boulder, Colorado
Gregg A. Pane, McLean, Virginia
Theodore C. Papes, Jr., Mount Kisco, New York
Pegasus Group, LLC, Hoboken, New Jersey
Peterson Spring, Southfield
Pfizer, Inc. Pharmaceutical Research Division, Ann Arbor
Plastic Surgery Educational Foundation, Arlington Heights,
Illinois
PPG, Inc., Troy
PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, Tampa, Florida
PSP Ventures, LLC, Bingham Farms
R. C. Dolner, LLC, New York, New York
Rahn & Bodmer, Bankers, Zurich, Switzerland
Bernard E. Reisman, Palm Beach, Florida
David Rizik, Scottsdale, Arizona
Richard D. and Ann C. Rohr Fund of the Community
Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
Barry E. Safir, West Bloomfield
Daniel Salinas, Ann Arbor
Aileen Sedman, Estero, Florida
SG-2, LLC, Evanston, Illinois
Arun K. Sharma, Katy, Texas
Andrea Smith Revocable Trust
Robert Snyder Memorial, Canton
Spectrum Health, Grand Rapids
Edward and Deanne Spiegel Foundation, Inc., Port
Washington, New York
B. Gregory Thompson, Ann Arbor
Tisdale & Associates, LLC, Englewood, Colorado
Robert A. Toigo Foundation, Oakland, California
Richard F. Towner Trust
Dana L. Trier, New York, New York
TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio
Bob Ufer Foundation, Ann Arbor
Susan B. Ullrich Trust
Wachovia Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida
Whitman Family Foundation, Ann Arbor
John R. Worthington, Reno, Nevada
Yazaki North America, Inc., Canton

140



November Meeting, 2005

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Christopher W. Ford, Holly
various pieces of dental equipment for the School of Dentistry
Marvin M. Kirsh, Irvine, California
a collection of Japanese prints and paintings for the University Hospitals
Becky Spencer, Sylvania, Ohio
One Stimmaster FES bike for the University Hospitals
Personnel Actions. Interim Provost Gramlich submitted a number of personnel
actions and personnel reports.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Baik, Jinho, Ph.D., from Assistant Professor of Mathematics, without tenure, to Associate Professor of
Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2006
Bayne, Stephen C., M.S., Ph.D., Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, December 1, 2005
Berry, Paul E., Ph.D., Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Curator and Director of the
University Herbarium, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2006-June 30, 2009
Chen, Yuqing Eugene, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School,
December 1, 2005
Koremenos, Barbara, Associate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, January 1, 2006
Ruan, Yongbin, Ph.D., Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1,
2006
Suny, Ronald Grigor, Ph.D., Charles Tilly Collegiate Professor of Social and Political History and
Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2006
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE OR FULL
PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bardwell, James C.A., Associate Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Associate Professor of
Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, November 1, 2005
Roberts, Joyce E., Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, also appointed Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, without tenure, Medical School, November 1, 2005
Smoyer, William E., Robert C. Kelsch Collegiate Professor of Pediatric Nephrology and Associate
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Associate Professor of Pharmacy, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, December 1, 2005
Stein, Karen F., Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, also appointed
Associate Professor of Psychiatry, without tenure, Medical School, November 1, 2005
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF AND SELECTED
ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Dierker, Steven B., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
extension of a one-year leave, current dates of leave, September 1, 2001-May 31, 2005, time
extension requested, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS AND SELECTED ACADEMIC
ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS.
Effective on December 1, 2005
Establishment of Collegiate Professorship
Richard G. Cornell Collegiate Professorship of Biostatistics, School of Public Health

141



November Meeting, 2005

OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Collegiate Professorships
Kartha, C. Peethambaran, David M. French Professor, UM-Flint, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2008
Reappointments to Endowed Professorships
Fearon, Eric R., Emanuel N. Maisel Professor of Oncology, Medical School, July 1, 2005-August 31,
2010
Voorhees, John J., Duncan 0. and Ella M. Poth Distinguished Professor of Dermatology, Medical
School, January 20, 2005-August 31, 2010
Woolliscroft, James O., Lyle C. Roll Professor of Medicine, Medical School, January 1, 2006-August 31,
2011
Correction to Regents Communication
Schodel, Ruth S., D.R. Schackelton Bailey Collegiate Professor of Greek and Latin, and Professor of
Greek and Latin, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2010, previously reported as D.R. Schackelton Collegiate Professor of Greek and
Latin, and Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Other Transactions
Antonucci, Toni C., Associate Dean for Academic Programs and Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham School
of Graduate Studies, also appointed Elizabeth M. Douvan Collegiate Professor of Psychology,
Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1,
2006-July 31, 2009
Frost, Carolyn O., Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Professor of Information, with tenure,
School of Information, November 1, 2005-September 30, 2006
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective on dates indicated
School of Nursing Executive Committee
Barkauskas, Violet H., November 18, 2005-June 30, 2006, vice SeonAe Yeo, on sabbatical leave
Cimprich, Bernadine E., November 18, 2005-June 30, 2008, vice Carol J. Boyd, term expired
Yeo, Seonae, November 18, 2005-June 30, 2008, vice Bonnie M. Hagerty, term expired
Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies Executive Board
Stillman, Amy K., November 18, 2005-August 31, 2007, vice Susan E. Alcock, leaving the University
Military Officer Education Program Executive Committee
Thompson, Kyle J., student representative, retroactive September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006, vice Abigail
R. Lirtzman, term expired
Zang, Jonathan M., student representative, retroactive September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006, vice
Amanda B. Martin, term expired
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted a number of personnel actions.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Bandyopadhyay, Debalina, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physical Sciences, UM-Dearbom College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Bassett, James C., M. Arch., Lecturer I in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Bathish, Melissa A., M.S., Lecturer I in Health Promotion and Risk Reduction Programs, School of
Nursing, January 1-April 2006
Benromodhane, Saida, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Bernard, Kerri A., M.S., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006

142



November Meeting, 2005

Bobkov, Konstantin V., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Bogdan, Albert A., M.B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in Business, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
November 1-December 31, 2005
Brown-Worden, Kathleen V., Master, Lecturer I in Education, UM-Dearbom School of Education,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Cares, Cornelia, M.A., Lecturer I in Writing, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Carter, E. Follett, M.B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in Marketing, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
January 1-February 28, 2006
Chavez Mejia, Virginia, B.A., Lecturer I in Anthropology, International Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Davies, Douglas D., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Social Work, School of Social Work, September 1-December
31, 2005
Donat, Gokce, B.S., Lecturer I in Natural Sciences, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Edozie, Rita, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Africana Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Egnatios, Edward S., M.S.W., Intermittent Lecturer in Social Work, School of Social Work, September
1-December 31, 2005
Foy, Thomas A., M.A., Lecturer I in Humanities, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Fuller, Boyd W., M.Sc., Lecturer I in Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Goodfriend, Karin, M.P.P., Lecturer I in Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Humphrey, John H., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2006
Kruk, Margaret E., M.D., Lecturer III in Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
Logan, Elizabeth L., M.M., Lecturer I in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Margomenou, Despina, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1-December 31, 2005
Mastati, Yulisa, B.A., Lecturer I in Residential College, International Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
McGillivary, Michael P., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
McNeal, Charlea T., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Miller, Bonnie S., M.S.W., Lecturer I in Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, October
1-31, 2005
Rosa, Anne K., M.S., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1-December 31, 2005
Senaratne, Upul U., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Natural Sciences, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Sherman, Robert J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Sikkenga, Karl W., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Education, School of Education, September 1, 2005-April 30,
2006
Soegito, Sigit Bin, B.A., Lecturer I in Residential College, International Institute, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Stein, Howard, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Afro-American and African Studies, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Swartz, Lee M., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Business, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, March
1-April 30, 2006
Thon, Jenni L., M.S., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1-December 31, 2005
Trandafirescu, Anca, M.Arch., Lecturer I in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Vitale, Marie A., J.D., Lecturer I in Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
Ward, William J., M.S., Intermittent Lecturer in Business, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, January
1-April 30, 2006
Wentland, Diane, M.S., Lecturer I in Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology, September 1-December 31,
2005

143



November Meeting, 2005

Wilczynski, Cathleen S., M.S., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2005-April 30,
2006
Zitzewitz, Barbara S., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Chemistry, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1-December 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE
ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Pelletier, Beverly B., Lecturer I in French, Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, family medical leave, September 23-December 18, 2005, personal medical leave, December
19-31, 2005
Richards, Sharon M., Lecturer IV in Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies,
personal leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS'
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective December 21, 2005
Struble, Laura M., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Nursing, School of Nursing, resigned
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Benedict, Mary B., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, October 3,
2005-October 2, 2006
Brooks, Lori, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African Studies and Assistant Professor
of American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31,
2008
Cavalieri, Renzo, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Del Vecchio, Domitilla, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, January 1, 2006-May 31, 2008
Kubarych, Kevin J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Kucukarsian, Suzan N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, October 1,
2005-September 30, 2006
Oldendorf, Ann L., Clinical Assistant Professor of Urology, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August
31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS,
OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Kasischke, Laura K., from Lecturer III in Residential College and Lecturer III in English Language and
Literature to Assistant Professor of Residential College and Assistant Professor of English
Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31,
2008
Kelly, Aine M., from Clinical Lecturer in Radiology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology,
Medical School, October 1, 2005-September 30, 2006
La Marca, Frank, from Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery to Assistant Professor of Neurosurgery and
Assistant Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Pachikara, Annie C., from Assistant Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design, to Assistant
Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design, and Assistant Professor of Architecture
and Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, September
1, 2005-May 31, 2008
Patel, Sanjeevkumar R., from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2005-June 30, 2012

144



November Meeting, 2005

Pipe, Kevin P., from Assistant Professor of Mechanical Engineering to Assistant Professor of Mechanical
Engineering and Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bartlett, Robert H., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Berent, Stanley, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Department of Psychiatry, Professor of Psychology,
Department of Neurology, Medical School, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor Emeritus of Psychology, School of Public Health,
July 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Brandwin, Marvin A., Assistant Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Brewer, George J., Morton S. and Henrietta K. Sellner Professor of Human Genetics, Professor Emeritus
of Human Genetics, and Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, October 1,
2005-September 30, 2006
Burkel, William E., Professor Emeritus of Anatomical Sciences, Medical School, September 1,
2005-April 30, 2006
Cameron, Oliver G., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Undergraduate Education, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-August
31, 2006
Casey, Kenneth L., Professor Emeritus of Molecular and Integrative Physiology and Professor Emeritus
of Neurology, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Castelli, Walter A., Professor Emeritus of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School, July 1,
2005-June 30, 2006
Christensen, A. Kent, Professor Emeritus of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Medical School, September 1,
2005-August 31, 2006
Curtis, George C., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31,
2006
Fajans, Stefan S., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August
31, 2006
Maehr, Martin L., Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, and Professor Emeritus of
Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, August 1, 2005-July 31, 2006
Matthews, Larry S., Professor Emeritus of Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, October 8,
2005-October 7, 2006
Pek, Sumer, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31,
2006
Pitt, Bertram, Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, September
1-December 31, 2005
Schottenfeld, David, Professor Emeritus of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, and Professor
Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Sisson, James C., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August
31, 2006
Stross, Jeoffrey K., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Williams, Charles H., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, July 1, 2005-June
30, 2006
Young, Ernest P., Professor Emeritus of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January
1-April 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR
INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bardenstein, Carol B., Associate Professor of Arabic Languages and Cultures, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Carpenter, Bogdana, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2004
Driscoll, James F., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Dunca, Argus A., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
personal leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006

145



November Meeting, 2005

Friedman, Bruce, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough, September 1,
2005-April 30, 2006
Fuller, A. Oveta, Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, with tenure, Medical School,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Gradwohl, Steven E., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, medical leave, March
1-April 15, 2005
Hook, Peter E., Professor of Indo-Aryan Languages, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retirement furlough, September 1,
2005-December 31, 2006
Huesmann, L. Rowell, Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,
2006
James, David A., Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Martin, David C., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, Professor of
Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, and Professor of Biomedical
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
McCauley, Laurie K., William K. and Mary Anne Nijjar Professor of Periodontics, Professor of
Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical
School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Porter, James I., Professor of Greek, Latin, and Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Rees, Riley, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-March 31,
2006
Rosenthal, Judy V., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Rush, Jon N., Professor of Art, School of Art and Design, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31,
2006
Schellenberg, Kathryn L., Associate Professor of Sociology, Anthropology, and Criminal Justice, with
tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Sharp, Robert R., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, January 1, 2006-May 31, 2008
Squatriti, Paolo, Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Romance
Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, research
leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Vaillant, Derek W., Associate Professor of Communication Studies, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1-December 31, 2005, and sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Yoshihama, Mieko, Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, scholarly
activity leave, September 1, 2005-March 31, 2006
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF
ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Somers, Margaret R., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor of History, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, September 1, 2005-January 31,
2006, previously reported as sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Gong, Siew-Ging, Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, September 30, 2005
Hyde, Mildred K., Assistant Professor of Management Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
December 31, 2005
Retired
Keyes, P. Landis, Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, with tenure, Medical School,
August 31, 2005

146



November Meeting, 2005

Term Completed
Beck, Larry W., Assistant Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2005
El-Fouly, Mohamed H., Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
September 30, 2005
Supiano, Mark A., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, September 30, 2005
CANCELLATION OF PREVIOUSLY APPROVED REGENTS COMMUNICATION
Ralston, Steven M., cancellation of communication submitted and approved in the September 2004
Regents' Meeting, appointing Steven M. Ralston as Chair, Department of Communication,
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 2 retiring
faculty members.
Martha S. Hill, Ph.D., research professor in the Survey Research Center, Institute
for Social Research, retired from active faculty status on October 31, 2005.
Professor Hill received her B.A. degree from the University of North Carolina in
1971 and her M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Michigan in 1974 and
1977, respectively. From 1975-76 she was an instructor at Eastern Michigan University.
She joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1977 as an assistant research scientist
in the Survey Research Center at the Institute for Social Research, and was promoted to
associate research scientist in 1984 and senior research scientist (research professor) in
1997.
Within the Institute for Social Research, Professor Hill's research has focused on
family economics, family structure issues, poverty and inequality, and intergenerational
influences and assistance. From 2002-05, Professor Hill served as director of the
Detroit Area Study. She was a member of the Survey Research Center's Senior Staff
Advisory Committee from 1994-96 and was a member of its Standing Committee on
Diversity from 2002-04. Professor Hill served on the Senate Assembly's Committee on
the Economic Status of the Faculty from 1993-94.
Professor Hill has received many honors during the course of her career. In 1996
she received a visiting fellowship to take part in the British Household Study at the
University of Essex in England. In 1997, Professor Hill spent a year at the Gothenburg
University in Sweden as Malmsten guest professor, and in 2002 she was a Fulbright
Senior Specialist in New Zealand.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Martha S. Hill
research professor emerita.
P. Landis Keyes, Ph.D., professor of molecular and integrative physiology and
research professor in the Reproductive Sciences Program, retired from active faculty
status on August 31, 2005.
A native of North Carolina, Professor Keyes received his B.S. (1960) and M.S.
(1962) degrees from North Carolina State University and his Ph.D. degree (1966) from
the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He did postdoctoral work at Harvard
Medical School from 1966-68 and served on the faculty of Albany Medical College
from 1968-72. Professor Keyes joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1972 as
assistant professor in the Department of Pathology and was promoted to associate
professor in 1975. In 1974 he was also appointed assistant professor in the Department
of Physiology, and was promoted to associate professor in 1981 and professor in 1984.
He was an associate research scientist in the Center for Human Growth and

147



November Meeting, 2005

Development from 1981-84 and was appointed research scientist in the Reproductive
Sciences Program in 1996.
Professor Keyes' research and scholarly activities have focused on reproductive
endocrinology, specifically ovarian function. He has nearly 100 publications and is
well known for his work on the ovarian corpus luteum. An important member of the
teaching faculty, he has taught courses in reproductive science, endocrinology, and
gastrointestinal physiology to medical, graduate, and undergraduate students,
coordinated reproductive and endocrine coursework within the medical curriculum, and
played a major role in organizing teaching sponsored by the Reproductive Sciences
Program. He served on 30 Ph.D. thesis committees, and supervised and mentored a
number of students and postdoctoral fellows.
Professor Keyes served on a number of departmental committees, as chair of the
Physiology Graduate Committee, and as acting director of the Reproductive Sciences
Program. He was editor or editorial board member for a number of journals, including
Endocrinology, and was president of the Society for the Study of Reproduction in
2002-2003.
The Regents now salute this distinguished researcher and educator for his
dedicated service by naming P. Landis Keyes professor emeritus of molecular and
integrative physiology and research professor emeritus.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents
this month.
Degrees. President Coleman submitted recommendations for the following
individuals to received honorary degrees: Elizabeth Catlett, sculptor and printmaker
(Doctor of Fine Arts); Freeman Dyson, physicist and science writer (Doctor of
Science); William Richardson, academic leader and W.K. Kellogg Foundation president
(Doctor of Laws); and Samuel Zell, businessman and philanthropist (Doctor of Laws).
She announced that Dr. Dyson would serve as speaker at the Winter 2005
commencement.
The December 2005 Doctoral Degree List was also submitted for approval.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Fudo Capital, L.P.; ChrysCapital IV, LLC)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $20 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Fudo Capital, L.P., and $15 million from the Long Term Portfolio to ChrysCapital IV,
LLC.
State Building Authority Financing of University of Michigan Projects in Ann
Arbor and Dearborn Campuses
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the following actions with respect to each of three University
projects to be financed by the State Building Authority (SBA): the Literature, Science
and the Arts Building Renovation and the Engineering Laboratory Building Addition on

148



November Meeting, 2005

the Ann Arbor Campus, and the Science Building Addition on the Dearborn Campus.
The actions taken include approval for each project of resolutions (see Appendices, pp.
151-161) authorizing the appropriate officers to:
* On or prior to the SBA's issuance of commercial paper notes, execute the
Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement and Bill of Sale for
each project.
* At or near completion of each project and prior to the issuance of the SBA's
bonds, execute the respective lease, convey title to the property, and execute
any necessary easement agreements required for the financing of the project.
* Execute any other documentation required for the financing of the projects
by the SBA.
Regents Deitch and Brandon were absent, and Regent Taylor was not present for
the vote.
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building Renovation
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building
Renovation project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers University Hospital Chiller
Replacement - FY 2006
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
University Hospital Chiller Replacement - FY 2006 project as described in the Regents
Communication, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction
contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
FY 2007 State Operating Request, Ann Arbor Campus
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the annual operating request to the state for the University of
Michigan Ann Arbor campus for FY 2007.
FY 2007 State Operating Request, University of Michigan-Dearborn
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the annual operating request to the state for the University of
Michigan-Dearborn campus for FY 2007.
Regent Taylor was away from the table for this and the remaining votes.
FY 2007 State Operating Request, University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the annual operating request to the state for the University of
Michigan-Flint campus for FY 2007.

149



November Meeting, 2005

New Dual Degree Program to be offered by the University of Michigan-Dearborn
School of Management (Master of Business Administration and Master of Science in
Finance)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved a new dual degree program ("Master of Business Administration
and Master of Science in Finance") to be offered by the University of
Michigan-Dearborn School of Management.
Change in Name of Department of Chemistry at the University of Michigan-Flint
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved a change in the name of the Department of Chemistry in the
UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences to the Department of Chemistry and
Biochemistry.
Public Comments
The Public Comments session began at 4:40 p.m. The Regents heard comments
from the following individuals, on the topics indicated: Jim Mogensen, citizen, on
constructive criticism of the University of Michigan Health System; Richard Bernstein,
member of the Wayne State University Board of Governors, Deedee Varick, student,
and Rachael Jankowski, student, on support for a regional mass transit system serving
Detroit Metro Airport; Alice Ralph, alumna and member of the Washtenaw County
Historic District Commission, on the Gordon Hall Historic District; and David Boyle,
alumnus, on why the University should not invest in Sudan. The following students
spoke on amending the University's non-discrimination bylaw to include "gender
identity or expression;" Stephen Rassi, Anna Paris, Sebastian Colon-Otero, Andrea
Knittel, Mary Jo Adgate, and Andre Wilson.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 5:35 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for December 15, 2005.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretary of the University

150



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX A

RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION ASSURANCE AGREEMENT, A
CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY, A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT,
IF NECESSARY, FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN - ANN ARBOR
CENTRAL CAMPUS RENOVATIONS PHASE II
LITERATURE, SCIENCE AND THE ARTS BUILDING
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a
form of construction and completion assurance agreement (the "Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement"), by and among the State Building Authority (the
"Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of the University of
Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "Educational Institution"),
providing for the rights, duties and obligations of the Authority, the State and the
Educational Institution with respect to the Educational Institution's Ann Arbor Central
Campus Renovations Phase II Literature, Science and the Arts Building and the site therefor
(the "Facility") during the construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility and prior
to the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (b) the conveyance of the Facility to the
Authority, (c) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the Authority, the Educational Institution
and the State, for the purpose of leasing the Facility to the State and the Educational
Institution and (d) an easement and/or other agreement (the "Easement Agreement") between
the Authority and the Educational Institution, if necessary and/or desirable in connection
with access, parking, utilities, pedestrians, encroachments, and/or other matters pertaining to
the interactions between the Facility and real property owned by the Educational Institution,
and (ii) providing for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and pursuant to the
provisions of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the
purpose of acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging,
operating, mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and
facilities, and sites therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher
education created pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution
of 1963 (the "State Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been maintained and created pursuant
to Sections 4 and 5 of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority
finance the acquisition, construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in
consideration of (i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter
upon the site of the Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation
and/or equipping, (ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the
oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and (iii) the Educational
Institution conveying the Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion,
and the Authority is willing to provide such financing in consideration of the items described
above; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority acquire the
Facility on or prior to the date of its completion, and lease the same to the State and the
Educational Institution, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and lease the
same to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the Educational Institution, the Facility
will be constructed by the Educational Institution on behalf of the Authority, and it is
intended that the Site and the Facility be conveyed to the Authority by the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to
the Educational Institution and the State is necessary in order for the State and the
Educational Institution to carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide
necessary services to the people of the State as mandated or permitted by constitution and
law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical
means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the Educational Institution; and

151



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX A

WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the
Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of the
Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in
each house and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the
Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized
officer and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Educational Institution authorize and
approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from
a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that
the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future
use certain easements through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution
will require an agreement to share a common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require
an easement over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority
has sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, and/or
(v) the Authority and/or the Educational Institution will require other easements and/or
agreements pertaining to the Facility and/or real property owned by the Educational
Institution (such as, but without limitation, easements and/or agreements pertaining to
pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or encroachments), then in order to meet any such
requirement, it may be necessary for an authorized officer of the Educational Institution to
approve an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements to provide for such easements
and/or agreements;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN THAT:
1   The plans for the Facility, as filed with the Educational Institution, are hereby
approved.
2.   The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for and on
behalf of the Educational Institution. Such officer is hereby authorized to approve such
changes in and modifications to the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement as
do not materially adversely affect the Educational Institution.
3.   The conveyance of the Site and the Facility to the Authority in accordance with
the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement is hereby approved, and the then
seated President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Educational Institution are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver a warranty
deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such
conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.
4.   The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in
substantially the form attached as Exhibit C, and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver the Lease in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C for and on behalf of the
Educational Institution and such officer is hereby designated as an authorized officer of the
Educational Institution for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officer is hereby
authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially

152



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX A

5.  If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and if the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution determines that (i) the
Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the
Educational Institution will require for future use certain easements through the Facility,
(iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will require an agreement to share a
common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in
connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, and/or (v) the Authority and/or the
Educational Institution will require other easements and/or agreements pertaining to the
Facility and/or real property owned by the Educational Institution (such as, but without
limitation, easements and/or agreements pertaining to pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or
encroachments), then such officer is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver
an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements if necessary in order to meet any such
requirement.
6.   The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational
Institution is hereby authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions,
including, without limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority
and the State and signing certificates, documents or other instruments, on behalf of the
Educational Institution, as he deems necessary or desirable under the circumstances to
accomplish the purposes of the transactions authorized in this Resolution.
7.   The Educational Institution further confirms its obligations to perform the duties
and obligations specified in the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement (only
upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and the Lease
(only upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and
acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the
Educational Institution without consideration upon termination of the Lease.  The
Educational Institution hereby recognizes that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if
title to the Facility would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
8.   The Educational Institution recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of
the Facility in an amount not in excess of $14,769,231.
9.   All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
10. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.

153



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX B

RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION ASSURANCE AGREEMENT, A
CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY, A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT,
IF NECESSARY, FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN - DEARBORN
HUBBARD DRIVE PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AND EDUCATION BUILDING
ACQUISITION (PHASE II) ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE BUILDING RENOVATIONS
ENGINEERING LABORATORY BUILDING ADDITION
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a
form of construction and completion assurance agreement (the "Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement"), by and among the State Building Authority (the
"Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of the University of
Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "Educational Institution"),
providing for the rights, duties and obligations of the Authority, the State and the
Educational Institution with respect to the Educational Institution's Dearborn Hubbard Drive
Professional Training and Education Building Acquisition (Phase II) Engineering and
Science Building Renovations Engineering Laboratory Building Addition and the site
therefor (the "Facility") during the construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility
and prior to the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (b) the conveyance of the
Facility to the Authority, (c) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the Authority, the
Educational Institution and the State, for the purpose of leasing the Facility to the State and
the Educational Institution and (d) an easement and/or other agreement (the "Easement
Agreement") between the Authority and the Educational Institution, if necessary and/or
desirable in connection with access, parking, utilities, pedestrians, encroachments, and/or
other matters pertaining to the interactions between the Facility and real property owned by
the Educational Institution, and (ii) providing for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and pursuant to the
provisions of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the
purpose of acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging,
operating, mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and
facilities, and sites therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher
education created pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution
of 1963 (the "State Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been maintained and created pursuant
to Sections 4 and 5 of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority
finance the acquisition, construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in
consideration of (i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter
upon the site of the Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation
and/or equipping, (ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the
oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and (iii) the Educational
Institution conveying the Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion,
and the Authority is willing to provide such financing in consideration of the items described
above; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority acquire the
Facility on or prior to the date of its completion, and lease the same to the State and the
Educational Institution, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and lease the
same to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the Educational Institution, the Facility
will be constructed by the Educational Institution on behalf of the Authority, and it is
intended that the Site and the Facility be conveyed to the Authority by the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to
the Educational Institution and the State is necessary in order for the State and the
Educational Institution to carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide
necessary services to the people of the State as mandated or permitted by constitution and

154



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX B

law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical
means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the
Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of the
Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in
each house and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the
Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized
officer and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Educational Institution authorize and
approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from
a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that
the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future
use certain easements through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution
will require an agreement to share a common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require
an easement over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority
has sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, and/or
(v) the Authority and/or the Educational Institution will require other easements and/or
agreements pertaining to the Facility and/or real property owned by the Educational
Institution (such as, but without limitation, easements and/or agreements pertaining to
pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or encroachments), then in order to meet any such
requirement, it may be necessary for an authorized officer of the Educational Institution to
approve an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements to provide for such easements
and/or agreements;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN THAT:
11. The plans for the Facility, as filed with the Educational Institution, are hereby
approved.
2.   The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for and on
behalf of the Educational Institution. Such officer is hereby authorized to approve such
changes in and modifications to the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement as
do not materially adversely affect the Educational Institution.
3.  The conveyance of the Site and the Facility to the Authority in accordance with
the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement is hereby approved, and the then
seated President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Educational Institution are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver a warranty
deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such
conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.
4.   The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in
substantially the form attached as Exhibit C, and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver the Lease in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C for and on behalf of the
Educational Institution and such officer is hereby designated as an authorized officer of the
Educational Institution for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officer is hereby
authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially
alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action
submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officer is not hereby
authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the
description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of the Educational Institution
contained in the Lease approved herein. The Educational Institution hereby determines that
the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the authorized officer
is hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts

155



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX B

determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $847,000 in any
12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
5.  If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and if the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution determines that (i) the
Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the
Educational Institution will require for future use certain easements through the Facility,
(iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will require an agreement to share a
common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in
connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, and/or (v) the Authority and/or the
Educational Institution will require other easements and/or agreements pertaining to the
Facility and/or real property owned by the Educational Institution (such as, but without
limitation, easements and/or agreements pertaining to pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or
encroachments), then such officer is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver
an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements if necessary in order to meet any such
requirement.
6.   The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational
Institution is hereby authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions,
including, without limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority
and the State and signing certificates, documents or other instruments, on behalf of the
Educational Institution, as he deems necessary or desirable under the circumstances to
accomplish the purposes of the transactions authorized in this Resolution.
7.   The Educational Institution further confirms its obligations to perform the duties
and obligations specified in the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement (only
upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and the Lease
(only upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and
acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the
Educational Institution without consideration upon termination of the Lease.   The
Educational Institution hereby recognizes that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if
title to the Facility would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
8.   The Educational Institution recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of
the Facility in an amount not in excess of $9,450,000.
9.   All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
10. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.

156



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX C

RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
APPROVING A CONSTRUCTION AND COMPLETION ASSURANCE AGREEMENT,
A CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY, A LEASE AND AN EASEMENT AGREEMENT,
IF NECESSARY, FOR THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN - DEARBORN
HUBBARD DRIVE PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AND EDUCATION BUILDING
ACQUISITION (PHASE II) ENGINEERING AND SCIENCE BUILDING RENOVATIONS
SCIENCE BUILDING ADDITION
A RESOLUTION of the Regents of the University of Michigan (i) approving (a) a
form of construction and completion assurance agreement (the "Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement"), by and among the State Building Authority (the
"Authority"), the State of Michigan (the "State") and the Regents of the University of
Michigan, a Michigan constitutional body corporate (the "Educational Institution"),
providing for the rights, duties and obligations of the Authority, the State and the
Educational Institution with respect to the Educational Institution's Dearborn Hubbard Drive
Professional Training and Education Building Acquisition (Phase II) Engineering and
Science Building Renovations Science Building Addition and the site therefor (the
"Facility") during the construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility and prior to
the conveyance of the Facility to the Authority, (b) the conveyance of the Facility to the
Authority, (c) a lease (the "Lease"), by and among the Authority, the Educational Institution
and the State, for the purpose of leasing the Facility to the State and the Educational
Institution and (d) an easement and/or other agreement (the "Easement Agreement") between
the Authority and the Educational Institution, if necessary and/or desirable in connection
with access, parking, utilities, pedestrians, encroachments, and/or other matters pertaining to
the interactions between the Facility and real property owned by the Educational Institution,
and (ii) providing for other matters related thereto.
WHEREAS, the Authority has been incorporated under and pursuant to the
provisions of Act No. 183, Public Acts of Michigan, 1964, as amended ("Act 183"), for the
purpose of acquiring, constructing, furnishing, equipping, owning, improving, enlarging,
operating, mortgaging and maintaining buildings, necessary parking structures or lots and
facilities, and sites therefor, for the use of the State, including institutions of higher
education created pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the Michigan Constitution
of 1963 (the "State Constitution"), or any of its agencies; and
WHEREAS, the Educational Institution has been maintained and created pursuant
to Sections 4 and 5 of Article 8 of the State Constitution; and
WHEREAS, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority
finance the acquisition, construction, renovation and/or equipping of the Facility in
consideration of (i) the Educational Institution granting a license to the Authority to enter
upon the site of the Facility (the "Site") in order to undertake such construction, renovation
and/or equipping, (ii) the Educational Institution undertaking on behalf of the Authority the
oversight of such construction, renovation and/or equipping and (iii) the Educational
Institution conveying the Facility to the Authority on or prior to the date of its completion,
and the Authority is willing to provide such financing in consideration of the items described
above; and
WHEREAS, in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement, the State and the Educational Institution desire that the Authority acquire the
Facility on or prior to the date of its completion, and lease the same to the State and the
Educational Institution, and the Authority is willing to acquire the Facility and lease the
same to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, the Site is presently owned by the Educational Institution, the Facility
will be constructed by the Educational Institution on behalf of the Authority, and it is
intended that the Site and the Facility be conveyed to the Authority by the Educational
Institution; and
WHEREAS, the acquisition of the Facility by the Authority for use by and lease to
the Educational Institution and the State is necessary in order for the State and the
Educational Institution to carry out necessary governmental functions and to provide
necessary services to the people of the State as mandated or permitted by constitution and

157



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX C

law, and the use of Act 183 to accomplish such acquisition represents the most practical
means to that end at the lowest cost to the State and the Educational Institution; and
WHEREAS, Section 7 of Act 183 provides that the Lease shall be approved by the
Authority, by the State Administrative Board of the State and by concurrent resolution of the
Legislature of the State concurred in by a majority of the members elected to and serving in
each house and if the Lease is for an institution of higher education existing or created
pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or 7 of Article 8 of the State Constitution, then in addition, the
Lease shall be authorized by the institution of higher education and signed by its authorized
officer and, accordingly, it is necessary that the Educational Institution authorize and
approve the Lease; and
WHEREAS, if it is determined that (i) the Authority will require an easement from
a public road to the Facility over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that
the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the Educational Institution will require for future
use certain easements through the Facility, (iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution
will require an agreement to share a common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require
an easement over real property owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority
has sufficient parking available in connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, and/or
(v) the Authority and/or the Educational Institution will require other easements and/or
agreements pertaining to the Facility and/or real property owned by the Educational
Institution (such as, but without limitation, easements and/or agreements pertaining to
pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or encroachments), then in order to meet any such
requirement, it may be necessary for an authorized officer of the Educational Institution to
approve an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements to provide for such easements
and/or agreements;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN THAT:
1   The plans for the Facility, as filed with the Educational Institution, are hereby
approved.
2.   The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A, and the
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver, at the appropriate time, the Construction and
Completion Assurance Agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A for and on
behalf of the Educational Institution. Such officer is hereby authorized to approve such
changes in and modifications to the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement as
do not materially adversely affect the Educational Institution.
3.   The conveyance of the Site and the Facility to the Authority in accordance with
the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement is hereby approved, and the then
seated President and the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Educational Institution are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver a warranty
deed in substantially the form attached as Exhibit B and bills of sale to accomplish such
conveyance in such form as may be from time to time approved by such officers.
4.   The Educational Institution hereby authorizes and approves the Lease in
substantially the form attached as Exhibit C, and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of the Educational Institution is hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver the Lease in accordance with the Construction and Completion Assurance
Agreement and in substantially the form attached as Exhibit C for and on behalf of the
Educational Institution and such officer is hereby designated as an authorized officer of the
Educational Institution for purposes of Section 7 of Act 183. Such officer is hereby
authorized to approve such changes in and modifications to the Lease as do not materially
alter the substance and intent thereof as expressed in the Lease and the request for action
submitted to the Regents in connection therewith; provided such officer is not hereby
authorized to approve a change in the Lease with respect to the range of rental, the
description of the Facility or the material financial obligations of the Educational Institution
contained in the Lease approved herein. The Educational Institution hereby determines that
the maximum rental in the amount described below is reasonable and the authorized officer
is hereby authorized to approve in the Lease, as executed, rental in annual amounts

158



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX C

determined by the final appraisal of "True Rental," but not exceeding $646,000 in any
12-month period and a lease term of not exceeding 40 years.
5.  If in connection with the entering into of the Lease, and if the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational Institution determines that (i) the
Authority will require an easement from a public road to the Facility over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has access to the Facility, (ii) the
Educational Institution will require for future use certain easements through the Facility,
(iii) the Authority and the Educational Institution will require an agreement to share a
common structural wall, (iv) the Authority will require an easement over real property
owned by the Educational Institution so that the Authority has sufficient parking available in
connection with the reasonable use of the Facility, and/or (v) the Authority and/or the
Educational Institution will require other easements and/or agreements pertaining to the
Facility and/or real property owned by the Educational Institution (such as, but without
limitation, easements and/or agreements pertaining to pedestrian traffic, utility lines, and/or
encroachments), then such officer is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver
an Easement Agreement or Easement Agreements if necessary in order to meet any such
requirement.
6.   The Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Educational
Institution is hereby authorized and directed to take or cause to be taken all other actions,
including, without limitation, making requests of and approving requests from the Authority
and the State and signing certificates, documents or other instruments, on behalf of the
Educational Institution, as he deems necessary or desirable under the circumstances to
accomplish the purposes of the transactions authorized in this Resolution.
7.   The Educational Institution further confirms its obligations to perform the duties
and obligations specified in the Construction and Completion Assurance Agreement (only
upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and the Lease
(only upon its execution by the authorized officer of the Educational Institution) and
acknowledges that such obligations do not depend upon passage of title to the Facility to the
Educational Institution without consideration upon termination of the Lease.   The
Educational Institution hereby recognizes that it would execute and deliver the Lease even if
title to the Facility would not pass upon termination of the Lease.
8.   The Educational Institution recognizes that the Authority shall pay for costs of
the Facility in an amount not in excess of $7,200,000.
9.   All ordinances, resolutions and orders or parts thereof in conflict with the
provisions of this Resolution are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
10. This Resolution shall be effective immediately upon its adoption.

159



NOVEMBER MEETING, 2005 - APPENDIX C

160



DECEMBER MEETING, 2005
The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
December 15, 2005
The Regents convened at 2:10 p.m. in the155 Regents' Room. Present were
President Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, Newman, Richner, Taylor,
and White. Also present were Vice President and Secretary Churchill, Interim Provost
Gramlich, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President
Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President
Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, Vice President Ulaby, and Vice President
Wilbanks. Regent McGowan arrived at 2:50 p.m.; Regent White left the meeting at
3:00 p.m.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order and welcomed everyone to the final
Board of Regents' Meeting of 2005.
President Coleman commented on the presentations to be made at the meeting.
She also announced that Chancellor Mestas had recently made a generous gift of
$50,000 toward scholarship support for UM-Flint students, in addition to a $500,000
bequest for the Juan E. Mestas Scholarship. She thanked him for his generosity.
President Coleman also noted that this would be the last meeting for Vice
President Fawwaz Ulaby, who is stepping down after seven years as vice president for
research. She thanked him for his leadership and a round of applause followed.
President Coleman commented that the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC) would
be returning to campus October 24 through November 12, 2006. Ann Arbor will be the
only venue in the United States where the RSC will be performing any of the plays in
its complete cycle of Shakespeare's plays it will be doing that year.
Regent Maynard commented about how much Chancellor Mestas' gift meant to
the University of Michigan-Flint campus, and that it speaks to the great leadership he
has provided.
Presentation: "Nursing at Michigan: It Makes All the Difference"
President Coleman introduced Dean Ada Sue Hinshaw, who made a presentation
about current programs and activities at the School of Nursing. She noted that the
Bachelor of Science in Nursing program has increased from 456 students in 2001 to 615
in 2005, and that the "Accelerated Second Career Program," which began in 2004 with
24 students, doubled in size in 2005. Dean Hinshaw reported that the school ranks third
nationally, its B.S.N.-Ph.D. program is one of the top programs in the country, and
research productivity has dramatically increased in recent years. The two major
challenges faced by the school are recruitment and retention of faculty and the need for
expansion and/or renovation to meet current needs for space.
Following the presentation, Dean Hinshaw responded to questions from President
Coleman and the Regents. President Coleman then called on Vice President Harper to
provide an overview of the activities of the Division of Student Affairs.

161



December Meeting, 2005

Division of Student Affairs Overview
Vice President Harper described the mission and functions of the Division of
Student Affairs (DSA), noting that the mission statement includes commitment to
students' learning, development of the whole student, a diverse campus community,
partnerships with schools and colleges, and student transformation. She described the
varied functions of the DSA and noted that the work of the division is informed by
theory and research, most of which is concerned with systematic change in students
over time while in college. She described the characteristics of the four generations that
can currently be found on college campuses, and noted that each of these has a common
set of attitudes, beliefs and behaviors, and location in the historical continuum. She
described the general traits of current undergraduate students, who are members of the
"Millenium" generation, and specific characteristics of Michigan undergraduates,
noting that these data inform the division's program offerings and other student life
initiatives.
She concluded that the challenge is to "invite students to bring their life
experiences into the learning process, to reflect upon their own and others' perspectives,
to expand their viewpoint, and to apply new understanding to their lives. At Michigan,
we also aspire to have our students live the Michigan difference by making a
contribution to their university community and also by changing the world in which
they live."
Following some discussion, President Coleman called on Steve Grafton, director
of the Alumni Association.
Alumni Update
Mr. Grafton noted that one of the biggest factors in alumni involvement is their
experience as students. He provided an update on what he has been hearing from
alumni and the kinds of feedback they give about the University and other issues that
are important to them. Mr. Grafton also commented that for some time the Alumni
Association has wanted to develop relationships with alumni who live overseas and that
President Coleman's recent visit to China provided the impetus for the association to
enhance its relationship with alumni in China. The Alumni Association plans to return
to China regularly to further develop this relationship. He praised President Coleman
for her leadership in supporting global outreach to University alumni.
Mr. Grafton informed the Regents about the feedback he's received about the
University from a series of meetings with alumni that he has been convening around the
country. Of particular interest, he noted that alumni are proud of the University. They
are pleased with the University's efforts to enhance the undergraduate experience and to
improve student housing, but express concern about the affordability of and access to
quality higher education. They also value the University's efforts to achieve diversity
and are concerned about the decline in state support for higher education. With respect
to Michigan Stadium, alumni are strongly in favor of having it remain the nation's
largest college football stadium.
Mr. Grafton concluded that alumni express a high degree of satisfaction with the
University of Michigan, and the Alumni Association is continuing its efforts to enhance
alumni participation and to engage alumni more deeply in the life of the University.

162



December Meeting, 2005

Following some discussion about Mr. Grafton's report, President Coleman turned
to the regular agenda. She noted that due to the fact that there were no committee
meetings this month there would be no committee reports.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of November 17, 2005.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action Report. He
announced that the Hill Auditorium renovation project had received an honor award
from the AIA Detroit. He commented that the units had been informed of sharp
increases in the cost of natural gas, even though actions taken by the University on a
number of levels had helped to mitigate these costs somewhat.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.   Vice President Ulaby submitted the Report of Projects
Established, November 1-November 30, 2005.
University of Michigan Health System. There was no additional report.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper introduced members of her
staff who were present at the meeting and called attention to the recommended
reappointment of Susan Eklund as dean of students.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little updated the Regents about
progress in the Dearborn campus's efforts to certify its public safety officers. He
reported that the two required public hearings had taken place earlier that month and a
formal proposal would be brought forward for Regental approval early in 2006. He said
that the primary reasons the campus is seeking certification are to give officers the
ability to enforce traffic regulations and to intervene in potentially violent or dangerous
situations. He said that the total cost of completing the certification process would be
$200,000 over a four-year period.
Chancellor Little also reported that the UM-Dearborn had received a Ford
Foundation "Difficult Dialogs" award, and this represents a validation of the
importance of the campus's "metropolitan vision."
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas commented that the campus's
strategic plan has been endorsed unanimously by all campus constituencies and is now
in the process of being implemented.  The three pillars of the plan: academic
excellence, student centeredness, and engaged citizenship, are being incorporated into
the budget planning process for next year.
Students displaced by Hurricane Katrina. Provost Gramlich reported that in
early September the University had admitted 65 students from campuses in New
Orleans as non-candidate-for-degree ("NCFD") students, which allowed them to
continue progress toward their degrees with the understanding that they would return to
their home institutions when these institutions reopened. The students had received
tuition grants covering the full cost of tuition and fees. In November, officials at
Tulane, Loyola, and the University of New Orleans confirmed that those institutions

163



December Meeting, 2005

were prepared to welcome students back in January, while Xavier University, which
will not be reopening yet, has authorized the University of Michigan to retain its
students for another term.
In November all of these NCFD student were notified that they were expected to
return to their home institutions unless extenuating circumstances made it impossible
for the student to make progress toward his or her degree. He noted that federal
regulations preclude the University of Michigan from providing aid to these students
who remain at Michigan unless authorized by their home institution. Students with
extenuating circumstances are being dealt with on a case-by-case basis in the individual
admitting offices, while students who wish to transfer will be considered for admission
and financial aid based on the University's standard eligibility requirements.
Associate Provost Lester Monts responded to questions about this program.
Regent Newman pointed out that there was an understanding among the New Orleans
universities and the University of Michigan and other institutions that had temporarily
accommodated the displaced students that the accommodation would last only until the
home institutions were able to reopen and welcome them back. President Coleman and
Associate Provost Monts pointed out that each student's situation was being treated on
a case-by-case basis.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. MSA President Jesse Levine thanked
President Harper for her leadership on behalf of students. He then gave updates on
current MSA programs and activities.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May reported that there had been a large
number of new pledges to the campaign in the past few months, bringing the total raised
to date to $1.946 billion. Vice President May submitted the report of voluntary support
for November, 2005.
Accenture Foundation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... $46,503
Ann and Carman Adams Fund of the Community Foundation of Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 30,500
Barry A. Adelman Family Foundation, Scarsdale, New York
for the Barry A. Adelman Endowed Scholarship Fund and other support in the Law School........ 180,000
Aegis Property Group, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for the Economics Strategic Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 10,000
Albert Nordheimer Trust
for the Brandt Fund for Judaica in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000
Thomas E. Alford, Pasadena, California
for the Thomas E. Alford Scholarship Fund in the School of Information........................ 10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta Georgia
for research and other support in the Medical School and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......................................................... 104,868
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research and other support in the Division of Kinesiology and the Medical School............. 266,815
American Express Philanthropic Program, New York, New York
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................... 25,000
Susan K. Amster, Encino, California
237 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for the Class of 1979 Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
for the Herbert S. and Carol L. Amster Endowed Lupus Research Fund in the Medical School,
and for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 14,111
Andrah Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and the Nichols Arboretum Fund....................... 26,132
Anonymous Donor
8,071 shares of various corporate common stock
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund, the Sidney Fine

164



December Meeting, 2005

Excellence in Teaching Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and for Camp Michigania.......................................................... 201,256
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Medical School................................................... 200000
Anonymous Donor
for University of Michigan Hospital Motor Meals Ann Arbor and for the University Musical Society. 155,000
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Medical School and for the University Musical Society...................... 100,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Medical School, and for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology, and the
Prudence and Amnon Rosenthal Endowment Fund........................................ 55, 150
Anonymous Donor
for the University Musical Society.................................................... 20,000
Anonymous Donor
for scholarships and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 18,500
Anonymous Donor
for support in the Law School........................................................ 10,000
Eugene Applebaum Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Eugene Applebaum "Dare to Dream" Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....... 75,000
Lisa S. Applebaum Fund of the Eugene Applebaum Family Foundation, New York, New York
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art....................................... 30,000
Applied Engineering & Technology, Troy
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 14,520
Arbitron, Inc., Columbia, Maryland
for scholarships in the Institute for Social Research........................................ 25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School......................................        41,125
ASPA Pension Education Research Foundation, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 28,000
AT&T Labs - Research, Florham Park, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering.............................................. 35,000
Richard A. Auhll, Aspen, Colorado
7, 145 shares of EMC Corporation Massachusetts common stock
for the Richard A. Auhll Professorship Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 98,029
Ann Edmunds Avery, Grand Rapids
for the Avery Charitable Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Charles W. Edmunds
Fund for Graduate Fellowships in Pharmacology and for the Clements Library................... 10,100
Anna Botsford Bach Foundation for Seniors of the Ann Arbor Community, Ann Arbor
for the Silver Club Adult Day Program................................................. 10,000
Fredric G. Bader, Frazer, Pennsylvania
for the Bader Scholarship Fund....................................................... 12,500
Baldwin Foundation, Grand Rapids
for WUOM..................................................................... 10000
David J. Barger, New York, New York
50,000 shares of JetBlue Airways Corporation common stock
for the Barger Family Professorship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 930,000
Roberta Barnes, McLean, Virginia
for the Michigan in Washington Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....10,000
Harold S. Barron, Chicago, Illinois
1,000 shares of Intel Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Harold S. Barron Scholarship Fund in the Law School and for the Student
Publication Building Renovation Fund................................................. 26,500
Frank W. Batsch, Naples, Florida
500 shares of Lancaster Colony Corporation common stock
for the Barbara and Frank Batsch Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 18,770
Lewis B. Becker Trust
for the Lewis and Lillian Becker Professorship in the Medical School......................... 300,000

165



December Meeting, 2005

Project Fund in the Museum of Art, for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller
Theatre in the School of Music, and for support in the University Library........................ 15,788
Bennett Living Trust
1,840 shares of various corporate common stock
for support in the Law School......................................................... 87,570
Nancy D. Berkowitz, New York, New York
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art..................................... 100,000
Robert H. Berry Ann Arbor
169 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 10,093
Kenneth Bettsteller, Las Vegas, Nevada
for the K. & K. Bettsteller Endowed Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Betz Industries, Grand Rapids
for the Richard A. Flinn Scholarship Fund and other support in the College of Engineering,
for support in the Department of Athletics, and for the Spring to Life Fund in the Medical School..... 13,000
Robert E. Betzig, Ann Arbor
for the Keen-Nalan Endowment Fund in the Department of Athletics........................... 15,000
Martha T. Bhatia, Ann Arbor
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art...................................... 10,000
Bickner Family Foundation, Sycamore, Illinois
for the Building Fund in the Law  School.................................................  300,000
Brian L. Bilzin, Miami Beach, Florida
for the Bilzin Family Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 20,000
Duane A. Bingel, Fort Myers, Florida
340 shares of Masco Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 10,322
A. G. Bishop Charitable Trust
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint......................................... 10,000
Barry S. Blattman, Armonk, New York
148 shares of Merrill Lynch & Company, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................................... 10,080
Steven H. Bloom, Armonk, New York
450 shares of Timberland Company common stock
for support in the School of Public Health............................................... 14,767
Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals, Ridgefield, Connecticut
for research in the College of Pharmacy................................................. 10,000
William J. Bogaard, Pasadena, California
1,880 shares of SLM Corporation common stock
for the Building Fund in the Law School.............................................. 100,815
Mary Carmel and Thomas Borders Family Fund Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School................................................... 30,000
John Boyd, Orchard Lake
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the Real Estate Initiative in
A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning.............................. 45,000
Fred C. Brandenburg, Dearborn
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn...................................... 10,000
James E. Brandt, New York, New York
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School................................ 20,000
William K. Brehm, McLean, Viriginia
for the William K. and Delores S. Brehm Endowed Fund, the William K. and Delores S. Brehm
MCDC Fund, and the Brehm Diabetes Center Building Fund.............................. 800,000
James R. Browne, Dallas, Texas
for research in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................... 10,000
Ben F. Bryer Foundation, New York, New York
for the Ben F. Bryer, M.D. Scholarship Fund in the Medical School and for the Ben F.
Bryer Foundation Endowed Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint................ 110,000
Bugas Fund, Jackson
for the Charles G. Harris Neurological Research Fund in the Medical School.................... 100,000
Ian R. N. Bund, Ann Arbor
282 shares of Ventana Medical Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund.......................... 11,541
Linda E. Burke, Quincy
for the Michigan Prostate Center of Research and Education Fund in the Medical School............ 15,000
Charles H. Buswell Estate
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund........................... 51,000
Will M. Caldwell Trust
for the Will and Jeanne Caldwell Funds in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, for the
Richard Dennis Teall Hollister Business Communication Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School
of Business, for the Richard Dennis Teall Hollister Endowed Fund in the College of

166



December Meeting, 2005

Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre
in the School of Music....................................................... 1,200,000
Margaret I. Campbell, Southport, North Carolina
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 25,000
Alfred J. Capoferi, Saint Clair Shores
for the Alfred J. and Mary Ann Capoferi Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
Alfred J. and Mary Ann Capoferi Scholarship Fund and for the Baseball Stadium Construction
Fund in the Department of Athletics..................................................... 10,000
Forrest F. Carhart, Jr. Estate
for support in the School of Information................................................. 10,000
Laurie K. Carr, Ann Arbor
for the Lloyd H. Carr Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics and for support in
the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................................... 50,100
David E. A. Carson, Hartford, Connecticut
for the David E. A. Carson Washington Campus Undergraduate Fund in the Stephen
M. Ross School of Business......................................................... 105,000
David M. Cassard, Grand Rapids
515 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift for the University of Michigan
Club of Grand Rapids Academic Scholarship Fund, and the Cara and David M. Cassard
Scholarship Fund, and for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................... 39,366
Caterpillar, Inc., Peoria, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 10,000
Deborah M. Chaskes, Vienna, Virginia
170 shares of UnitedHealth Group, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Law School and for the Deborah Chaskes Aix Award in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................. 13,219
Barry N. Checkoway, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and the Nichols Arboretum Fund........................... 10,000
Clan Crawford, Jr., Trust
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and the Nichols Arboretum Fund......................... 100,000
Dana M. Cluckey, Owosso
300 shares of General Electric Company common stock and a cash gift
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 10,665
Margo Cohen, Birmingham
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 200,000
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Harry R. Cohodas Graduate Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..... 12,000
Sylvia Casper Cohodas, Longboat Key, Florida
for the Sylvia C. and Arnold M. Cohodas Dean's Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts...................................................... 175,000
Colgate-Palmolive Company, Jeffersonville, Indiana
for support in the University Library................................................ 18,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................  381,750
Cook Family Foundation, Owosso
for the New England Literature Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 10,000
Lewis H. Cooper, Ann Arbor
for the Louis Stout Scholarship in Horn, the George Cavender Marching Band Scholarship,
the Glenn P. Smith Scholarship in Trombone, the Carl Haas Scholarship, the Charles Owen and
James Salmon Percussion Scholarship, the School of Music Endowed Scholarship, the Larry Teal
Scholarship in Saxophone, the Nelson Hauenstein Memorial Scholarship, the William Stubbins
Memorial Scholarship in Clarinet, and for the Hugh and Nan Cooper Scholarship Fund in the
School of Music..................................................................26,000
William B. Corlis, Detroit
for the Robert G. Rodkey Collegiate Professorship in Business Administration Fund in the
Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................................... 50,000
John C. Couch Living Trust
for the Richard B. Couch Endowed Professorship Fund in the College of Engineering............. 100,000
Coyer Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the Medical School................................................. 10,000
Ronnie M. Cresswell, Palm Desert, California
for support in the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics and for the Cardiovascular Center.. 15,000
Gayle Crick Fischer, Indianapolis, Indiana
560 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock
for the William T. and Norma J. Crick Scholarship Fund and other support in the College of
Pharmacy........................................................................ 30,341
Carolyn L. Crosby, Fort Wayne, Indiana
for the Louis and Margaret Crosby Scholarship Fund..................................... 10,000

167



December Meeting, 2005

Laura J. Currie, Midland
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 20,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation National Headquarters, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 37,225
Dennis A. Dahlmann, Ann Arbor
450 shares of Bank of America Corporation common stock
for the Dahlmann Family Scholarship Fund and other support in the Department of Athletics
and for the P. Gregory Peck Memorial Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy.............. 27,902
DaimlerChrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for scholarships and other support in the Center for the Education of Women, the College of
Engineering, and the University of Michigan-Dearborn, and for employee matching gifts........... 80,716
James H. Danto, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 25,000
Marvin 1. Danto, Bloomfield Hills
for the Marvin and Betty Danto Research Professorship Fund in the Medical School, for the
Cardiovascular Center, and for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund.... 2,508,900
Richard and Sandra Dauch Foundation, Detroit
for engineering support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............................. 50,000
David Trust
for the Rensis Likert New Directions Fund in the Institute for Social Research................... 20000
Marvin H. Davidson, New York, New York
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art...................................... 200,000
Detroit Red Wing Alumni Association, Inc., West Bloomfield
for the Red Wings Alumni Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 20,000
Dixon and Carol Doll Family Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Otto Gago, M.D. Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School................. 20,000
Robert J. Donia, La Jolla, California
for the Donia Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the Southeast
European Studies Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 200,000
Glenn Doshay, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 10,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for research in the College of Engineering and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 58,000
Herbert H. and Grace A. Dow Foundation, Midland
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......................... 500,000
DSO National Laboratories, Singapur
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 18,404
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 20,970
Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................... 270000
Rory E. Dunkel, Essexville
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................. 11,800
Connie R. Dunlap, Ann Arbor
for support in the Center for the Education of Women and the School of Information............... 10,000
Roberta Dunlap Estate
for support in the School of Education and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 10,860
Frances J. Eisenberg, Bloomfield Hills
for the Frances and Kenneth Eisenberg Institute Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts....................................................................... 250000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 25,000
Bruce A. Featherstone, Denver, Colorado
413 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School.................................. 20,218
Oscar H. and Barbara Feldman Trust
for scholarships and other support -in -the Department -of Athletics and the. Stephen M. Ross

168



December Meeting, 2005

Robert J. Fisher, Naples, Florida
119,351 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Robert J. Fisher Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School....617,677
Robert B. Fiske, Jr., New York, New York
for the Robert B. Fiske, Jr. Fellowship Program in the Law School........................... 250,000
Coni F. Flam, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
100 shares of FedEx Corporation common stock
for the Larry Kirshbaum Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,497
Richard A. Foley, Roseland, New Jersey
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, in memory of Dr. Isadore Lampe, and for
support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, and the School of Music............ 10,100
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 20000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 31,795
Ilene H. Forsyth, Ann Arbor
for the W. K. Kellogg Eye Center Annual Fund and the Turner Geriatric Endowed Fund in
the Medical School, for support in the Center for the Education of Women, for the Building
Project Fund in the Museum of Art, for the Martha Cook Building Fund, and the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund and for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology........ 16,133
George B. Foussianes, New York, New York
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 20,000
Martin J. Frank, Beverly Hills, California
106 shares of Franklin Resources, Inc., common stock
for scholarships and other support in the School of Education and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..............................................................10,O140
Frank Family Charitable Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,000
Judith Frankel, Bloomfield Hills
for the Stanley Frankel Summer Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 10,000
Stanley Frankel, Troy
for the Stanley Frankel Summer Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 10,000
Stanley and Judith Frankel Family Foundation, Troy
for the Frankel Commercialization Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.............. 250,000
Ronald Freedman, Ann Arbor
2,267 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Ronald and Deborah Freedman Fund in the Institute for Social Research.................. 44,467
Steven M. Freeman, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 25,000
Mary C. Frey, Grand Rapids
1,533 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Twink Frey Social Activists Award Fund in the Center for the Education of Women and
for support in the Department of Athletics.............................................. 65,985
Peter S. Fuss, Boca Grande, Florida
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Construction Fund........................ 450,000
E. James Gamble, Bloomfield Hills
2,939 units of Tamarack Large Capital Growth mutual fund
for the Building Fund in the Law School............................................... 33,419
Michael R. Gelband, Short Hills, New Jersey
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 70,000
Charles and Rita Gelman Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School.............................. 25,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the College of Engineering.............................................. 30,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for research in the College of Engineering, for the Heinz C. Prechter Bipolar Research Fund
in the Medical School, and for employee matching gifts................................... 255,500

169



December Meeting, 2005

Benn Gilmore, Plymouth
for the Men's Basketball Fund, the Men's Swimming and Diving Fund, and other support in
the Department ofAthletics............................................................ 51,600
Eleanor H. Gimon, Greenwich, Connecticut
1,725 shares of Hewlett-Packard Company common stock
for support intheMedical School........................................................ 49,956
GlaxoSmithKline, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 20,00
Goerlich Family Foundation, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 14,000
Frank L. and Helen Gofrank Foundation, Rochester Hills
for the Frank L. and Helen Gofrank Foundation M-PACT Scholarship Fund.....................10,000
Robert H. Gorlin, Northville
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School, and for support in the University Library,
andthe Clements Library........................................................... 22,000
John J. Grant, Birmingham
for the Basketball Facility Fund in the Department of Athletics and for the Paton Accounting
Center in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.......................................... 11,000
Robert A. Gregg Trust
7,000 shares of Altria Group, Inc., common stock
fortheRobertA. GreggFund........................................................ 528,535
Guidant Foundation, Inc., Indianapolis, Indiana
for scholarships in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts................... 10,175
David Handleman, Bloomfield Hills
for the Marion and David Handleman Professorship in Vascular Surgery and for research
inthe Medical School.............................................................. 110,000
Richard G. Hansen, Grandville
750 shares of Perrigo Company common stock
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................. 10,466
Harlan Foundation, Williamsburg
for support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School............................. 12,000
J. Ira and Nicki Harris Family Foundation, Palm Beach, Florida
for the Football Locker Room Renovation Fund in the Department of Athletics, and for
the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program, Benny Friedman Fellowship in Sports Journalism...... 400,000
David G. Hartman, New Providence, New Jersey
1,000 shares of Chubb Corporation common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and for the Dave and Kitty Hartman
Fund and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 97,760
Eugene L. Hartwig, Bloomfield Hills
50,637 shares of various corporate common stock, municipal bonds, and a cash gift for the
Eugene L. and Donna K. Hartwig Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund, for the ultimate benefit of
the Schools of Law and Education, for the Clements Library, the Student Publication Building
Renovation Fund, and for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 200,846
Thomas W. Hawkins, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for the Thomas W. Hawkins Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 20,000
John G. Hayward, Bloomfield Hills
for the John G. Hayward Charitable Gift Annuity, for the ultimate benefit of the Law School........ 10,000
Heatcraft, Grenada, Mississippi
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 40,000
John R. Heckenlively, Superior Township
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................ 10,000
David W. Heleniak, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 20,000
Daniel J. Hennessy, Lake Forest, Illinois
for the Hennessy Family Endowed Scholarship Fund and other support in the Stephen M. Ross
School ofBusiness................................................................. 30,000
Thomas H. Henson, Atlanta, Georgia
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics and the College of Literature,
Science, andtheArts................................................14,800
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for support in the School of Public Health............................................. 50,000
Carol S. Hollenshead, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Pixar common stock
for support in the Center for the Education of Women..................................... 10,474
Marsha E. Holmes, Ponte Vedra Beach, Florida
400 shares of Halliburton Company common stock
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, in memory of John W. Holmes.... 26,102

170



December Meeting, 2005

Jon R. Holt, Minnetrista, Minnesota
for the Jon R. and Beverly S. Holt Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering, and for
support in the Department of Athletics, and for the Men's Glee Club......................... 151,850
Horning for Michigan Regent, Grand Haven
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics................................... 10,000
Karen L. Horny, Springfield, Missouri
405 shares of AT&T, Inc., common stock
for the Karen Horny Scholarship in the School of Information................................ 10,076
Timothy A. Howes, Los Altos, California
7,144 shares of Opsware, Inc., common stock
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Construction Fund in the College of
Engineering................................................................. 50,258
John K. Hoyns, New York, New York
for support in the Law School....................................................... 15,000
Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 130,000
Curtis E. Huntington, Boston, Massachusetts
14,777 shares of CGM Capital Development Fund common stock
for the Curtis E. Huntington Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................506,265
Hyundai Motor Company, Seoul, South Korea
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 29,980
Frances B. Imoberstag Foundation, Dearborn Heights
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan.......................... 20,000
Eugene O. Ingram, Ann Arbor
for the Eugene 0. and Margaret L. Ingram Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit
of the Museum of Art....................................................... 10,000
Instrumentation Laboratory, Lexington, Massachusetts
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering, and for the Tauber Manufacturing Institute
in the College of Engineering, and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................... 80,000
International Congress of Oral Implantologists, Upper Montclair, New Jersey
for the Hom-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry.............. 10,000
Verne G. Istock, Chicago, Illinois
6,000 shares of JPMorgan Chase & Company common stock
for the Judy and Verne Istock Scholarship Fund and other support in the Department of Athletics,
for the Verne G. Istock Scholarship Fund and other support in the Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, for the Mildred W. Istock Scholarship Fund and other support in the School of Education,
for the Judith A. Istock Scholarship Fund and other support in the School of Music, for the
Donald E. and Arleen G. Warnke Scholarship Fund and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the Geraldine Ford Memorial Scholarship Fund, and the University Alumni
Association............................................................... 233,940
Gretchen N. Jackson, Ann Arbor
for the Gretchen Neal Jackson Scholarship Fund and other support in the School of Music.......... 10,000
Jacob Family Foundation, Bloomfield
for the Arnold M. and Linda T. Jacob Faculty Development Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School
of Business and for the Building Fund in the Law School.................................. 25,000
Jerome Jacobson, Washington, D. C.
1,100 shares of various corporate common stock
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 60,491
Ira J. Jaffe, Southfield
for the Benny Friedman Scholarship Fund and other support in the Department of Athletics, for
the Benjamin D. and Ann Jaffe Memorial Scholarship Fund in the Law School, and for the Matthaei
Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund........................................ 19,400
Mike J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
26,291 shares of Perrigo Company common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the Innovations Initiative Fund and
other support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................  381,877
Jagdish C. Janveja, Ann Arbor
for the Stadium Brick Project Fund in the Department of Athletics........................... 20,000
Jay Victor Revocable Living Trust
for the Jay Victor Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 20,000
Phil F. Jenkins, Ann Arbor
for the Phil F. Jenkins Research Professorship in Depression Research Fund and the Phil F.
Jenkins Research Fund in the Medical School............................... 2,000,000
Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation, Toledo, Ohio
for the Conrad and Caroline Jobst Foundation Fund in the Medical School...................... 210,000

171



December Meeting, 2005

Roger C. Johnson, Washington, D. C.
1,000 shares of American Tower Corporation common stock
for the Kathleen McKenney Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Education and for the
Michigan in Washington Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 27,055
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School, for support in the University
Hospitals, and for employee matching gifts.............................................. 32,425
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research and other support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning and for the Schools of Medicine and Public Health............................... 1,378,158
Robert C. Jones, Summit, New Jersey
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the Harry H. Jones Fund in the
Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................................... 70,000
John P. Junge, Rancho Santa Fe, California
1,352 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Champions Center and other support in the Department of Athletics...................... 77,579
Junge Revocable Trust
727 units of Fidelity Magellan mutual fund for the Champions Center in the Department of Athletics.. 78,355
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 274,609
Richard Katcher, Beachwood, Ohio
850 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift for scholarships in the Department
of Athletics, for the Building Fund in the Law School, for support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and for the Katcher Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund, for the ultimate
benefit of the Richard and Shirley Katcher Scholarship in the Law School....................... 44,859
EwingMarion Kauffman Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for research in the Institute for Social Research.......................................... 449,661
W. K. Kellogg Fund of the Grand Haven Area Community Foundation, Grand Haven
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program William C. Richardson Fellowship for Public Policy... 15,000
W. R. Kenley, Los Angeles, California
for the W. R. Kenley Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School......... 20,000
Charles S. Kennedy III, Grosse Pointe
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Law School................................. 13,200
Derek J. Kerr, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 20,000
KeyBank National Association, Toledo, Ohio
for the University Musical Society................................................. 20,000
Miles S. King, Boulder, Colorado
250 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Thomas J. Evans Memorial Scholarship Fund..................................... 10,231
Laurence J. Kirshbaum, New York, New York
400 shares of WellChoice, Inc., common stock
and 615 units of The Growth Fund of America mutual fund
for the Laurence and Barbara Kirshbaum Strategic Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
andtheArts...............................................................  50,567
Cary H. Klein, Allison Park, Pennsylvania
1,290 shares of JPMorgan Chase & Company common stock
for the Cary and Kathy Klein Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 50,420
Arthur Kochoff, Dearborn Heights
1,318 shares of various corporate common stock for the Mary and Arthur Kochoff Endowed
Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Dearborn................................. 40,553
Michael E. Korybalski, Ann Arbor
3,782 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Michael E. Korybalski Mechanical Engineering Endowed Lecture Fund in the
College of Engineering and for support in the Department of Athletics.......................... 74,840
Suzanne Kosacheff, New Boston
for the Kosacheff Scholarship Fund..................................................... 32,000
Jon H. Kouba, San Francisco, California
367 shares of Ross Stores, Inc., common stock
for the Jon Henry Kouba Fund in the Law School........................................ 10,146
Adrian L. Kramer, Saint Clair Shores
for the Children's Cancer Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 30,000
Gloria A. Kramer, Saint Clair Shores
for the Children's Cancer Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 10,000
Gerald D. Krause, Phoenix, Arizona
869 shares of Canadian Oil Sands Trust common stock
for support in the School of Dentistry...........................................  100,109
Otto F. Krauss and Jenny H. Krauss, Raleigh, North Carolina
for the Otto F. and Jenny H. Krauss Fund in the College of Engineering....................... 10,000

172



December Meeting, 2005

Krupman Family Foundation, Inc., Purchase, New York
for the Jackson Lewis Fund in the Law School........................................... 10000
Ronni Lacroute Fund of the Cornell University Foundation, Ithaca, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 30,000
Robert F. Landstra Trust
for the Dr. Robert and Alice Landstra Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.................. 100,000
David A. Lauer, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................................. 10,000
Paul L. Lee, New York, New York
for support in the Law School........................................................ 15,000
James A. Leonard, Ann Arbor
for the James Rae Day Endowed Lectureship Fund in the Medical School....................... 40,000
John B. Leppiaho, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics, and the Schools of
Education, Medicine, and Music......................................................12,625
Jay J. Levin, West Bloomfield
385 shares of Sysco Corporation common stock for the Jay J. Levin Fund in the
Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................................. 12,395
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................... 100000
Carolyn D. Lewis, Ann Arbor
for the Donald J. Lewis Professorship in Mathematics in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....
10,000
Ted T. Lin, New York, New York
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art....................................... 10,000
Stanford Lipsey, Buffalo, New York
Seven shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock and a cash gift for the Student
Publication Building Renovation Fund................................................ 999,650
Jeffrey Liss, Washington, D. C.
for the Jeffery and Susan Liss Fund in the Life Sciences Institute, the Building Fund in the
Law School, and the Michigan in Washington Program Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.............................................................. 30000
Susan Liss, Chevy Chase, Maryland
for the Jeffrey and Susan Liss Fund in the Life Siences Institute, for the Lloyd and Laurie Carr
Endowment Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, the Building Fund in the Law School,
and for the Michigan in Washington Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts. 30,500
Lockheed Martin, Lakeland, Florida
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering.............................. 21,000
John M. Long, New York, New York
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund............................. 10,000
Sarah P. Loughran, San Rafael, California
4,000 shares of Health Grades, Inc., common stock
for the Avedis Donabedian Memorial Scholarship Fund in the School of Public Health............. 24,960
Harry Lucas, Jr., Austin, Texas
for mathematics support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..................... 100,974
Lumina Foundation for Education, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the School of Education................................................ 254,300
Joseph Lunghamer Chevrolet, Inc., Pontiac
for the Joe Lunghamer Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics................. 20,000
James E. Lurie, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Law School........................................................ 10,000
Ann and Robert H. Lurie Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Solid State Electronics Laboratory Construction Fund in the College of Engineering....... 3,000,000
Paul and Margaret Lurie Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of Metropolitan Chicago,
Chicago, Illinois
for the Building Fund in the Law School................................................ 10,000
L&W Engineering Community Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit

173



December Meeting, 2005

Lionel S. Margolick, Birmingham
for the Basketball Facilities Fund in the Department of Athletics.............................. 31,250
Marlon Foundation, Denver, Colorado
for the Richard I. Ford Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 15,000
Paul D. Marquardt, Washington, D. C.
for the Paul D. Marquardt Scholarship Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the Men's Glee Club................................................. 10,250
Richard E. Marsh, San Marino, California
7,000 shares of Baxter International, Inc., common stock
for the Marsh Family Merit Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 265,930
William C. Martin, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............ 28,150
Richard N. Maskell, Hampshire, Illinois
for the Richard and Odette Maskell Fund in the School of Art and Design..................... 400,000
Loretta Matthews Memorial Fund, Riverview
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................................... 15,000
Terrence J. McDonald, Ann Arbor
for the Academic Advising Training Opportunities Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts................................................................ 25,000
Beatrice K. McDowell, Akron Ohio
for the Building Fund in the Law  School.................................................  100,000
Carmen J. McGrae, Ann Arbor
for the John D. and Carmen J. McGrae Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts...............................................................75,000
Margaret M. McIntosh Trust
for the Mildred McIntosh Dance Scholarship Endowment Fund in the School of Music............ 10,000
Clyde McKenzie Chartable Lead Trust
for the Clyde and Harriet McKenzie Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..... 12,500
Vincent R. McLean, Westfield, New Jersey
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Ronald D. and Regina C. McNeil Foundation, Inc., Lake Zurich, Illinois
for the Sanders M. Clark Endowed Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering............... 30,000
Rogers McVaugh, Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for the Rogers McVaugh Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Herbarium......... 20,000
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
4,100 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project.............................................. 201,983
Meijer Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......................... 50,000
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, New York, New York
for support at the University of Michigan............................................... 10,000
Mentor Graphics Corporation, Wilsonville, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 25,000
Herman Merte, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art...................................... 10,000
Juan E. Mestas, Flint
for the Juan E. Mestas University-Community Scholarship at the University of Michigan-Flint
and  for W FUM................................................................... 20,075
Mette Foundation, Detroit
for the Mette Foundation Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry and for the Norman
Mette Scholarship in the Medical School............................................... 130,000
Gary J. Miller, Del Mar, California
175 shares of Capital One Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and for the Michigan Philosophy Special
Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 14,568
Mind Science Foundation, San Antonio, Texas
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 15,000
Ira S. Mondry, Birmingham
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics, the Law School, and the
College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and for the Life Sciences Institute, and the Student
Publication Building Renovation Fund................................................. 11,400
Monroe-Brown Foundation, Portage
for the Monroe-Brown Funds in the Department of Athletics, the College of Engineering, the
Stephen M. Ross School of Business, the Medical School, the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
and the Museum of Art, and for the Clements Library, in memory of Robert J. Brown............. 142,500
James E. Montie, Ann Arbor
for the Reed Nesbit Professorship in Urology and other support in the Medical School.............. 31,000
John C. Morley, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
775 shares of Keycorp common stock and a cash gift

174



December Meeting, 2005

for support in the Department of Athletics and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and for
the Mathew J. Jr., and Sarah Patterson Spence Fund in the College of Engineering................ 25,833
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
475 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Champions Center and other support in the Department of Athletics...................... 32,054
Motorola, Arlington Heights, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering...............................................  10,000
Ruth Mott Foundation, Flint
for research and other support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................... 124,155
Janet S. Mueller, Saint Peter, Minnesota
for support in the Clements Library...................................................  25,000
Multiple Sclerosis Foundation, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for support in the Medical School...................................................... 10,000
Maeve Murray Memorial Fund, Plymouth
for the Save a Heart Campaign Fund................................................... 20,000
Gregory T. Mutz, Barrington, Illinois
for the Building Fund in the Law School.............................................. 25,000
Carolyn Myers, Waltham, Massachusetts
1,300 shares of Teradyne, Inc., common stock
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics................................... 20,131
Irene M. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................................. 10,000
William D. Myers, Bloomfield Hills
for the Dean's Scholarship Fund in the Medical School..................................... 10,000
Nalco Energy Services, Sugarland, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 35,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Life Sciences Institute............................................. 10,500
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 77,548
National Organization for Rare Disorders, Danbury, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 24,000
Robert D. Neary, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Student Projects Fund and the Robert D. and Janet E.
Neary Fund in Business Administration in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and for the
Robert D. and Janet E. Neary Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 92,500
Gregor N. Neff, New York, New York
for the Gregor N. Neff Scholarship Fund in the Law School...............................  25,000
Joan Nelson Neil, Deerfield, Illinois
for the Joan Nelson and Herbert E. Neil, Jr. Scholarship Fund in the School of Education and for
the Herbert E. Neil, Jr. Faculty Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 30,000
Louise R. Newman, Franklin
3,450 shares of State Street Corporation common stock
for the Louise R. Newman Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Education............... 198,824
Sarah W. Newman, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Center for the Education of Women, and the Museum of Art,
and for WUOM..................................................................10,215
Newman Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Theodore S. Lawrence, M.D., Ph.D. Fund and the Newman Family Professorship Fund in
Radiation Oncology in the Medical School.............................................. 45,000
Roger S. Newton, Ann Arbor
for the Cardiovascular Center, and for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund. 150,055
Charles G. Nickson, Houston, Texas
for support in the Law School......................................................... 35,000
Richard M. Noel, Champaign, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 10,000
Nokomis Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Twink Frey Social Activists Award Fund in the Center for the Education of Women.......... 15,000
Luther Norris and Helen Stegeman Post Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund, and for support in the Museum
of Art, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 19,000
Novartis, East Hanover, New Jersey
for the John M. Sheldon Fund and other support in the Medial School........................ 16,000
NSF International, Ann Arbor
for the NSF International Graduate Award Fund in the School of Public Health.................... 50,000
Omicron, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics............................................  11,600

175



December Meeting, 2005

David B. Osler, Ann Arbor
for the Emil Lorch Dean's Discretionary Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning, for support in the Museum of Art, and for the University Musical Society....... 11,500
Robert T. and Bonnie P. Paine, Albuquerque, New Mexico
202 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Paine Family and Herbert and Margaret Boter Trapp Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.............................................................. 11,626
Stephen M. Papadopoulos, Paradise Valley, Arizona
8,000 shares of Regeneration Technologies, Inc., common stock
for the Papadopoulos Family Athletic Medicine Fund, the Papadopoulos Family Director of
Athletic Training Fund, and other support in the Department of Athletics....................... 64,120
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for support in the Medical School.................................................... 100,000
Anand C. Parekh, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 10,000
Jacque H. Passino, Jr., Houston, Texas
for biomedical engineering support in the College of Engineering and for the William J. Adams
Accounting Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................... 11,000
Brian P. Patchen Miami, Florida
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics, the Clements Library, and the
Schools of Law and Music, and for the Michigan Union, and the University Musical Society......... 14,400
Ara G. Paul, Ann Arbor
for the Ara G. and Shirley W. Paul Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Ara and
Shirley Paul Endowment Fund in the College of Pharmacy.................................. 25,000
Rovert E. Paup, Ann Arbor
474 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art....................................... 10,285
Steven W. Percy, Akron, Ohio
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics, and for support in the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, and the School of Natural Resources and Environment...................... 25,000
Pfizer, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics and for the Southeastern Michigan Science Fair.......... 11,600
Richard E. Posey, Chagrin Falls, Ohio
2,850 shares of Cisco Systems, Inc., common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 49,633
Procter & Gamble Fund, Cincinnati, Ohio
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering, the Stephen M. Ross School
of Business, and the Schools of Law and Public Health, and for the Presidents Fund, and other
support at the University of Michigan.................................................. 50,250
Ward L. Quaal, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics.................................... 20,000
Radar Industries, Warren
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................. 19,000
Ravitz Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Ravitz Foundation Endowment Fund in Oral Surgery in the School of Dentistry and
for the Ravitz Foundation Endowed Fund in the Medical School............................ 975,000
James and Bonnie Reece Charitable Fund of the Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Jim and Bonnie Reece Men's Hockey Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and for the University Musical Society.....26,500
Margaret A. Riecker, Midland
for the Margaret A. and John E. Riecker Law Library Fund in the Law School and for the
Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................................ 110,000
Richard 0. Rieger, Bedford, New York
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre in the School of Music and for the
Michigan Union.................................................................. 10,250
Frank B. Robbins Memorial Trust
for the Frank E. Robbins Mem-orial Scholarship Funds in the College of Pharmacy, and

176



December Meeting, 2005

Stephen M. Ross, New York, New York
for the Stephen M. Ross Expansion Construction and Facilities Renovation Fund in the
Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................................. 6,176,878
Jack and Moe Rouse Fund of the Greater Cincinnati Foundation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre in the School of Music.......................... 10,000
Ernestine Ruben, Princeton, New Jersey
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art..............................  100,000
Mary L. Ruddon, Ann Arbor
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for biomedical fellowships in the
Medical School...................................................................20,000
David M. Rudnick, San Rafael, California
for the Jack N. Fingersh Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School........................ 75,000
Trenna E. Ruffner, Grosse Pointe Park
for the Martha Cook Building Fund....................................................  11,000
Alma Ruppenthal Trust
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School........................ 867,301
Rena Ruppenthal Trust
for the Henry Ruppenthal Family Professorship in the Medical School........................ 632,699
Ghassan and Manal Saab Foundation, Flint
for the Ghassan and Manal Saab Signature Blue Service Scholarship at the University of
Michigan-Flint..................................................................20,000
Marc I. Sachs, Tampa, Florida
for support at the University of Michigan and for the Marc I. and Karlyn A. Sachs Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..........................................  10,069
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for the Russell Sage Foundation Scholar Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 30,095
Sanger Family Foundation, Wayzata, Minnesota
1,000 shares of General Mills, Inc., common stock
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics.................................... 49,765
Richard N. Sarns, Ann Arbor
for support in the Division of Kinesiology and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, for
the Otto Gago M.D. Professorship in Cardiac Surgery, and the Joe Morris M.D. Collegiate
Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School, and for the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund................................................. 32,600
Patricia C. Schemm Charitable Unitrust
for the Ferdinand Ripley Schemm Fund in the Medical School............................... 54,926
H. W. Schiller Family Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 10,000
Albert G. and Olivia H. Schlink Foundation, Norwalk, Ohio
for the Albert G. Schlink Endowment Fund in the Medical School............................. 10,000
Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Sugar Land, Texas
for research in the School of Public Health............................................... 40,000
Elizabeth M. Schmidt, Grosse Pointe Shores
for the Sid Gilman and Carol Barbour Lectureship in the Medical School....................... 10,000
Russell L. and Frances B. Schneider Trust
for the Russell and Frances Schneider Student Merit Award Fund............................. 682,611
Douglas R. Schrank, Saugatuck
145 shares of Apache Corporation common stock
for the Schrank Family Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,128
Peter A. Schweitzer, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Schweitzer Student-Athlete Scholars Fund in the Department of Athletics and for
the Schweitzer Collegiate Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 140,000
Allen J. Sedman, Estero, Florida
1,700 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Engineering and for the Aileen and Allen Sedman Endowed Fund
in the Medical School............................................................... 36,559
Paul F. Sefcovic, Columbus, Ohio
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics and the Law School.............. 14,200
Seinfeld Family Foundation, Bellmore, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
Dennis Serras, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................... 20,000
Billy Sexton, Bellaire
for the Avery Hutcheson Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 25,000
Vivian B. Shapiro, Princeton, New Jersey
284 units of Vanguard Growth and Income mutual fund
for the Harold and Vivian Shapiro Undergraduate Library Fund in the University Library........... 15,000
Benson P. and Norma L. Shapiro Fund of the Fleet Bank, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Norma L. Shapiro Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 10,000

177



December Meeting, 2005

Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts..... 10,900
Donald R. Shepherd Trust
for the Donald R. Shepherd Women's Swimming Scholarship Fund and the Donald R.
Shepherd Women's Cross Country Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics and for
the Donald R. Shepherd Instrument Endowment Fund in the School of Music................... 300,000
Ching ju Wang Sheu, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Ching ju Wang Sheu Graduate Student Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy............. 20,000
Steven M. Shindler, Great Falls, Virginia
1,100 shares of Nil Holdings, Inc., common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................50,309
Gail S. Shulman, Flint
for the Leonard B. Shulman Travel Award at the University of Michigan-Flint.................... 10,000
Leonard G. Siegal, Farmington Hills
285 shares of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation common stock
for the Leonard G. and Bluma A. Siegal Merit Scholarship in the A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning...................................................... 26,880
Marion C. Siney Trust
for the Marion C. Siney Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 700,000
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 100,000
Richard C. Slayton, Chicago, Illinois
for the Reunion Gift Facilities Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................. 10,000
J. Barry Sloat Trust
for the University Musical Society..................................................... 10,000
Smart Family Foundation, Inc., Wilton, Connecticut
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 30,000
Betsey M. Smith, Plymouth
704 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Neurology Research and Patient Care Fund in the Medical School....................... 24,552
H. Irene Smith Trust
for undergraduate student aid...................................................... 18,542
Philip L. Smith, Edwards, Colorado
1,650 shares of Charles Schwab Corporation common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 25,567
Susan M. Smith, Ann Arbor
1,200 shares of Corning, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for the Susan Meredith Smith Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for
the University Musical Society...................................................... 26,530
Willard E. Smucker Foundation, Orrville, Ohio
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................................. 10,000
Lawrence K. Snider, Chicago, Illinois
for the Lawrence and Maxine Snider Charitable Gift Annuity, for the ultimate benefit of the
Museum of Art, the School of Art and Design and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 15,000
Judy W. Soley, Scarsdale, New York
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 10,000
Harvey Sorkin, Purchase, New York
1,650 shares of Astoria Financial Corporation common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 48,758
Isaac R. Souede, New York, New York
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Robert E. Spatt, New York, New York
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School................................. 11,200
Spectrum Controls, Bellevue, Washington
for the Bruce Wanta Endowed Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 30,000
Haley Sperling Memorial Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Haley H. Sperling Memorial Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts.......................................................................  15,000
Elmer and Sylvia Sramek Charitable Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School................................................... 84,365
Patricia A. Stacey, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and the Medical School.... 63,950
William R. Steinhoff Trust
for the William R. Steinhoff Charitable Gift Annuity, for the ultimate benefit of the Marilyn
Mason-William Steinhoff Scholarship Fund in the School of Music, and for other support at the
University of Michigan........................................................ 100,000
Mary V. Stevenson Estate
Various corporate common stock, mutual fund units, and a cash gift

178



December Meeting, 2005

for the M. Virginia Stevenson Scholarship and the M. Virginia Stevenson Friends of the Opera
Scholarship in the School of Music................................................. 1,027,485
Clinton F. Stimpson III, Fort Gratiot
for support in the College of Engineering, the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................. 45,000
John L. Strauch, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for the Paul L. Strauch "Spirit of the Studio" Endowed Scholarship in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment..................................................................   10,000
Stanley S. Stroup, Hilton Head, South Carolina
175 shares of Wells Fargo & Company common stock
for support in the Law School......................................................... 10,941
Sandra L. Sully, Cary, North Carolina
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 15,000
Jeffrey E. Susskind, Century City, California
for the Building Fund in the Law School............................................. 50,000
Nancy A. Symons, Elyria, Ohio
200 shares of Procter & Gamble Company common stock
for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, for the William T. Smith-Henry
Pollack Endowed Professorship, and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and for the Martha Cook Building Fund, and the Michigan League........................ 11,420
Tetlak Foundation, Bratenahl, Ohio
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 14,300
Ileane S. Thal, Birmingham
500 shares of Forest Laboratories, Inc., common stock
for the Ileane and Bruce E. Thal Judaica Collections Fund at the University Library and for other
support at the University of Michigan.................................................... 21,000
Lois A. Theis, Ann Arbor
for the Lois A. Theis Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the School of Natural
Resources and Environment......................................................... 10,000
Lynda R. Thomas, Grosse Pointe
for the Charles M. Thomas Esophageal Cancer Endowed Research Fund in the Comprehensive
Cancer Center..................................................................10,000
Zylpha R. Thompson Estate
for support in the School of Nursing.................................................... 10,000
Time Warner Book Group, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Laurence and Barbara Kirshbaum Strategic Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..............................................................  50,000
Frederick C. Tinsey III, Troy
for the Fred and Diane Tinsey Endowed Football Scholarship in the Department of Athletics........ 20,000
Tisch Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Tisch Endowment Fund for the Dean in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 600,000
Allan L. Tompkins, Jackson
124 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 10,019
Topspins, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 20,000
James L. Townsend, Louisville, Kentucky
200 shares of Banta Corporation common stock
for the Sudden Hearing Loss Research Fund in the Medical School........................... 10,113
Harry A. and Margaret D. Towsley Foundation, Midland
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics, for the Judith Dow Rumelhart Musical
Theatre Scholarship and other support in the School of Music, and for the Harry A. and Margaret
Towsley Policy Makers in Residence Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......... 810,000
Sinibaldo Tozzi, Palm Beach, Florida
500 shares of Dell, Inc., common stock
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 15,533
Dorothy E. Trimby, East Lansing
for the Dr. Robert H. and Dorothy E. Trimby Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............. 50,000
Tuktawa Foundation, Orchard Lake
for the Tuktawa Fund for Liver Research and Education Fund in the Medical School.............. 60,000
Unilever United States Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................... 10,000
University of Michigan Alumni Club of Lansing, East Lansing
for the Greater Lansing Area Alumnae Club Scholarship Fund.............................. 11,000
University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit, Grosse Pointe Woods
for the William Revelli Marching Band Scholarship Fund in the School of Music, and
for the Detroit University of Michigan Club Scholarship Fund.............................. 12,500

179



December Meeting, 2005

University of Michigan Club of Greater Metropolitan Detroit Scholarship Fund, Farmington
for the University of Michigan Club Greater Metropolitan Detroit Women's Swimming
Scholarship  Fund  in the Department of Athletics........................................... 100,000
University of Michigan Club of Washington, D. C., Washington, D. C.
for the  DC-Club  Make  a Difference  Fund..................................................10,000
Elizabeth Upjohn-Mason, Kalamazoo
3,305 shares of Stryker Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Norman Thompson M.D. Professorship of Surgery Fund in the Medical School,
and for support in the Depression Center, in memory of Robert Woodworth..................... 154,055
Prehlad S. Vachher Charitable Remainder Unitrust, Ashburn, Virginia
for the Frank Sheehan Scholarship in Aeronautics in the College of Engineering...................20,000
Doug T. and Laurie J. Valassis, Lake Forest, Illinois
for support in the  Cardiovascular Center..................................................  25,000
George F. Valassis Charitable Lead Trust
for the Valassis Professorship of Urologic Oncology and the Urologic Oncology
Research  Fund  in  the  M edical School.................................................... 250,000
Jay and Betty Van Andel Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 150,000
Allison R. Vandenberg Trust
for the Dean's Scholarship  Fund in the Medical School....................................... 25,000
Titus Van Haitsma Estate
4,652 units of various mutual funds for the Titus Van Haitsma Dental Student Scholarship
Fund  in  the  School of Dentistry.........................................................  42,575
Mrs. Alexander S. Vida, Bradbury, California
for the Alexander S. Vida M.D. Memorial Medical Scholarship in the Medical School..............100,000
George A. Vinyard, Chicago, Illinois
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law  School.................................... 10,000
Bob Vizas, Berkley, California
for the Vizas Family Dean's Merit Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and
the  A rts............................................................................ 10,000
Jane E. Von Voigtlander, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund............................ 1,000,000
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics, and the School of
Education, and for orthopaedic research and the Robert N. Hensinger Endowed Lectureship
in the Medical School..........................................................10,500
Ellen C. Wagner Revocable Living Trust
1,445 shares of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc., common stock
for the Richard A. Epstein Visionary Fund in the Medical School.............................. 15,440
Nancy Williams Walls, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 20,000
David R. Walt, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Michele May and David Walt Dean's Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................................25,000
Gary T. Walther, Winnetka, Illinois
600 shares of Ameriprise Financial, Inc., common stock
for support in the  Stephen  M. Ross School of Business............................................. 25,071
Douglas W. Wanty, Ann Arbor
for the  Cardiovascular  Center...........................................................10,000
Kenneth E. Warner, Ann Arbor
for the Robert N. Hensinger Endowed Lectureship in the Medical School and scholarships and
other support in the  School of Public  Health...............................................  10,100
Patricia A. Warner, Ann Arbor
for support in the Center for the Education of Women and for the C. S. Mott Children's
Hospital Construction  Project Fund......................................................  10,050
Woodward A. Warrick, Jr., Plymouth
Various corporate common stock and mutual fund units
for the Wrestling Facility Fund in the Department of Athletics.............................. 250,328
James L. Waters, Muskegon
for the James L. and Nancy A. Waters Charitable Gift Annuity, the Alden J. (Butch)
Carpenter Law Memorial Fund, and other support in the Law School.......................... 150,000
Walter J. Weber, Ann Arbor
for the Walter J. Weber, Jr. Professorship in the College of Engineering........................ 25,000
Roy E. and Carol W. Weber Charitable Lead Trust
for the Roy E. Weber General Thoracic Surgery Research Fund in the Medical School..............25,000
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Ken Doherty Scholarship Fund and other support in the Department of Athletics,
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and for the Wege Foundation
Environmental Policy Gift Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy....................54,500

180



December Meeting, 2005

Jerome A. Weinberger, Cleveland, Ohio
1,000 shares of National City common stock
for the Jerome A. and Joy W. Weinberger Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate
benefit of the Weinberger Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Music.................... 34,870
Walter H. Weiner Philanthropic Fund of the Anti-Defamation League Foundation, New York, New York
for the Building Fund in the Law School............................................ 20,000
Elise I. Weisbach, Ann Arbor
924 shares of Comcast Corporation common stock
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art........................................ 24,551
Ronald N. Weiser, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society...................................................... 10,000
Barry A. Weisfeld, Scarsdale, New York
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 10,000
Leo G. Weiss, Cockeysville, Maryland
1,600 shares of UnitedHealth Group, Inc., common stock
for support in the School of Dentistry...................................................  100,040
James Howard Wells, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
1,000 shares of Citigroup, Inc., common stock
for the James H. and Mary R. Wells Endowed Fund in the Medical School................... 48,790
Henry E. and Consuelo S. Wenger, Pound Ridge, New York
for the Architecture Alumni Scholarship Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning and for support in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies.......... 11,000
Patricia A. Werderitsch, Saline
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................. 11,600
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and the Medical School............ 2,975,896
Clayton E. Wilhite, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics, for the Matthaei Botanical
Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund, and for the University Musical Society.................... 14,750
James A. Williams, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics and for Alumni M-PACT Fund..... 26,800
Rita L. Willis, Tulsa, Oklahoma
2,000 shares of Exxon Mobil common stock
for the Rita L. Willis Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Sidney Morse
Willis and Rita Louise Willis Endowment Fund for the Life Sciences Institute................... 117,700
Judy and Fred Wilpon Family Foundation, Great Neck, New York
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 312,500
Harold G. Wilson, Cincinnati, Ohio
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................................... 10,000
Carl D. Winberg, Pasadena, California
for the Carl D. Winberg M.D. Dean's Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and for support in the University Library, in memory of Marian Davis Winberg
and Kent David Hertzing........................................................ 17,500
Ronald Winter, Ossineke
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................. 19,600
Nancy J. Wolf, Stamford, Connecticut
for the Nancy J. Wolf Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the School of Education
and for the Michigan League..................................................... 10,025
Lauren A. Woods, Albany, California
for the Dr. Lauren and Carol O. Woods Fund in the Medical School........................... 50,000
World Heritage Foundation, Trenton
for the Heinz C. Prechter Bipolar Research Fund in the Medical School......................... 18,792
Phyllis B. Wright, Ann Arbor
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre in the School of Music and for WFUM........ 10,035
Zatkoff Family Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Zatkoff Family Football Scholarship and other support in the Department of
Athletics and for the Women's Lacrosse Program........................................ 51,598
Stanley R. Zax, Woodland Hills, California
1,000 shares of Zenith National Insurance Corporation common stock
forsupportintheLaw School.................................................... 47,625
Zell Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Helen Zell Fund for Graduate Student Support and the Helen Zell Fund for the
MFA Program in Creative Writing in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 750,000
Lonny E. Zietz, Ada
366 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Department of Athletics and for the James R. Hayward Professorship
inthe School ofDentistry..................................... 10,730

181



December Meeting, 2005

Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:

Andrew Abel, Pinckney
Richard N. Adams, Cincinnati, Ohio
Terence E. Adderley Fund of the Community
Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
Ainar D. Aijala, Jr., New York, New York
Alden Foundation, New York, New York
Richard J. Alder, Jr., Westland
Andrew H. Aldrich, Southfield
Suzan Alexander, Ann Arbor
Richard R. Allen, Greensboro, North Carolina
American Association of Colleges of Nursing,
Washington, D. C.
American Association of University Women, Ann Arbor
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
Anonymous Donor
Anonymous Donor
Michelle J. Arden, Palo, Alto, California
Debra A. Armbruster, Centennial, Colorado
ARS Michigan-Detroit, Southfield
Norman E. Barnett, Jr., Ann Arbor
Barr Group, Inc., Southfield
James A. Bellamy, Ann Arbor
Bello Vino Marketplace, Ann Arbor
Berry Foundation, Ann Arbor
Binder Family Trust
George and June Block Family Foundation, Chicago,
Illinois
Boardwalk, Dearborn
Mark E. Borowski, Westlake Village, California
Edward L. Bowe, Ann Arbor
Dale E. Briggs, Ann Arbor
Florence L. Brownfain, Bloomfield Hills
David M. Bunzel, Scarsdale, New York
Peter W. Butler, Winnetka, Illinois
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
Marilou J. Capo, Birmingham
James E. Carpenter, Ann Arbor
Jung Hoon Chang, Hong Kong, People's Republic of
China
Cheryl S. Chapekis, Dublin, Ohio
David M. Cheek, Midland
ChevronTexaco, Concord, California
Ralph B. Clemens, Jupiter, Florida
Wayne N. Colquitt, Ann Arbor
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
Hal Cooper, Beverly Hills, California
Dan L. Curtis, Las Vegas, Nevada
CVS Charitable Trust, Inc., Woonsocket, Rhode Island
John Czajkowski, Shelby Township
Dennis Dahlmann
Dana Corporation, Toledo, Ohio
Joseph P. D'Angelo, Bloomfield Hills
John C. Dann, Dexter
Deborah and Stephen D'Arcy Fund of the Community
Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
James E. Daverman, Glencoe, Illinois
Helen Davis Charitable Lead Trust
Dearborn Rotary Foundation, Dearborn
Loren J. DeHaan, Cadillac
Irwin F. Deister, Jr., Fort Wayne, Indiana

Robert J. DeLap, Morris Plains, New Jersey
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
Robert A. DeMattia, Plymouth
David A. DeMuro, New York, New York
Brian S. Dervishi, Miami, Florida
Timothy L. Dickinson, Ann Arbor
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
N. Reed Dunnick, Ann Arbor
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
John M. Ellenwood, Waterford
Robert S. Ellis, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
LeRoy A. Engelhardt, Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin
Jerome D. Farmer II, Ann Arbor
Frank B. Fehsenfeld, Grand Rapids
Murray J. Feiwell, Carmel, Indiana
Richard A. Ferrington, Santa Rosa, California
Joan Fisch, Palo Alto, California
Fisher-Cummings Family Fund of the Community
Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
Steven Fishman, Detroit
William and Lisa Ford Foundation, Dearborn
H. and M. Fosler Fund of the Fidelity Investments
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Robert E. Furdak, Wellesley, Massachusetts
Charles E. Furr, Kailua, Hawaii
Garden Club of Dearborn, Dearborn Heights
Richard A. Garfinkel, Potomac, Maryland
David M. Gates, Ann Arbor
Harold W. and Helen L. Gehring Trust
Genada Foundation, Damariscotta, Maine
Joanne Rice Gerhart, Ann Arbor
Ralph E. Goldberg, New York, New York
Paul W. Goldstein, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
John J. Gordon, Bloomington, Illinois
Graham Foundation for the Advanced Studies in the
Fine Arts, Chicago, Illinois
Steven F. Greenwald, San Francisco, California
Barbara V. Grinke, Royal Oak
James B. Griswold, Cleveland, Ohio
Allen Grossman, San Francisco, California
Jacob W. Haas, Ann Arbor
Norman P. Hahn Estate
Linda B. Halsey, East Lansing
Jeffrey P. Halvorson, Belmont
Sheldon and Eva Hamburger Philanthropic Fund of the
United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan Detroit,
Bloomfield Hills
Jean R. Hamill, Plymouth
Michael A. Hamilton, Edina, Minnesota
Jerry F. Hanlon, Ann Arbor
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, PLC, Troy
Marian E. Harris, Lakewood, New Jersey
Corinne Hawkins, Alton, Illinois
Martha S. Hearron, Kalamazoo
Mitchell L. Henderson, Birmingham
Nelson M. Hersh, Orchard Lake
Michael S. Hokin, Scarsdale, New York
Mark S. Hopkins, Alpharetta, Georgia
Virginia Horvath Trust
Elizabeth Hubbs, Ann Arbor

182



December Meeting, 2005

Joseph L. Hudson IV, Madison, Wisconsin
William F. Hunting, Jr., Andover, New Hampshire
David L. Huntoon, Ann Arbor
Inman Family Foundation, Grosse Pointe Shores
Robert M. Itami, Northridge, California
Olive G. Jacobs Estate
Cherry H. Jacobus, Grand Rapids
Phillip R. Jacobus, Grand Rapids
Japan Foundation, Tokyo, Japan
Jill and Mark Rachesky Charitable Foundation, New
York, New York
Kiehner Johnson, Columbus, Ohio
Justice & Monroe Advertising, LLC, Grand Rapids
Max Kade Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
Lynn M. Kalinowski, Marshall
Douglas I. Kalish, Palo Alto, California
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
Carol J. Kerr, Kent City
Douglas S. Kelbaugh, Ann Arbor
Sara L. Kellerman, Riverdale, New York
Charles L. Kelly, Traverse City
Robert C. Kelsch, Ann Arbor
David B. Kennedy, Ann Arbor
George R. Kerwin, Southfield
Daniel J. Kheel Trust
Catherine L. Kimbrough, Grand Blanc
Jamie Baker Knauss, San Marino, California
Stephen T. Kochis, San Francisco, California
James J. Kochkodan, Dearborn
Carl A. Kreager, Fort Myers, Florida
Lacks Industries, Inc., Grand Rapids
Susan Lane, Shelby Township
Nicole D. P. Latimer, Darnestown, Maryland
Lead Program in Business, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Hiram Levy II, New Hope, Pennsylvania
Kirk Lewis, Boise, Idaho
J. May Liang, Great Falls, Virginia
Jerome B. Libin, Washington, D. C.
Linda Yuen-Ching Lim, Ann Arbor
Daniel E. Little, Dearborn
David B. Love, Chicago, Illinois
Lumigen, Inc., Southfield
Jill A. Macklem, Seattle, Washington
Lawrence A. Macklem, Ann Arbor
Mako Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
John D. Mall Trust
Oliver Dewey Marcks Foundation, Detroit
Martin Family Foundation, Ann Arbor
Steven W. Martineau, Mount Pleasant
Christine Matoian, Bloomfield Hills
Matthew L. Riley Living Trust
Christine D. May, Rochester Hills
Jerry A. and Deborah Orr May, Ann Arbor
Brian F. McCabe, Iowa City, Iowa
Michael F. McCarthy, Atlanta, Georgia
SunMee L. McClatchey, Washington, D. C.
Mary McCully, Falls Church, Virginia
Mark A. McDowell, Mullica Hill, New Jersey
Anne L. McGrew, Walnut Creek, California
Merck Company Foundation, Whitehouse Station, New
Jersey
Roger F. Meyer, Grosse Pointe
Susan B. Meyer, San Francisco, California
David L. Miller, Grand Blanc

Laura A. Miller, Alexandria, Virginia
Leonard G. Miller, Williamsburg, Virginia
Marion E. Mills Trust
Jeffrey H. Miro, Bloomfield Hills
MK&A Corporation, Chicago, Illinois
Jack A. Molenkamp, Washington, D. C.
Michael H. Morris Fund of the Schwabb Fund for
Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
William T. Muir, Franklin, Tennessee
Robert J. Mylord, Jr., New Canaan, Connecticut
Brendan T. Nedzi, Montclair, New Jersey
John M. Nehra, Baltimore, Maryland
Kenneth E. Nelson, Irvington, New York
George J. Nichols, Jr., Jupiter, Florida
Virginia Stewart Nicklas, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Ronald P. Nordgren, Houston, Texas
Marylen S. Oberman, Ann Arbor
Ronald L. Olson, Los Angeles, California
Olson Dental Company, Inc., Mount Clemens
Martha Hecht Pascal, Evanston, Illinois
John C. Peirce, Ann Arbor
Louis Perlmutter, New York, New York
Drew Peslar, Birmingham
Peter L. Jolivette Trust
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
Pi Kappa Alpha, Ann Arbor
Sidney L. Pilson, Nashville, Tennessee
Barbara L. Piper Trust
Judith A. Pitney, Ann Arbor
Laurence J. Pons, Ann Arbor
Jennifer R. Poteat, Ann Arbor
Jan Pryor, Ann Arbor
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago,
Illinois
James G. Ravin, Toledo, Ohio
Riley S. Rees, Ann Arbor
Richard Petty Driving Experience, Inc., Concord, North
Carolina
Robert W. Richards, Highland
Mark J. Richardson, Santa Monica, California
Kirsten L. Roberts, New York, New York
Kenneth J. Robinson, Bloomfield Hills
John H. Romani, Ann Arbor
Janice L. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
Jack A. Rounick, Radnor, Pennsylvania
David A. Sachs, Ann Arbor
San Francisco Foundation, San Francisco, California
Frederick C. Schafrick, Washington, D. C.
Richard A. Schirtzer, Malibu, California
Charles E. Schultz, Jacksonville, Arkansas
Laura U. Schwartz, Sands Point, New York
Van Edward Scott, Muskegon
Mark K. Setter, Port Huron
Jean Whittemore Sharp, South Bend, Indiana
Karen H. Shook, Washington, D. C.
Martin H. Singer, Northbrook, Illinois
Joan K. Slocum, Naples, Florida
Spectrum Health, Grand Rapids
Norman M. Spindelman, Fort Myers, Florida
Seth Sprague Educational and Charitable Foundation,
New York, New York
Thomas G. Stafford, Rocky River, Ohio
David M. Stahl, Chicago, Illinois
Mark J. Stein, New York, New York

183



December Meeting, 2005

Joseph D. Stern, Greensboro, North Carolina
Charles E. Sweet, Jr., Longboat Key, Florida
Visteon, Livonia
FBO TenBroeck Trust
Charles E. Thomas, Jr., Lemoyne, Pennsylvania
Tisch, Inc., Ann Arbor
Leo W. Tobin III, Heathsville, Virginia
John A. Tompkins, Jr., Sausalito, California
John G. Topliss, Ann Arbor
Carlton E. Tripp, Sr. Estate
Ronald E. Trunsky, Orchard Lake
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
University of Michigan Alumni of Orange County
Scholarship Funds, Orange, California
John K. Villa, Washington, D. C.
Jeffrey E. Weintraub, Rockville, Maryland
Paul F. Werler, Minneapolis, Minnesota

Frederick T. Waldeck, Los Angeles, California
Sydney P. Waldorf, Richland
D. Wehlitz and M. Berg Fund of the Schwab Fund for
Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
G. Dekle Taylor, Jacksonville, Florida
TECO-Westinghouse Motor Company, Round Rock,
Texas
Raymond I. Wilcox, Houston, Texas
Kenneth D. Williams, Olympia Fields, Illinois
Jay A. Werschky, Flint
John R. Wheeler, Chelsea
Kenneth Whipple, Jr., Bloomfield Hills
Helen P. White Estate
Thomas P. Wolfe, Troy
Woodhaven Run in the Park, Woodhaven
Shigeto Yamamoto, Burbank, California

Personnel Actions and Personnel Reports. Provost Gramlich submitted a
number of personnel actions and personnel reports. He highlighted recommendations
for the reappointment of Robert Dolan as dean of the Stephen M. Ross School of
Business and Interim Dean Deborah Ball as dean of the School of Education.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective January 1, 2006
Hunter, Mark D., B.A., Phil., Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, and Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Myers, Jeffrey L., M.D., Professor of Pathology, Medical School
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective January 1, 2006-December 31, 2009
Kulper, Perry, M.Arch., B.S., Associate Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
Dolan, Robert J., Dean, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Batterman, Stuart, Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, with tenure, School of Public Health,
also appointed Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, without tenure, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2008
Green, Peter F., Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, with tenure, and Chair, Department of
Materials Science and Engineering, also appointed Professor of Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008

184



December Meeting, 2005

LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Nguyen, Clark T. C., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, extension of current leave from May 28-December 31, 2005
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective December 15, 2005
Renaming of an Existing Collegiate Professorship to an Endowed Professorship
S.P. Hicks Collegiate Professorship in Pathology renamed the S.P. Hicks Endowed Professorship in
Pathology, Medical School
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Ball, Deborah Lowenberg, Dean, School of Education, December 16, 2005-August 31, 2010
Boehnke, Michael Lee, Richard G. Cornell Collegiate Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health,
December 1, 2005-November 30, 2010
Brenner, Dean E., Kutsche Memorial Chair of Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 15,
2005-August 31, 2010
Bucksbaum, Philip H., correction of academic titles to Peter Franken Distinguished University Professor
of Physics, and Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005
Eklund, Susan M., Associate Vice President for Student Affairs/Dean of Students, Office of the Vice
President for Student Affairs, July 1, 2006-June 30, 2009
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., correction of academic titles to Arthur E. Link Distinguished University Professor
of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, and Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005
Marcus, Joyce, correction of academic titles to Robert L. Carneiro Distinguished University Professor of
Anthropology, and Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2005
Munroe, Derwin S., Chair, Department of Political Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1-June 30, 2006
Stewart, Abigail J., correction of academic titles to Sandra Schwartz Tangri Distinguished University
Professor of Psychology and Women's Studies, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and
Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 1, 2005
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
School of Public Health Executive Committee
Raghunathan, Trivellore E., January 1-August 31, 2006, vice Roderick J. Little, on sabbatical leave
Personnel Reports. Provost Courant submitted the following personnel reports.
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Bhattacharyya, Hrishikesh, M.B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in Business, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, November 1-December 31, 2005
Coade, Caroline L., M.Mus., Lecturer in Music, School of Music, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Feng, Meihua R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Medicinal Chemistry, College of Pharmacy, November 1,
2005-April 30, 2006
Guillot, Denise M., M.A., Lecturer I in Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2006
Ghattas, Joseph, M.A., Lecturer I in Communication and Visual Arts, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, January 1-April 30, 2006
Hegarty, Kathleen Q., J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Law, Law School, January 1-April 30, 2006

185



December Meeting, 2005

Joswick, David D., J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Law, Law School, January 1-April 30, 2006
Kantor, Allyn D., J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Law, Law School, January 1-April 30, 2006
Lavery, Kathleen A., M.S., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1-December 30, 2005
Levy, Judith E., J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Law, Law School, January 1-April 30, 2006
Mahler, Catherine A., M.Ed., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1-December 31, 2005
Nadeau, Thomas P., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2006
Nemecek, Tim, M.P.A., Lecturer I in Health Sciences and Administration, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, January 1-April 2006
Singh-Brinkman, Nirmala, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2006
Sorzano, Lyndon B., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Music, School of Music, September 1-December 31,
2005
Tropman, Matthew J., B.M.A., Lecturer in Music, School of Music, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Tschannen, Dana J., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
VanOrder, Robert A., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Finance, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
January 1-February 28, 2006
VanPutten, Mark C., J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Law, Law School, January 1-April 30, 2006
Zavislak, Kay, M.M., Intermittent Lecturer in Music, School of Music, January 1-April 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS'
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective January 1-May 31, 2006
Zimmerman, Enid J., Ph.D., Lecturer IV in American Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, personal leave
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURER'S
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on dates indicated
Bentley, Courtney B., M.A., Adjunct Lecturer in Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, resigned, November 4, 2005
Steneck, Margaret L., Ph.D., Lecturer II in History, Residential College, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, retired, December 31, 2005
CORRECTION TO TERMINATION OF INSTRUCTIONAL
STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective December 31, 2005
Struble, Laura M., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Nursing, School of Nursing, previously reported as December
21, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Criado-Pallares, Enrique, M.D., Clinical Professor of Surgery, Medical School, December 1,
2005-November 30, 2010
Haider, Naeem, M.B.B.S., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, November 1,
2005-October 2006
Hull, Liese A., M.P.P. Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Hunter, Mary C. R., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural
Resources and Environment, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2009
Ku, Pei-Zheng, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2006-May 31, 2008
Notbohm, Andrew D., M.S., Instructor in Navy Officer Education Program, United States Naval Officer
Education Program, November 1, 2005-December 31, 2007

186



December Meeting, 2005

Oliver, Diane G., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychology, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Rauch, Sheila, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, November 1, 2005-October 31,
2007
Rodriguez, Gianna M., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical
School, November 1, 2005-October 31, 2006
Ruffino, Michele, M.A., Lecturer I in Comprehensive Studies Program, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, July 1-August 31, 2005
Schultz, Karl F., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, October 26,
2005-August 31, 2006
Talsma, Akke N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, October 1, 2005-May 31,
2006
Tsao, Yi-Pin, D.D.S., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, October 1,
2005-September 30, 2008
Wryobeck, John M., Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Psychiatry, Medical School, November 1, 2005-June 30,
2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adusumilli, Saroja, from Assistant Professor of Radiology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology,
Medical School September 28, 2005-September 27, 2006
Dalton, Vanessa K., from Clinical Lecturer in Obstetrics and Gynecology to Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, November 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
DeYoung, Sandra M. T., from Assistant Professor of Dance to Clinical Associate Professor of Dance,
School of Music, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2009
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Das, Sunil K., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 1, 2005-August 31,
2006
Fischer, Theodore V., Associate Professor Emeritus of Cell and Developmental Biology, Medical School,
January 1-April 30, 2006
Goldstein, Irwin J., Professor Emeritus of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, January 1-December
31, 2006
Ingram, William, Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2006
Jacobs, Stanley J., Professor Emeritus of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences and Professor
Emeritus of Applied Mechanics and Engineering Science, College of Engineering, January 1-April
30, 2006
Jourdian, George W., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine and Professor Emeritus of Biological
Chemistry, Medical School, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Kostyo, Jack L., Professor Emeritus of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Medical School, January 1,
2005-December 31, 2006
Oakley, Deborah J., Professor Emerita of Nursing, School of Nursing, June 1, 2005-June 30, 2006
Powers, Lyall H., Professor Emeritus of English Language and Literature and Professor Emeritus of
Curriculum Support, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-April 30,
2006
Wolfe, Robert A., Professor Emeritus ofBiostatistics, School of Public Health, July 1, 2005-May 31,
2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adams, William J., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006

187



December Meeting, 2005

Ashe, Arthur J., III, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2008
Blum, Joel D., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, and Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary
Biology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2006
Bonner, Michael D., Associate Professor of Islamic History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
History, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2006
Clague, Mark A., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, duty off campus leave, January 1-May
31, 2006
Coran, Arnold G., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, duty off campus leave, January
1-June 30, 2006
Cowley, Charles R., Professor of astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
D'Errico, Celia M., Clinical Associate Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, personal leave,
September 7, 2005-September 6, 2006
Ekotto, Frieda, Associate Professor of French, with tenure, and Associate Professor of Comparative
Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave,
January 1-May 31, 2006
Evrard, August, Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Freedman, Jonathan E., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
American Studies, with tenure, Program in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Gingerich, Philip D., Ermine Cowles Case Collegiate Professor of Paleontology, Professor of Geological
Sciences, with tenure, Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, without tenure, and
Professor of Anthropology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus leave, November 9-December 7, 2006
Hallak, Juan C., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, teaching
leave, January 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Hanlon-Lundberg, Kathleen M., Clinical Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical
School, personal leave, October 1, 2005-September 30, 2006
Hickman, Leaden, Assistant Professor of Health Science and Administration, UM-Flint School of Health
Professions and Studies, personal leave, September 23, 2005-March 22, 2006
Hughes, Paul M., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, scholarly activity leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Ionides, Edward L., Assistant Professor of Statistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Kiliam, Lutz, Associate Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Kuhn, William R., Professor of Atmospheric Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, retirement
furlough, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
Lawler, John M., Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Linn, William J., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, UM-Dearborn,
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, personal leave, September 20-December 31, 2005
Lozoff, Betsy, Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Medical School, and
Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, without tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical
leave, January 1-December 31, 2006
Majersik, Jennifer J., Clinical Lecturer in Neurology, Medical School, personal leave, October
28-November 14, 2005
McLaughlin, Renate, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Montoya, Maria E., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of American
Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2005
Moseley, Richard H., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
December 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Nelson, Patrick W., Assistant Professor of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Reuter-Lorenz, Patricia A., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Samuels, Allen J., Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2005, and retirement furlough, January 1, 2008-December 31, 2009

188



December Meeting, 2005

Silverman, Daniel S., Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Spector, Scott D., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly
activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Trepanier-Street, Mary L., Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearbom School of Education,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2006
Vedejs, Edwin, Moses Gomberg Collegiate Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Chemistry, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2006
Ward, Stephen M., Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African Studies and Assistant Professor of
Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Werner, Earl E., Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2005
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Becker, Michael W., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 15, 2005
Bernard, Kerri A., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31, 2005
Clarke, Michael F., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Cell and Developmental
Biology, without tenure, Medical School, October 28, 2005
Schmaier, Alvin H., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Pathology, without
tenure, Medical School, November 30, 2005
Yazdani, Ali, Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 30, 2005
Zvi, Margaliot, Clinical Lecturer in Surgery, Medical School, August 31, 2005
Retired
Burt, Brian A., Professor of Dental Public Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, December 31,
2005
Chen, Michael M., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, December
31, 2005
Kyes, Robert L., Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
December 31, 2005
McLaughlin, Renate, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
August 31, 2006
Miskel, Cecil G., Professor of Education, with tenure, School of Education, January 31, 2006
Term Completed
Mizrachi, Iris Ben-Bassat, Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
October 31, 2005
Sneider, Raymond B., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, October 14, 2005
Somanathan, Rohini, Assistant Professor of Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
October 31, 2005
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 3 retiring
faculty members.
Brian A. Burt, Ph.D., professor of dental public health in the School of Public
Health and adjunct clinical professor in the School of Dentistry, will retire from active
faculty status on December 31, 2005.
Professor Burt received his B.DSc. degree from the University of Western
Australia in 1960, his M.P.H. degree from the University of Michigan in 1966, and his
Ph.D. degree from the University of London in 1973. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty in 1974 as a visiting associate professor of dental public health; he
was appointed associate professor in 1976 and promoted to professor in 1981. He was
appointed associate professor of dentistry in 1976 and promoted to professor in 1987.

189



December Meeting, 2005

He became clinical professor of dentistry in 1989, adjunct professor in 1993, and
adjunct clinical professor in 2001.
A leader in the field of dental public health, Professor Burt has made
ground-breaking contributions, including several classic papers and a book, co-authored
with Dr. Stephen Eklund, that is considered the basic text in the field. Professor Burt's
research has largely centered on identifying risk factors for caries and periodontal
diseases and on prevention of these conditions at the community level. In particular, he
has focused on the effectiveness of fluoride in retarding caries development both in
public health and in dental practice. He is currently working with colleagues on a
federally-funded project, the Detroit Center for Research on Oral Health Disparities. He
was appointed director of the Program in Dental Public Health in 1983, and served as
chair of the Department of Community Health Programs from 1985-95.
Professor Burt has received the Distinguished Service Award from the
American Association of Public Health Dentistry and the H. Trendley Dean
Distinguished Scientist Award from the International Association for Dental Research.
He is the editor of Community Dentistry and Oral Epidemiology, and in 1997, he was
named a Diplomate of the American Board of Dental Public Health.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Brian A. Burt professor emeritus of dental public health.
Michael M. Chen, Ph.D., professor of mechanical engineering in the College of
Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2005.
Professor Chen received his B.S. degree from the University of Illinois at
Urbana- Champaign in 1955 and his S.M. and Ph.D. degrees from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in 1957 and 1961, respectively. He was an assistant professor at
Yale University from 1963-69, associate professor at New York University from
1969-73, and professor at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign from
1973-91. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as a professor in 1991.
As a scholar of unusual depth and range, Professor Chen seamlessly integrates
the areas of thermo-fluid sciences--fluid mechanics, heat transfer, thermodynamics,
applied mathematics, and numerical analysis--with a clarity of thinking that is amazing
to his colleagues. He has applied his understanding of these physical sciences to such
problems as melting, welding, radiation, optical devices, biological systems, blood
flow, interaction of lasers with materials, development of scientific instruments,
transport in fluidized beds, and porous media. Above all, he has investigated these
diverse phenomena both experimentally and theoretically with equal ease. A first-rate
scientist and original thinker, Professor Chen is completing a unique book on
convection heat transfer that explains his methodology for formulating and solving
physical problems, and he recently developed a revolutionary numerical method for
solving two-phase moving boundary problems.
Professor Chen is the author of two other books, ten book chapters, and nearly two
hundred other publications. From 1991-93 he served as the director of the Thermal
Transport and Thermal Processing Program at the National Science Foundation. His
honors include the prestigious ASME Heat Transfer Memorial Award and election as an
ASME Fellow. Professor Chen is a kind and caring teacher whose advice is sought and
valued by students and colleagues alike.
The Regents now salute this faculty member by naming Michael M. Chen
professor emeritus of mechanical engineering.

190



December Meeting, 2005

Robert L. Kyes, Ph.D., professor of German in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on December 31, 2005.
Professor Kyes received his A.B. degree from the University of Michigan in
1958, his A.M. degree from Brown University in 1959, and his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Michigan in 1964. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
instructor in 1962 and was promoted to assistant professor in 1964, associate professor
in 1968, and professor in 1974.
Professor Kyes has achieved great distinction nationally and internationally as a
scholar of Old Franconian and Old Saxon. He is a recognized and widely respected
authority on the history of the Germanic languages and has authored, co-authored, or
co-edited seven books and monographs concerning historical linguistics as it relates to the
Germanic languages. His published articles and book reviews range impressively across
topics as diverse as Dutch phonology, pedagogy, and language attitudes in sixteenth and
seventeenth century Germany. He was the co-recipient of a grant from the National
Endowment of the Humanities for reconstructing the grammar of Proto-Germanic, a
project of great value to the field of historical linguistics.
Within the classroom, Professor Kyes was recognized as an excellent teacher who
taught rigorous courses on the history of the German language, German dialectology, and
various Germanic languages. He served as the undergraduate concentration advisor from
1995-2002 and received the Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Concentration
Advising in 1999. In appreciation for his dedicated instruction, his former graduate
students published a Festschrift in his honor in 2000, and another of his former students
established the endowed Mun-Kyes Fund to help support graduate student research in
Germanic linguistics. Professor Kyes served as chair of the Department of Germanic
Languages and Literatures from 1985-1995 and was a key architect of the department's
embrace of radical interdisciplinarity, for which it has received national and international
recognition.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Robert L. Kyes professor
emeritus of German.
Memorials. Vice President Churchill reported the deaths of two faculty members:
John Omnaas, assistant research scientist in the College of Pharmacy, and Thomas
Carli, assistant dean and associate professor of psychiatry in the Medical School.
Formal memorial statements will be included in the January agenda.
Degrees. There are no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda. Regent White left
the meeting at this point, at 3:00 p.m., and therefore did not vote on any of the agenda
items.
Fiscal Year 2007 Capital Outlay Submission All Campuses
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted for information the capital outlay
requests for Fiscal Year 2007. Included in the request are three projects for the Ann
Arbor campus, one project for the Dearborn campus, and no projects for the Flint
campus.

191



December Meeting, 2005

Supplemental Information to the Audited Financial Statements of the Department
of Intercollegiate Athletics of the University of Michigan for the Year Ended June
30, 2005
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted supplemental information to the
audited financial statements of the Department of Intercollegiate Athletics for the year
ended June 30, 2005.
Alternative Asset Commitments
The Regents were informed of two follow-on investments that have been made to
previously approved partnerships: $15 million to Cabot Industrial Value Fund II, L.P.
(real estate fund) and $40 million to Avenue Special Situations Fund IV (distressed
debt).
New Absolute Return Investment and Alternative Asset Commitments
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
approved the following commitments:
* $40 million from  the University Investment Pool to NGP Income
Co-Investment Opportunities Fund II, L.P. (absolute return)
* $35 million from the Long Term Portfolio to Greenfield Land Partners I,
L.P. (real estate)
* $15.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to IDG-Accel China Growth
Fund I, L.P. (venture capital investments in China)
Engineering Research Buildings 1 and 2 Optics Group Laboratory Renovation
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the Engineering Research Buildings 1 and 2 Optics Group
Laboratory Renovation Project as described in the Regents Communication, and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
Fletcher Street Parking Structure Structural Repairs
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the Fletcher Street Parking Structure Structural Repairs Project
as described in the Regents Communication, and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Multiple Buildings Asbestos Abatement Project
Regent Newman moved approval of an asbestos abatement project in buildings
planned for demolition as a result of the Stephen M. Ross School of Business Facilities
Enhancement Project, and authorization for issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget. Regent
Maynard seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
University of Michigan-Flint David M. French Hall Renovations
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan-Flint David M. French Hall
Renovations Project as described in the Regents Communication, and authorized
commissioning DSA Architects, LLC for its design.

192



December Meeting, 2005

University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute Fire Alarm System
Upgrade and Fire Suppression System Installation
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Transportation Research Institute
Fire Alarm System Upgrade and Fire Suppression System Installation Project as
described in the Regents Communication, and authorized issuing the project for bids
and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Student Activities Building Renovation Project
Executive Vice President Slottow introduced Jim Meredith, principal at Gensler
Architects, to present the schematic design for renovations to the Student Activities
Building. Mr. Meredith displayed floor plans and other renderings and described how
the renovations and enhancements would increase the efficiency and effectiveness of
people who work in the building. The building will also become more transparent to
students, making it easier and more convenient for them to obtain services from offices
located in that building. Equally important, the renovations will help attract prospective
students to the University.
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that the renovation will transcend
organizational barriers. With staff from three vice presidential areas providing services
to students in this building, the space will be restructured in a way that is seamless to
students. It was noted that there is space available within the building to be used to
temporarily house offices displaced during the renovation.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the schematic design for the Student Activities Building
Renovation Project as presented at the meeting.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Cardiovascular
Center Project Phase I Operating Room Expansion
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
Cardiovascular Center Project Phase I Operating Room Expansion project as described,
authorized commissioning the architectural firm of Shepley, Bulfinch, Richardson and
Abbott for its design, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) North Ingalls
Building Caf6 Renovations
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) North Ingalls Building Cafe Renovations Project as described, authorized
commissioning the engineering firm of Stantec Consulting Michigan, Inc. for its
design, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts
providing that bids are within the approved budget.

193



December Meeting, 2005

University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital Nuclear Medicine Pharmacy Renovation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) Nuclear Medicine Pharmacy Renovation Project as described, authorized
commissioning the architectural firm of HarleyEllis for its design, and authorized
issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are
within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital Observation Unit Renovation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) University Hospital Observation Unit Renovation Project as described in the
Regents Communication, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding
construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved project budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes five conflict of interest
items, each of which requires six votes for approval. Regent Richner requested recusal
from the request for a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan and
Innovative Biotherapies, Inc. Therefore, this item was considered separately from the
four other conflict items. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent
Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the following items:
Contract between the University of Michigan and Picocal, Inc.
The Regents approved a contract with Picocal, Inc., for the purchase of scanning
thermal probes. Because Angelo Gaitas, a shareholder and president of Picocal, Inc.,
and Yogesh Gianchandani, a shareholder of Picocal, Inc., are both University of
Michigan employees, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.  The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.  The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its
College of Engineering, and Picocal, Inc.
2.   The product provided is scanning thermal probes, for a total dollar amount of
$1,950.00.
3.  The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Angelo Gaitas and Yogesh
Gianchandani, both University of Michigan employees, are president shareholders of
Picocal, Inc.
Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan and GMP
Immunotherapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement between the
University of Michigan and GMP Immunotherapeutics, Inc. ("GMP") which involves
adding additional technologies to the original license agreement. Because Professors
Gary Glick and Anthony Opipari are both employees of the University of Michigan and
partial owners of GMP, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of

194



December Meeting, 2005

Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and GMP.
2.   Amendment terms include giving GMP an exclusive license with the right to grant
sublicenses to the technologies referenced in the Regents Communication. Additional
diligence and milestone payments will apply. The University will retain ownership of
the licensed technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Glick and Opipari arises from their ownership interest
in GMP.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Powerix Technologies,
LLC
The Regents approved an option agreement with Powerix Technologies, LLC
("Powerix"), to license from the University the technology entitled "Rotary Ramjet
Turbogenerator, invented by Professor Werner Dahm (UM File No. 2952). Because
Professor Jun Ni and Professor Werner Dahm are both University of Michigan
employees and members of the board of directors of Powerix, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Powerix Technologies,
LLC.
2.   Option terms include giving Powerix a one-year exclusive option to negotiate an
exclusive license with the right to grant sublicenses. Powerix will reimburse patent
costs during the term of the option agreement and would pay a royalty on sales and
reimburse patent costs if the option is exercised and a license is executed. The
University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it internally.
No other use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Professors Ni and Dahm arise from their ownership interest
in Powerix. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue
received by the University.
Research Agreement between the University of Michigan and Powerix
Technologies, LLC
The Regents approved a research agreement between the University of Michigan
and Powerix Technologies to fund a project in the College of Engineering in which the
principal investigator is Professor James Driscoll and co-investigator is Professor
Werner Dahm. Because Professors Jun Ni and Werner Dahm are both employees of the
University and partial owners and members of the board of directors of Powerix
Technologies, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The   following   information   is provided    in  compliance   with   statutory
requirements.

195



December Meeting, 2005

1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Powerix Technologies,
LLC.
2.   The total subcontract to the University will be $670,560.00 for the period September
1, 2005 through August 31, 2007. Since research agreements are often amended, the
agreement includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University
procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by
the Conflict of Interest Committee will be done as appropriate. The subcontract terms
are consistent with University policies and Regental bylaws.
3.   Professors Jun Ni and Werner Dahm's pecuniary interest arises from their status as
partial owners and board members of Powerix Technologies, LLC. Dr. Dahm will
only participate in the project as an employee of the University and Dr. Ni is not
involved in the project.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved a subcontract agreement between the University of Michigan
and Innovative Biotherapies, Inc. ("InnoBio"). Regent Richner recused himself from
participating in this matter due to a conflict of interest.
Because Dr. H. David Humes is both an employee of the University who will
serve a principal investigator on the subcontract, and a founder, owner, director and
officer of InnoBio, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The following    information  is provided   in  compliance with    statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and InnoBio.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. The project at the
University is to be conducted over an initial twelve-month period at an estimated total
cost of $125,937. Since research agreements are often amended, the agreement
includes provisions for changes in time, amount, and scope. University procedures for
approval of these changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of
Interest Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Humes' pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Innovative
Biotherapies.
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building Wireless Integrated
Measurement Systems Laboratory Renovation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building
Wireless Integrated Measurement Systems Laboratory Renovation Project as described
in the Regents Communication, and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
New Degree Program for the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
approved a new undergraduate degree program, "Bachelor of Arts in Public Policy," to
be offered by the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.
Revision to Regents' Bylaw 11.59 (The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics:
Organization)
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved revision to Regents' Bylaw 11.59, specifically with regard to the

196



December Meeting, 2005

role and responsibilities of the Academic Performance Committee. The revised bylaw
follows.
Regents' Bylaw   Sec. 11.59.  The Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics:
Organization (Additions are underlined; deletions are crossed out.)
Members of the Advisory Board will be appointed on or before the first of July each year. The
officers of the Advisory Board will be a chair, a secretary, and such other officers and
committees as will be authorized or chosen by the board. The director of athletics will be chair,
ex officio, without vote. The chair will act as presiding officer at board meetings and will act as
the board's general executive officer.
There will be a Committee on Academic Performance consisting of the faculty members of the
board- and- in additio  a representative of the registrar of the University. The committee will
report to and advise the provost and executive vice president for academic affairs and, subject to
the final authority of the provost, will have authority to examine and appraise the academic
performance of all e andidates for intercollegiate athletic teams athletes, to determine their
eligibility for competition in intercollegiate athletics, and to take any other action regarding such
candidates as may seem necessary or appropriate in under the circumstances.
A five-minute break followed.
Public Comments
The Public Comments session began at 4:10 p.m. The Regents heard comments
from  the following individuals, on the topics indicated:     Lauren Beyer O'Connell,
student, Richard Bole, student, and Rachel Baker, citizen, on environmentally
responsible design and construction of the new C.S. Mott Children's Hospital; Jim
Mogensen, citizen, on      fiduciary  responsibility  in  the  town-gown    relationship;
Alexandra Moffett-Bateau, student, Michael Smith, student and member of the MSA
Minority Affairs Commission, and Adrienne Waller, student and speaker of the Black
Student Union, on the topic of the Michigan Daily's climate and recent publications
regarding minorities; David Boyle, alumnus, on passage of a resolution not to invest in
Sudan; and Anne Handyside, student, on the effects of The Every Three Weekly campus
newspaper on campus climate.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 4:50 p.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for January 20, 2006.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretary of the University

197



December Meeting, 2005

198



JANUARY MEETING, 2006

The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
January 20, 2006
The Regents convened at 9:25 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Vice President and Secretary Churchill, Vice
President Forrest, Interim Provost Gramlich, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May,
Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, and
Vice President Wilbanks.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order. She welcomed Vice President
Steve Forrest to his first Regents' Meeting and commented on the recent campus MLK
Day activities. President Coleman also called attention to several recent deaths. She
noted that as a result of the successful conclusion of the provost search, she would be
recommending the appointment of Teresa Sullivan as provost and executive vice
president for academic affairs.
Presentation: "Making the Michigan Difference in the Liberal Arts"
President Coleman introduced Dean Terrence McDonald, who gave a presentation
about the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts (LSA). Dean McDonald first
showed a brief video depicting individual students expressing the difference that the
education they've received at Michigan has made in their lives. He then went on to
describe the college, noting that it is a comprehensive liberal arts college with more than
18,000 undergraduate and graduate students and more than 800 tenure-track faculty
members. More than 2,000 LSA courses are offered each semester, and 65 languages are
taught. In addition, 71 of the college's departments, programs, and fields of study are
ranked among the top 25 in the nation, and many of these are in the top 10 and top 5.
Dean McDonald observed that the college's graduation rates and first-year
retention rates are among the highest in the country, and many of its initiatives are
ranked among the best in the nation. He described a number of the college's academic
initiatives and research highlights, and described recently completed and under
construction new facilities that will benefit the college.
Dean McDonald noted that it is a continuous challenge for the college to recruit
and retain outstanding faculty and to maintain the undergraduate experience it provides
in the face of growing enrollment and reduced resources.
Following the presentation, Dean McDonald responded to questions from the
Regents regarding his biggest challenges and the increasing size of the first year class.
He commented that his biggest challenge is to maintain the college's outstanding faculty
and student body while responding to the University's fiscal situation. In response to a
question about the larger first year class size in recent years, he described measures

199



January Meeting, 2006

being taken to more accurately predict enrollment yield. He also noted that the college
has developed a system for adding extra class sections to deal with increased demand
created by the increased enrollment, so that students are not faced with increased class
sizes.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported that the
committee had covered three topics during its meeting the day before. The first was a
review of the first six months performance of the Hospitals and Health Centers (HHC)
and an update on the HHC 10-year strategic capital plan. Executive Vice President
Kelch, Interim Director and CEO Doug Strong, and Interim Chief Financial Officer
Tom Marks participated in this session. The committee then was updated on the
University's debt program, including capacity, structure, policies, and strategies, by
Associate Vice President Peggy Norgren, Treasurer Greg Tewksbury, and Assistant
Treasurer Milagros Dougan. Finally, the committee met with Carol Senneff, executive
director of University Audits, regarding the University-wide compliance strategy.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee. Regent Taylor reported
that the committee had received updates on search activities around the University and
conducted a number of housekeeping measures.
The Regents then turned to the consent agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of December 15, 2005.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, the Human Resources and Affirmative Action (HRAA) Report,
and the Regents' Report on Non-competitive Purchases over $5,000 from Single
Sources, September 16 through December 15, 2005. Regarding the HRAA report, he
commented that a four-year agreement had been signed with the International Union of
Operating Engineers.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report. Vice President Forrest submitted the Report of Projects
Established, December 1-December 31, 2005.
University of Michigan Health System. There was no additional report.
Division of Student Affairs. No report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Flint. No report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little called attention to the
establishment of the Richard E. Czarnecki Collegiate Professorship in the School of
Management.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. MSA President Jesse Levine commented
that this would be his last semester at the University and his undergraduate experience
had been extremely positive. He then enumerated some of the "big picture", long-term

200



January Meeting, 2006

issues that will continue to be of concern to MSA. These include off-campus housing,
campus safety, a strong relationship with Ann Arbor City Council.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May reported that the gift receipt total for the
December 2005 had been extraordinary, as had the number of gift pledges. The
campaign is within $7 million of reaching the $2 billion level of its $2.5 billion goal,
but a good deal more work will be required to reach this goal.
F. Kenneth Ackerman, Jr., Danville, Pennsylvania
867 shares of Fulton Financial Corporation common stock
for the John R. Griffith Leadership Center in the School of Public Health...................... $14,977
Actelion Pharmaceutical US, Inc., South San Francisco, California
for support in the Cardiovascular Center............................................... 75,000
Kedrick D. Adkins, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering, for the Arthur Andersen
Minority Scholarship Fund, the Dr. Alfred L. Edwards Black Alumni Association Scholarship Fund
and other support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, for support in the Law School,
and for the Dr. Martin Luther King Scholarship Fund..................................... 12,000
Adler Schermer Foundation, Aspen, Colorado
for the Walter Spink Ajanta Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 29,000
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, California
for support in the College of Engineering.............................................. 30,000
ALTA Analytical Laboratory, Inc., El Dorado Hills, California
for research in the School of Public Health.............................................. 20,000
Frank J. Ambrose, Bloomfield Hills
for the John R. Pfeifer Collegiate Professorship in Vascular Surgery in the Medical School......... 10,000
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................................. 119,868
American Council of Learned Societies, New York, New York
for the Charles A. Ryskamp Research Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts... 30,000
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 58,727
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 110,00
American Medical Association Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Medical School....................................................  20,000
Russell L. Anmuth, New York, New York
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 14,286
Anonymous Donor
for the Residential College Fund and the Exhibition of Art by Michigan Prisoners in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................................. 10,000
Anonymous Donor
220 shares of Chiron Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Museum of Zoology.......................................................... 19,422
Anonymous Donor
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program, Benny Friedman Fellowship in Sports
Journalism and for the University Library Campaign...................................... 250,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program, Benny Friedman Fellowship in Sports
Journalism, for the Askwith Fund for Innovation in Asthma and Allergy Management in
the School of Public Health, and for support in the University Library......................... 275,000
Anonymous Donor
for cardiovascular support in the Medical School......................................... 698,800
Ares Management II LP, Los Angeles, California
for the David and Meredith Kaplan Men's Basketball Endowed Scholarship Fund in
the Department of Athletics........................................................ 20,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School................................................  45,000
Deborah Rebeck Ash, Ann Arbor
for the Major McKinley Ash Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry and for
the University Musical Society................................................... 10,200
Association of Gnathology, Taipei City, Taiwan
for the Hornm-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry.............. 10,000
Bank of Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................. 23,500

201



January Meeting, 2006

Theodore and Mina Bargman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the University Musical Society................................................. 10,000
Marj Baril, Perrysburg, Ohio
for the James D. Baril, M.D., Orthopaedic Surgery Education Fund in the Medical School.......... 16,000
Andrew P. Barowsky Charitable Foundation, Auburn, Maine
for the Andrew P. Barowsky Endowed Faculty Research Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School
of Business................................................................25,000
Ben A. Beavers, Highland Park, Illinois
for support in the Law School, in memory of Roger C. Siske.................................. 25,000
Bendit Foundation, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland
for the Bendit Foundation Global Initiatives Fund in the Medical School........................ 25,000
Benedek Family Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Barbara and Peter Benedek Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..................................................................12,500
Alvin M. Bentley Foundation, Owosso
for the Alvin M. and Arvella D. Bentley Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
andtheArts...............................................................52,500
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
for the Berman Depression Research Fund in the Medical School............................. 10,000
Kenneth D. Betz, Rockford
3,850 shares of Burlington Resources, Inc., common stock and a cash gift for the Kenneth
and Judy Betz Fellowship Fund in the College of Engineering, for the River City Women's
Athletic Scholarship Fund and other support in the Department of Athletics, for the Kenneth
and Judy Betz Endowment Fund in the Law School, and for the Kenneth and Judy Betz
Family Medicine Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.............................. 334,391
Leo R. Beus, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the Building Fund in the Law School............................................... 500,000
Bruce P. Bickner, La Quinta, California
for the Building Fund in the Law School............................................... 100,000
Joan A. Bickner, La Quinta, California
for support in the Division of Kinesiology.............................................. 400,000
James K. Billman, Jr., Moline, Illinois
for the Kenneth D. McClatchey Scholarship Fund in the Medical School........................ 20,000
Elizabeth D. Black fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 30,000
Josef S. Blass, Pittsboro, North Carolina
for the Nicolaus Copernicus Collegiate Professorship and other support in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts....................................................... 25,200
Leland F. Blatt Family Foundation, Harper Woods
for the Blatt Family Neuroblastoma Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................. 100,000
Blum Enterprises East, Inc., Southfield
for the George and Joyce Blum Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Medical School. 70,000
Frederick W. W. Bolander, Hillsborough, California
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics................................... 11,150
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.................................................. 15,000
Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................ 125,000
Brehm Family Fund of the Fuller Foundation, Pasadena, California
for the Emeritus Professor Maxwell Reade Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 15,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for employee matching gifts........................................................ 10,250
Eli and Edythe L. Broad Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 66,034
Richard R. Burns, Duluth, Minnesota
205 shares of Schlumberger Ltd, common stock and a cash gift for scholarships in the Department
of Athletics and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the Building Fund in the
Law  School.................................................................    25,243
Cairn Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................. 20,000
Michael J. Callahan, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................... 10,000
Jeffrey E. Cappo, Ann Arbor
for the Jeffrey E. Cappo Hockey Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics........ 100,000
David Carlyon, Larchmont, New York
625 shares of Nabors Industries Ltd., common stock for
the Carlyon-Whitman Dean's Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.... 50,859
Vivian L. Carpenter, Birmingham
for the Dr. Vivian L. Carpenter Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering.................... 75,000

202



January Meeting, 2006

Gordon R. Carrier, San Diego, California
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................ 10,000
Caterpillar, Inc., Peoria, Illinois
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 10,000
Joseph J. Chanda, Indialantic, Florida
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 10,000
Markham S. Cheever Estate
for the Edwin C. Goddard Scholarship Fund............................................ 200,000
Chicago Community Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................20,000
Christopher Trust
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 25,00
Dale C. Clark Trust
for undergraduate student aid.......................................................... 17,000
Casey R. Close, New York, New York
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 50,000
Cold Heading Foundation, Warren
for the Indoor Training Facility Fund in the Department of Athletics.......................... 20,000
Columbus Rose, LTD, Reston, Virginia
for the Larry Kirshbaum Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for research in the Law School........................................................ 25,00
Michael J. Connelly, Tampa, Florida
for Larry Kirshbaum Award in the Literature, Science and the Arts............................. 10,000
Peter G. Corriveau, Farmington
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 25,00
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 32,050
Marvin I. Danto, Bloomfield Hills
for the Marvin and Betty Danto Research Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.............. 20,000
Deloitte Foundation, Wilton, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 52,418
Nelson Demille, Garden City, New York
for the Larry Kirshbaum Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
DeRoy Testamentary Foundation, Southfield
for the Residential College Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
Thomas I. Dolan, Kalamazoo
700 shares of A.O. Smith Company common stock
for the Thomas and Barbara Dolan Donor Pooled Income Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the
Thomas and Barbara Dolan Scholarships in the Colleges of Engineering, and Literature, Science
and the Arts, and the Schrank Family Scholarship Fund in the School of Natural Resources and
Environment and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 25,235
Dorfman Family Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Israeli Fellowship in Radiation Oncology and the Henry and Mala Dorfman Family
Professorship in the Medical School and for the Dorfman Family Endowment Fund at the
University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................................... 121,000
Duffy Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital.......................................... 20,000
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering, the Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
and the Michigan Business School Student Government Fund, and for employee matching gifts...... 17,750
Martin H. Edwards, Ann Arbor
for the Otto Gago, M.D. Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School and for the
Rosalie Edwards Scholarship in the School of Music...................................... 20,000
Virginia J. Ehrlicher Estate
for support in the School of Information................................................. 63,256
Charles W. Elicker Estate
for support in the Law School........................................................ 10,000
Terrence A. Elkes, New York, New York
for the Elkes Fund for Faculty Excellence and the Terrence A. and Ruth F. Elkes Merit
Scholarship in the Law School.................................................. 275,735
Ellison Medical Foundation, Redwood City, California
for the Biophysics Research Division.............................................. 227,480
Peggy Pringle Emery, Ann Arbor
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art....................................... 10,000
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................  25,000
Farrehi Family Foundation, Inc., Grand Blanc
for the Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in the Medical School........................... 20,000

203



January Meeting, 2006

Z. Jane and Cyrus Farrehi Trust
for the Cyrus and Jane Farrehi Professorship in the Medical School............................ 200,000
James G. Fausone, Northville
forsupportinthe College ofEngineering.............................................. 20,000
Michael R. Fayhee, Chicago, Illinois
forthe Building Fund inthe Law School.............................................. 25,000
Bruce A. Featherstone, Denver, Colorado
forthe Building Fund inthe Law School................................................ 80,000
Suzanne L. Feetham, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Suzanne Bellinger and Terry Feetham Professorship in the School of Nursing............... 86,000
Feldman Law Firm LLP, Houston, Texas
for supportinthe Law School......................................................... 12,500
Fischer Family Fund, Troy
for the Howard Flint Pancreatic Cancer Research Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......... 10,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research and other support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the University Hospitals..... 65,000
Ford Motor Company Fund, Dearborn
for scholarships and other support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 275,000
Howard P. Fox, Ann Arbor
900 shares of DaimlerChrysler corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Howard and Margaret Fox Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
College of Engineering, the School of Music, and for the Michigan Union....................50,025
Francis Families Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for support intheMedical School...................................................... 21,000
Maxine and Stuart Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Museum of Art for the John T. Dempsey Endowed Scholarship Fund and other
support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn and for the University Musical Society............. 22,600
Frankfort Family Foundation, Tenafly, New Jersey
MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business......................... 17,000
Stuart D. Freedman, New York, New York
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School.................................... 25,000
David G. Frey, Delray Beach, Florida
628 shares of JP Morgan Chase and Company common stock
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................ 24,982
E. James Gamble, Bloomfield Hills
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School, for support in the School of Music,
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and the University Library....................... 21,200
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, Washington
forresearch intheMedical School................................................  945,726
General Dynamics Advanced Info Systems, Fairfax, Virginia
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 12,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the College of Engineering................................................. 50,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering and the Stephen M. Ross
School ofBusiness.............................................................. 211,500
Gerontological Society of America, Washington, D. C.
for research and other support in the School of Social Work.................................. 45,000
Charlotte Geyer Foundation, Williamsville, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 50,00
Joan L. Gibson, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art........................................ 10,000
Irving S. Gilmore Foundation, Kalamazoo
for WUOM..................................................................    2500
Glancy Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, and for other support at the University of Michigan......................... 53,500
Constance P. Goodfrey 2004 Trust
for the John W. Reed Scholarship Fund and the Building Fund in the Law School................. 10,000
R. Eugene Goodson, Ann Arbor
2,230 shares of Oshkosh Truck Corporation common stock
for the University of Michigan................................................ 99,871
Graham Foundation, York, Pennsylvania
for the Solid State Laboratory Electronics Construction Fund in the College of Engineering
and for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics............................. 1,000,000
Grand Traverse Area Catholic Schools, Traverse City
for support of the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Fund, in memory of Katie Heintz...... 25,000
Kalvin M. Grove, Saint Petersburg, Florida
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 13,100

204



January Meeting, 2006

Carroll J. Haas Foundation, Mendon
for the Center for Biologic Nanotechnology in the Medical School............................ 50,000
Mimi and Robert Habush Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Community Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for the Robert and Mimi Habush Quality of Care Initiative Fund in the Medical School............ 125,000
Harvard Drug Group, Livonia
for support in the University Hospitals................................................. 10,000
James C. Hays, Roswell, Georgia
for the Class of 1977 Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.....................10,000
Hermelin Family Support Foundation of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program, Benny Friedman Fellowship in Sports Journalism,
and for the Irving M. Hermelin Curator of Judaica Endowment Fund in the University Library....... 15,500
David J. Herzig, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.................................................... 20,000
Hoag Family Foundation, Palo Alto, California
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................................... 25,000
Gary K. Hobbs, Merritt Island, Florida
764 shares of various corporate common stock and a cash gift
for the Gary and Pat Hobbs Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the College
of Pharmacy and for the University Library............................................. 20,022
Jean M. Holland, Birmingham
for the Frederick Richard Holland, M.D., Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Medical School......... 25,000
James D. Holzhauer, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Law School........................................................ 10,000
IHS Foundation, Columbus, Ohio
for support in the Law School, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 11,000
Stanley Imerman Memorial Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics.................................... 10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research in the College of Engineering.............................................. 89,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 16,125
Virginia M. Irwin Estate
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....................................... 25,000
J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships and other support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and
the University of Michigan-Flint, and for employee matching gifts............................ 44,875
John C. Jacob, Oak Park, Illinois
1,095 shares of various corporate common stock
for the John C. Jacob Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts..............................................................49,850
Steven and Katherine Jacob Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Steven and Katherine Jacob M-PACT Fund........................................ 15,000
Olive G. Jacobs Estate
for the Rush and Olive Jacobs Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 21,518
Anita H. Jenkins, Midland
for support in the Law School, and for the Andrea Louise Jenkins Scholarship Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 105,000
Joan's Legacy, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 50000
Mrs. Herbert Johe, Ann Arbor
for the Susan L. Johe Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Herbert W. And
Susan L. Johe Endowment Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning and for support in the Museum of Art.......................................... 200000
Lance J. Johnson, Woodbury, Minnesota
for support in the Law School........................................................ 50,000
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for-research and other support in the Institute for Social Research, and the Schools of Medicine,

205



January Meeting, 2006

Karla Hench Revocable Trust
for the Softball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics....................... 10,000
Joseph P. and Nancy F. Keithley Foundation, Pepper Pike, Ohio
for the Joseph P. and Nancy F. Keithley Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business. 30,000
Martin Kellner, Los Angeles, California
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for WFUM and for employee matching gifts............................................. 67,125
Kenyon S. Kendall, Grand Rapids
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 10,000
John C. Kennedy, Grand Rapids
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................................... 50,000
C. Robert Kidder and Mary G. Kidder Fund of the Columbus Foundation, Columbus, Ohio
for the Solid State Electronic Laboratory Construction Fund in the College of Engineering......... 225,000
Robert P. and Jean W. Kirby Charitable Gift Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund,
Boston, Massachusetts
for the Dean Gorham Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............ 20,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Child and Family Life Fund.................................................... 14,852
Paulette Najarian Knight, Clarkston
for the Najarian Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy................................. 10,000
James J. Kochkodan, Dearborn
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the Exhibit Museum of Natural History....... 10,300
Elizabeth J. Kostova, Ann Arbor
for the Larry Kirshbaum Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
KPMG Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 10,000
Leo A. Legatski, Whitmore Lake
for scholarships in the College of Engineering, and for the University Musical Society, and WUOM... 10,750
Dennis L. Letts, Tulsa, Oklahoma
for the Larry Kirshbaum Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for employee matching gifts........................................................ 53,852
Henry Luce Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research at the University of Michigan.............................................. 100,000
Lumina Foundation for Education, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the School of Education........................................... 70,000
David R. Macdonald Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for support in the Law School......................................................... 20,000
Kenneth S. Mack, Metamora
for the Wilbur K. Pierpont Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........... 10,000
Eleanore J. Mahlke Estate
for the Samuel Trask Dana Award in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.......... 148,297
Glen M. Majors, Searcy, Arizona
for the Class of 1948 Engineering Scholarship in the College of Engineering..................... 80,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 37,500
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 35,651
Gregory A. Margolies, New York, New York
for the Gregory Margolies Fund in the Life Sciences Institute.................................. 40,000
Natalie Matovinovic, Ann Arbor
for the Josip Matovinovic Endowed Clinical Medicine Fellowship in the Medical School........... 20,000
Marth E. McClatchey, Ann Arbor
for the Kenneth D. McClatchey Scholarship Fund in the Medical School........................ 10,000
McKinley Associates, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the Ruth and Gilbert R. Whitaker Endowed Professorship in the Stephen M. Ross School
of Business and for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art......................... 10,500
Debby Lundstrom McMullen Endowment Fund of the Ann Arbor Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 10,000
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
5,800 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Kelsey Museum Expansion Project.......................................... 202,072
Randall E. Mehrberg, Chicago, Illinois
for the Mehrberg Fund for Public Service and other support in the Law School.................... 25,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund........................... 110,655
Paul M. Meister, Hampton, New Hampshire
for the Susan Meister Endowed Fund in Pediatrics in the Medical School, for the Dean's

206



January Meeting, 2006

Venture Capital Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and for the
Life  Sciences Institute..............................................................  350,000
Richard J. Metzler, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Dean's Fund for New Initiatives in Research in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...... 50,000
Michael Flora & Associates, Inc., Troy
for WUOM................................................................ 12,000
Patricia P. Morrissey, Richland
for the Vaughn Morrissey, M.D. and Leona Morrissey R.N. Scholarship at the University
of Michigan-Flint................................................................10,000
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
for the Janice Bluestein Longone Culinary Archive in the Clements Library, the Building
Project Fund in the Museum of Art, the Matthaei Botanical Gardens and Nichols Arboretum Fund,
and for the Michigan League......................................................... 15,700
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint............................................ 100,846
Mary C. Murphy Revocable Trust
for the Percy and Mary Murphy Endowed Children's Research Fund in the Medical School......... 20,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 91,388
Kenneth H. Musson, Traverse City
for the Harold F. Falls Collegiate Professorship in the Medical School.......................... 90,000
Elder Sang Y. Nam, Ann Arbor
for the Korean Collection in the Museum of Art and for the Elder Sang-Yong Nam and Mrs
Moon-Sook Nam Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 298,991
Sang Y. Nam, Ann Arbor
for the Elder Sang-Yong and Mrs. Moon-Sook Nam Fund in the A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, and for the Korean Studies Program in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................................................  21,500
National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., White Plains, New York
for support in the College of Engineering................................................ 10,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Great Neck, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 25,000
National Cancer Prevention Fund, Denver, Colorado
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................... 82,355
Leo and Libby Nevas Family Fund of the Fairfield County Foundation, Westport, Connecticut
for the Wallenberg Medal and Lecture Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies... 10,000
Newman Family Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Newman Family Professorship Fund in Radiation Oncology in the Medical school........... 25,000
Roger S. Newton, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................. 15,000
NFL Charities, New York, New York
for research in the Division of Kinesiology............................................. 125,000
Charles G. Nickson, Houston, Texas
for the Armenag, Dirouhi and Carmen Dadrian Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School...... 35,000
Nissan Research & Development, Inc., Farmington Hills
for support in the Transportation Research Institute................................ 15,000
Noble Foundation, Wooster, Ohio
for support in the Medical School..................................................... 100,000
Nola Foundation, New York, New York
for the Global Strategic Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................. 50,000
Ronald P. Nordgren, Houston, Texas
for the Ronald P. and Joan M. Nordgren Endowed Cancer Research Fund and other
support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the University Hospitals...................... 30,000
Northrop Grumman Space & Mission Systems Corporation, Redondo Beach, California
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering............................ 40,000
Novartis, East Hanover, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 12,000
Eric A. Oesterle, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Law School........................................................ 10,000
Margaret C. Ogden Trust
for the Turner Care Connections Fund in the Medical School.................................. 10,000
Omenn-Darling Family Advised Fund of the Seattle Foundation Trust Fund, Seattle, Washington
for the Gilbert S. Omenn Endowed Professorship Fund and other support in the Medical School..... 500,000
Sally A. and Graham A. Orley Foundation, Troy
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 20,000
Raymond L. Owens, Duluth, Georgia
for Basketball Facilities Fund in the Department of Athletics.................................. 10,000
Pace & Partners, Lansing
for WUOM.................................................................. 25,920

207



January Meeting, 2006

David and Lucile Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for the David and Lucile Packard Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....62,500
Donald A. Pallin, Harshaw, Wisconsin
4,000 shares of Delta & Pine Land Company common stock
for the Donald and Nancy Pallin Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Pallin
Fellowship in the School of Natural Resources and Environment.............................. 94,100
Deryck A. Palmer, New York, New York
for the Building Fund in the Law School................................................ 15,000
Elsa U. Pardee Foundation, Midland
for research in the Medical School....................................................69,926
Brian P. Patchen, Miami, Florida
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the Brian P. Patchen Fund in the Law School.. 20,000
James Patterson, New York, New York
for the Larry Kirshbaum Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
Dennis J. Paustenbach, San Francisco, California
for research in the School of Public Health.............................................. 30000
Harry J. Pearce, Bloomfield
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................................... 10,000
Pecsco, Oakton, Virginia
for the Max and Cynthia Pettibone Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of chemical
engineering support in the College of Engineering......................................... 25,000
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 15,280
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research and other support in the Schools of Dentistry and Public Health the
Cardiovascular Center, and for the Graduate Student Internship Program in the College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................................... 341,847
PFK Family Foundation, Orland Park, Illinois
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for the Child and Family Life Fund,
in memory of Clelia Grace Sanchez................................................... 10,000
Phantom Foundation, Jackson
for the Alex Canj a Scholarship Fund.................................................. 14,000
Murray and Ina Pitt Charitable Trust
for the Ina and Murray Pitt Patient Support Services Fund in the Comprehensive Center............ 40,000
Harold A. and Marian L. Poling Charitable Contribution Fund of the Goldman Sachs
Philanthropy Fund, Clifton Park, New York
for the KEC Building Development Fund in the Medical School............................. 200,000
Donald E. Pollard, Rye, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 10,000
Herbert and Elsa Ponting Foundation, Detroit
for research in the Kresge Hearing Research Institute...................................... 15,000
Felix Posen, London, England
for the Judaic Studies Development Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 10,490
Prostate Cancer Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the Medical School................................................... 500000
Yvonne S. Quinn, New York, New York
for support in the Law School and the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies............. 41,000
Rachor Family Foundation, Flint
for scholarships and other support in the School of Dentistry, the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, and the University of Michigan-Flint........................................ 17,000
Mitchell and Shirley Raskin Family Trust
for the Mitchell and Shirley Raskin Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.................................................................. 2,076,63
Bruce V. Rauner, Winnetka, Illinois
for Camp Michigania.............................................................. 20,000
James A. Read, Riverside, Connecticut
--for support of the Women's Lacrosse Program........................................... 15,000

208



January Meeting, 2006

Paul C. Robertson, Jr., Birmingham
for the Paul and Jan Robertson Endowed Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering........... 25,000
Robert J. Rock, Birmingham
for the Academic Center and other support in the Department of Athletics....................... 31,600
Robert G. and Jane E. Rogers Family Fund of the Bay Area Community Foundation, Bay City
for the Robert G. and Jane E. Rogers Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Medical School............ 50,000
Dennis E. Ross, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Law School........................................................ 10,000
Muriel Rumsey Foundation, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for scholarships in the Medical School.................................................. 20,000
Rosemary Russell Trust
for the Rosemary Russell Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Music................... 887,902
Ruth Mott Foundation, Flint
for support in the School of Public Health and the University of Michigan-Flint.................. 196,670
Marion Ryan, Flint
for the Thomas P. Ryan Memorial Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint............ 10,000
Jonathan Rye, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jonathan and Lisa Rye Scleroderma Research Fund in the Medical School............... 125,000
Sandia National Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for scholarships in the College of Engineering............................................ 25,000
Katherine C. Sawyer Trust
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art...................................... 92,400
Schloss Foundation, New York, New York
for the Sarpedoneum Scholarship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 30,000
Edward R. Schulak, Birmingham
for the Dr. David Rosen Fund in the Medical School and for the Life Sciences Institute............. 10,000
Richard F. Scott, Ann Arbor
for the James R. Hayward Professorship in the School of Dentistry.............................. 10,000
Searle Family Trust
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................. 25,000
Alice Sebold, Ojai, California
for the Larry Kirshbaum Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
Seidman Family Foundation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......................... 30,000
Seiger Family Foundation, Los Altos Hills, California
for the Joseph and Randee Seiger Scholarship in the Law School............................. 10,000
Senior Citizen Guild, Ann Arbor
for the New Hope Fund in the University Hospitals.......................................... 25,000
Sensicore, Inc., Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 12,500
Joe Sesi, Ypsilanti
for the University Musical Society..................................................... 21,832
Shane Family Fund of the Jewish Community Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for the Gregory Shane Fibromyalgia Fund in the Medical School............................. 13,000
Jeffrey C. Sinclair, Cleveland Heights, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............. 17,500
Skillman Foundation, Detroit
for research and other support in the Law School and the School of Social Work................ 447,500
Richard B. Sneed Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Law School, in memory of Richard C. and Nancy S. Sneed.................... 10,000
Laurence L. Spitters, Palo Alto, California
for support in the Law School......................................................... 10,000
Ninfa S. Springer, Whitmore Lake
for the Ninfa and Robert Springer Family Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund, for the ultimate
benefit of the Ninfa and Robert Springer Endowed Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies............................................................15,000
Michael B. Staebler, Detroit
for support in the Law School, in memory of Kathy Ward, for the Neil Staebler Political
Education Fund and other support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy,
and for the University Library.................................................... 11,100
Stenn Family Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art..................................... 500,000
Mary V. Stevenson Estate
for the M. Virginia Stevenson Scholarships in the School of Music......................... 279,889
Dean C. Storkan, Hollister, California
for the Dean C. Storkan Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School....................... 10,000
David and Louis Stulberg Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School................................................  10,000

209



January Meeting, 2006

Judith Sutherland, Bloomfield Hills
for the Judith Sutherland Liver Research and Training Fund in the Medical School................ 10,000
Systemic Change Fund of the Grand Rapids Community Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program, the William C. Richardson Fellowship for Public
Policy.......................................................................... 15,000
Target Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support at the University of Michigan............................................... 11,000
J. Thomas Distributors, Inc., Walled Lake
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 15,000
Time Warner Book Group, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Laurence and Barbara Kirshbaum Strategic Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts..................................................................... 50000
Preston R. Tisch Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for the P. Robert Tisch Tennis Fund in the Department of Athletics........................... 150,000
Turow Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for the Larry Kirshbaum Award in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................ 10,000
University of Michigan Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society.................................................... 15,000
UPS Foundation, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for scholarships in the College of Engineering............................................ 50,000
David G. VanHooser, Ottawa Hills, Ohio
for scholarships and other support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center, the Department of Athletics,
and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................................. 10,900
James A. van Sweden, Washington, D. C.
for the Johanna and Anthony van Sweden Scholarship Fund in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment......................................................... 20000
Variety Club Charity for Children, Inc., Southfield
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Medical School....................... 11,461
Nellie M. Varner, Detroit
for support in the Cardiovascular Center, the Center for the Education of Women,
and for the Harold K. Jacobson Graduate Student Support Fund in the College o Literature,
Science and the Arts............................................................... 21,000
Bob Vizas, Berkeley, California
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics...................... 12,000
Timothy Wadhams Trust
for the Academic Center, and other support in the Department of Athletics, the Division
of Kinesiology, and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and for the
Harold F. Falls Collegiate Professorship, KEC Building Development Fund,
and other support in the Medical School............................................... 100,000
Jerry C. Wagner, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the Law School and for the Heinz C. Prechter Bipolar Research Fund
in the Medical School.............................................................. 10000
Susan S. Wagstaff Protected Trust
for support in the School of Art and Design.............................................. 15,000
Walgreen Company, Deerfield, Illinois
for the Pharmacy Construction Fund in the College of Pharmacy.............................. 25,000
Tony K. and Vivian W. Wang Trust
3,700 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Wang Chu Chien-Wen Research Internship in the College of Engineering................. 77,415
James E. Wasco, Boxford, Massachusetts
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics, and the School of Music,
and for the James and Helen Wasco Scholarship Fund in the Medical School.................... 16,250
Peter M. Wege, Grand Rapids
for the CSS Wege Environmental Educational Program and other support in the School
of Natural Resources and Environment and for the School of Art and Design................... 126,000
Ronald N. Wciscr, Ann Arbor
for the Ronald and Eileen Weiser Slovakia-UM Collaboration Fund in the College of Literature,

210



January Meeting, 2006

Nancy U. Woodworth, Kalamazoo
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................................... 20,000
Thomas Woodworth Revocable Trust
24,300 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Upjohn Woodworth Professorship Fund in the Medical School......................... 597,294
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust, Farmington Hills
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 10,000
Yung-Kuang Wu, Annandale, Virginia
for the Yung-Kuang Wu and Nell G. M. Wu Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit
of scholarship support in the College of Engineering...................................... 50,000
Frederick and Katherine Yaffe Foundation, Southfield
for the Yaffe Collaborative Center in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................... 79,000
Anne J. Yagle, Ann Arbor
for support in the College of Engineering............................................... 10,000
Mark D. Yura, Chicago, Illinois
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School................................. 10,150
Zankel Fund, New York, New York
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Zimmer Dental, Inc., Carlsbad, California
for the Hom-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship and other support in the
School of Dentistry............................................................  75,400
Martin Zwart Trust
for the Martin Zwart Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........... 15,000
Richard T. Zwirner, Lake Forest, Illinois
for student support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................... 10,000
Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors

Henry D. Alkema, Mattawan
Michael Allemang Charitable Gift Fund of the Fidelity
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Altria, New York, New York
American Express Foundation, New York, New York
Gordon L. Amidon, Ann Arbor
Anonymous Donor
Applied Dynamics International, Ann Arbor
David C. Arch, Oak Brook, Illinois
Archibeque Living Trust
Ronald O. Bailey, Riverside, California
Bryan A. Becker and Colleen J. Burcar, Lyndhurst,
New Jersey
Berghorst Foundation, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware
Robert Hunt Berry, Ann Arbor
E. H. Billig, Birmingham
BioHorizons Implant Systems, Inc., Birmingham,
Alabama
Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
Michael F. Boland, Wildwood, Missouri
Philip A. Brandon, Plymouth
Wayne J. Breece, Flushing
Joseph M. Buonaiuto, Powell, Ohio
Wellington R. Burt II, Ann Arbor
Stephanie J. Buttrey, Ann Arbor Doris N. Caddell, Ann
Arbor
Calumet Abrasives Company, Inc., Hammond, Indiana
David J. Campbell, Grosse Pointe Shores
David T. Case, McLean, Virginia
Henry L. Caulkins, Jr., Cheboygan
John W. Chatas, Ann Arbor
Cheryl Christophe, Stamford, Connecticut
Timothy W. Collins Revocable Living Trust
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
Charles P. Cousland, Oconomowoc, Wisconsin
Douglas D. Crary, Marquette

Josephine M. Creek, Bloomfield
Timothy R. Damschroder, Wilton, Connecticut
Sophia Piel Dawson Charitable Trust
Thomas J. Donnelly, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Dow Chemical Company Foundation, Midland
M. Douglas Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
Theodore Eckert Foundation, Niles, Illinois
Fairfield Construction, Battle Creek
Jeffrey D. Fenley Trust
Flint Institute of Arts, Flint
Walter and Josephine Ford Fund, Dearborn
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
Glenn A. Fosdick, Omaha, Nebraska
Jerome D. Freedman, Lexington, Massachusetts
Arthur R. Gaudi, Santa Barbara, California
Timothy P. Gerios, Plano, Texas
Robert M. Ginn, Cleveland, Ohio
Raymond F. Gist, Grand Blanc
Robert D. Glauz, Davis, California
GlaxoSmithKline Foundation, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania
Paul E. Glendon, Ann Arbor
Margaret E. Goebel Trust
Goldman Sachs Money Markets, Inc., New York, New
York
Edward Goldstein, Fullerton, California
Burton L. Hagler, Spring Valley, Ohio
Janice L. Hall, Brooklyn, New York
Beverly Lannquist Hamilton, Avon, Connecticut
Sheila F. Hamp, Dearborn
Harness, Dickey & Pierce, P.L.C., Troy
Roger B. Harris, Chicago, Illinois
Stanley G. Harris, Lincolnwood, Illinois
Thomas J. Haverbush, Alma
John T. Heitmann, Tucson, Arizona
Peter N. Heydon, Ann Arbor

211



January Meeting, 2006

William B. and Wendy B. Holmes, Ann Arbor
Robert L. Hooker, Jupiter, Florida
Robert L. and Judith S. Hooker Foundation, Grand
Rapids
Peter Hooper, Chesapeake Beach, Maryland
Nancy Redmon Hoort, Scituate, Massachusetts
Hudson-Webber Foundation, Detroit
Ronald R. Humphrey, Ann Arbor
Robert K. Hutton, Ontario, Canada
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
Gladys L. Jacobsen Trust
Japan Business Society of Detroit, Southfield
James M. Johnson, Traverse City
Russell H. Johnson, Mansfield, Massachusetts
Peter T. Joseph Foundation, New York, New York
Jim Kamman, Laguna Hills, California
Richard Katcher, Naples, Florida
Elizabeth W. Kaufman, Ann Arbor
James A. Kessel, Byron Center
Bob and Laura Kimball Fund at the Schwab Fund for
Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
Deborah L. Kirshman, Berkeley, California
James A. and Faith Knight Foundation, Ann Arbor
Harley and Stacey Kripke Philanthropic Fund of the
Toledo Jewish Community Fund, Sylvania, Ohio
Douglas J. Krizanic, Birmingham
Kroll Zolfo Cooper, LLC, Roseland, New Jersey
Linda L. Kumin, Anchorage, Alaska
Lansing Imports, Okemos
Anne T. Larin, Huntington Woods
Sander Lehrer, Oceanside, New York
Joanne R. Leoni Trust
Thomas C. Liebman, Lake Barrington, Illinois
Robert A. Lipper, Pennington, New Jersey
LLJ/DPJ Family Partners, LTD, Keego Harbor
Annette M. Lockwood, Fairfax Station, Virginia
Diana M. Lopo, New York, New York
Bob and Jan Lyons Family Foundation, Dexter
Robert C. Macek, Ann Arbor
Kathleen M. Magagna, Ann Arbor
William A. Mamrack, Atlanta, Georgia
Timothy M. and M. Elizabeth Manganello Fund of the
Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New
York
Oliver Dewey Marcks Foundation, Detroit
Gerald E. Matthews, Ada
Stafford Matthews, Belvedere Tiburon, California
Priscilla J. McEachran Trust
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
Norman F. Miller Gynecologic Society, Ann Arbor
Arnold M. Nemirow, Greenville, South Carolina
Charles F. Niemeth, New York, New York
Henry E. Niles Foundation, Inc., Greenwich,
Connecticut
North American Lighting, Inc., Farmington Hills
David G. Nussmann, Houston, Texas
Otterbourg, Steindler, Houston & Rosen, PC, New York,
New York
Paragon Reproductions, Inc., Swartz Creek
Donald R. and Ann V. Parfet Family Foundation,
Kalamazoo

Garo A. Partoyan, Osprey, Florida
Timothy J. Patton, Saline
Walter A. Payne, Plymouth
Edwin P. Peterson, Ann Arbor
E. Miles Prentice III, New York, New York
Martin C. Recchuite, Calabasas,California
Kathryn A. Renken Trust
William B. Richards, New Albany, Ohio
Jessie Ridley Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
Riverview Firefighter Association, Riverview
Frank E. Robbins Memorial Trust
Georgia S. Rowe, Sun City, Arizona
Richard C. Sanders, Grosse Pointe Farms
Laurence P. Saul, Wassenaar, Netherlands
Schostak Family Support Foundation of the United
Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
Robert G. Segel Charitable Foundation, Boston,
Massachusetts
Stephen B. Selbst, New York, New York
Clyde P. Selig, San Antonio, Texas
S. I. Company, LLC, Ann Arbor
Clifford A. Siegel, London, England
Richard H. Simon, Ann Arbor
Frances U. Sidmonds, Ann Arbor
David Sirota, New York, New York
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, LLP, New
York, New York
Nicole I. Smethells, Eau Claire, Wisconsin
Jeffrey H. Smith, Reston, Virginia
Richard D. Snyder, Ann Arbor
Richard Snyder, South Bend, Indiana
Stanley M. Sorscher, Seattle, Washington
Spectrum Health, Grand Rapids
James C. Stanley, Ann Arbor
Edward Surovell Realtors, Ann Arbor
William P. Sutter, Village of Golf, Florida
Am H. Tellem, Los Angeles, California
Tensar Corporation, Morrow, Georgia
Robert P. Thome Revocable Trust
John R. Tobin III, Waccabuc, New York
Ruth L. Townsend, Birmingham
Isabelle M. Tripp Estate
Union Pacific Corporation, Omaha, Nebraska
Elizabeth J. Varblow, Dexter
Steven P. Varilone, Milford
Gregg F. Vignos, San Francisco, California
George A. Wade, Boise, Idaho
Kathleen B. and Charles R. Walgreen, Deerfield, Illinois
Julian H-C Wan, Ann Arbor
Margaret Waterman Alumnae Group, Ann Arbor
Gerald A. Weber, Chicago, Illinois
Keith C. Wetmore, San Francisco, California
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
Richard P. Whitker Charitable Remainder Unitrust, Ann
Arbor
W. Scott Wilkinson, Birmingham
Elizabeth Ruthruff Wilson Foundation, Tecumseh
Stanley and Margaret Winkelman Support Foundation of
the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
World Heritage Foundation, Trenton
James P. and Gail W. Young Family Fund at the Schwab
Fund for Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
John D. Ziegelman, Chicago, Illinois

212



January Meeting, 2006

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Virginia Bartlett, Hingham, Massachusetts
a large collection of manuscript recipe and household account books and other related materials for the Clements
Library
Cardinal Health, San Diego, California
four Alaris SE single channel pumps and two Alaris SE dual channel pumps for the University Hospitals
Duane N. Diedrich, Muncie, Indiana
two historical manuscript collections for the Clements Library
Meryle Evans, New York, New York
a collection of menus from 1940 to the present offering information of the evolution and development of culinary
arts for the Clements Library
Linda C. Franklin, Baltimore, Maryland
a large collection of printed materials of historical culinary and household arts for the Clements Library
Joan Knoertzer, Ann Arbor
a large collection of printed materials of Helen Bannerman's children's literature, historical manuscripts,
miniature cook books, and a stamp collection for the Clements Library
Janice B. Longone, Ann Arbor
a large collection of culinary and household arts research materials for the Clements Library
Leonard G. Miller, Orchard Lake
lakefront property located in Tennessee for the Medical School
Jeremiah Tower, Merida, Mexico
a collection of records and menus of various noted restaurants, reflecting the founding, growth and development
of culinary art for the Clements Library
Clarence Wolf III, Radnor, Pennsylvania
a collection of eleven original works of art for the Clements Library
Provost Appointment. President Coleman highlighted the background and career
of Teresa Sullivan, who is being recommended for appointment as provost and
executive vice president for academic affairs. She also commented on the appointment
of Dr. Sullivan's husband, Douglas Laycock, as professor of law, noting that he is a
leading scholar on the freedom of religion clause of the First Amendment.
Regent Taylor commended President Coleman and the Provost Search Advisory
Committee for having reached such an outstanding conclusion to its search, noting that
the Regents are very pleased with the outcome. Provost Gramlich submitted a number
of personnel actions and personnel reports.
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. President Coleman
noted that Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Slottow is being
recommended for reappointment, and she praised his performance since assuming this
position.
Other    appointments.       President Coleman       also  noted   that Interim    Provost
Gramlich is being recommended for appointment as special advisor to the president
from June 1 through August 31, 2006.
Interim Provost Gramlich commented on the appointment of Douglas Laycock as
professor of law, pointing out that he is a noted scholar in the areas of remedies and the
field of religious liberty, and that this is a significant appointment for the Law School.
Personnel Actions and Personnel Reports. Provost Gramlich submitted a
number of personnel actions and personnel reports.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective September 1, 2006
Laycock, Douglas, J.D., Professor of Law, Law School

213



January Meeting, 2006

NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
DeVries, Raymond G., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Medical Education and Associate Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, January 20, 2006-January 19, 2007
Hesseltine, Douglas, B.A., Associate Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design, January 1,
2006-May 31, 2010
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Varde, Keshav S., Associate Dean, College of Engineering and Computer Science, UM-Dearbom,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2008
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Clej, Alina M., Associate Professor of French and Comparative Literature, with tenure, Department of
Romance Languages and Literatures, appointed Associate Professor of French, with tenure,
Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, and Associate Professor of Comparative
Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2006
Forrest, Stephen, Vice President for Research, Office of the President, Professor of Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, and Professor of Physics,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of Materials
Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, January 1, 2006-December 31,
2008
Jackson, William Shaun, Associate Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and Design, title changed
to Associate Professor of Art and Design, with tenure, and also appointed Associate Professor of
Architecture, without tenure, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,
January 1, 2006
Polverini, Peter J., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, and Dean, School of Dentistry, also appointed
Professor of Pathology, without tenure, Medical School, January 1, 2006
Prins, Johanna H., Associate Professor of English Language and Comparative Literature, with tenure,
title changed Associate Professor of English Language, with tenure, and also appointed Associate
Professor of Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1, 2006
Shayman, James A., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Associate Vice President for Research - Health Sciences, Office of the Vice President for
Research, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2008
LEAVES OF ABSENCE FOR REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Levine, Daniel H., James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science and Professor of Political Science,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extension of a one-year leave, current
leave, January 1-December 31, 2005, requested extension, January 1-May 2006
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on January 1, 2006
Naming of an Existing Collegiate Professorship
Andrei R. Skovoroda Collegiate Professorship in the Life Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
William Gould Dow Collegiate Professorship in Electrical Engineering, College of Engineering
Establishment of an Endowed Professorship
H. Marvin Pollard Professorship in Internal Medicine, Medical School

214



January Meeting, 2006

Establishment of a Collegiate Professorship
Richard E. Czamecki Collegiate Professorship, UM-Dearbom School of Management
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Andriessen, Louis Joseph, Netherlands Visiting Professor, School of Music, February 1, 2005-February
28, 2006
Bush, Andrew, Louis and Helen Padnos Visiting Professor of Judaic Studies, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, September 1-December 31, 2006
Davis, Gerald F., Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor of Management, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2010
Lee, James Z., Frederick G. L. Huetwell Professor and Professor of Chinese History, with tenure, and
Professor of Sociology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1,
2006-December 31, 2010
Zimmerman, Martin, Ford Motor Company Clinical Professor of Business Administration, Stephen M.
Ross School of Business, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2011
Other Transactions
Gramlich, Edward M., Special Advisor to the President, Office of the President, June 1-July 31, 2006
Halperin, David M., Reappointed W.H. Auden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2010
Sarosi, MaryAnn, Assistant Dean of Public Service, Law School, February 1, 2006-August 31, 2008
Slottow, Timothy P., Reappointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, January 1, 2006
Sullivan, Teresa A., Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, Professor of Sociology,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, June 1, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Adams, Paul S., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Industrial Operations Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1-February 28, 2006
Adlerstein-Gonzalez, Sara, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-April 30, 2006
Berofsky, Kathryn L., M.M., Intermittent Lecturer in Music, School of Music, September 1-December
31, 2005
Branch, John D., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, January 1-February 28, 2006
Burks, John L., M.A., Lecturer I in Humanities, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
January 1-April 30, 2006
Cainkar, Louise A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2006
Cullari, Francine L., J.D., Lecturer I in Management, UM-Flint School of Management, January 1-April
30, 2006
Gibb, Megan L., M.A., Intermittent Lecturer in Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, January 1-April 30, 2006
Kaufman, David L., B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in Industrial Operations, College of Engineering, January
1-April 30, 2006
Leon, Daniel W., B.A., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2006
McGowan, Charles W., Lecturer I in Music, School of Music, September 1-December 31, 2005
Molnar, Nicolette A., Lecturer I in Music, School of Music, January 1-April 30, 2006
Morgan, Andrew M., M.S., Intermittent Lecturer in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,
College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2006
Nye, Richard, M.A., Intermittent Lecturer in Education, School of Education, January 1-April 30, 2006
Rudenjak, Tanya, B.F.A., Lecturer I in Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2006
Simon, Anthony L., J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Law, Law School, January 1-April 30, 2006
Stouder, Michael, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Management, UM-Flint School of Management, December 1,
2005-February 28, 2006

215



January Meeting, 2006

Watts, Nicholas J., B.A., Lecturer I in Art and Design, School of Art and Design, January 1-April 30,
2006
Worley, Daniel T., D.M.A., Lecturer in Music Composition, School of Music, September 1, 2005-April
30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS'
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Crawford, William J. I., Lecturer II in Natural Sciences, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, personal leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED
BY THE LECTURER'S EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Baker, Shaun D., Lecturer II in Philosophy, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,,
December 31, 2005
Klungle, Roger G., Lecturer II in Industrial and Manufacturing Systems Engineering, UM-Dearbom
College of Engineering and Computer Science, December 31, 2005
McCloud, Patricia C., Lecturer III in Nursing, School of Nursing, December 31, 2005
Retired
Law, Dorothea, Lecturer IV in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, December 31, 2005
Term Completed
Cross, Elizabeth R., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 2005
Hancock, Suzanne M., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 2005
Murphy, Stacey J., Lecturer I in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, December 31, 2005
Schteingart, Martha R., Lecturer I in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and
Urban Planning, December 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Chugh, Rashmi, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 15, 2006-January
14, 2007
Haugen, Steven, M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, November 1, 2005-October 31,
2006
Hill, Heather C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Education, School of Education, January 1, 2006-May 31,
2008
Holland, Christine L., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 3,
2005-November 2, 2007
Jasty, Rama, M.B.Bs., Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, December 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Kulper, Amy C., M. Phil., Assistant Professor of Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of
Architecture and Urban Planning, January 1, 2006-May 31, 2009
Nesvizhskii, Alexey, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, November 15,
2005-November 14, 2008
Nnodim, Joseph, Ph.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 28,
2005-November 29, 2006
Piraka, Cyrus R., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 1,
2005-October 31, 2006
Sallach, John A., B.Sc., Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, November 14,
2005-November 13, 2008
Uhlmann, Wendy R., M.S., Clinical Instructor in Human Genetics, Medical School, January 1, 1998-June
30, 2006

216



January Meeting, 2006

Wehbe-Alamah, Hiba B., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions
and Studies, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2008
Wells, Trisha D., Pharm.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, November
14, 2005-November 13, 2007
Wessells, Robert J., Ph.D., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 1,
2005-November 30, 2008
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ebrahim, Farhad, from Clinical Lecturer in Radiology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology,
Medical School, January 1-June 30, 2006
Haider, Naeem, from Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Anesthesiology, Medical School, November 1, 2005-October 31, 2006
Mickey, Robert W., from Instructor in Political Science to Assistant Professor of Political Science,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2008
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Akcasu, Ziyaeddin A., Professor Emeritus of Nuclear Engineering and Macromolecular Science and
Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2006
Barclay, Mel L., Associate Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, February
1, 2006-January 31, 2007
Coon, Minor J., Victor V. Vaughan Distinguished University Professor Emeritus and Professor Emeritus
of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, February 1, 2006-January 31, 2007
Fortner, Richard W., Professor Emeritus of Management, UM-Flint School of Management, January
1-April 30, 2006
Menlo, Allen, Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education, January 1-April 30, 2006
Pollock, Stephen M., Herrick Professor Emeritus of Manufacturing and Professor Emeritus of Industrial
Operations Engineering, College of Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2006
Schaal, Thomas C., Associate Professor Emeritus of Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies, January 1-April 30, 2006
Sedman, Aileen, Professor Emerita of Pediatric Nephrology and Professor Emerita of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, January 1, 2005-December 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bornstein, George J., C.A. Patrides Collegiate Professor of English and Professor of English Language
and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave,
January 1-May 31, 2006
Bregman, Joel N., Professor of Astronomy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Brown, Catherine, Associate Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Comparative Literature, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Brown, Miranda D., Assistant Professor of Asian Languages and Cultures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Cain, Albert C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Canning, Kathleen M., Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Chambers, Evan K., Associate Professor of Music Composition, with tenure, School of Music, sabbatical
leave, September 1-May 31, 2005
Chupp, Timothy E., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2006

217



January Meeting, 2006

Cook, James W., Jr., Associate Professor of American Studies, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, January
1-May 31, 2006
Curley, Edwin M., James B. and Grace J. Nelson Professor of Philosophy and Professor of Philosophy,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Faller, Lincoln B., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Gilbert, Derrick I. M., Assistant Professor of Afro-American and African Studies, and Assistant
Professor of Residential College, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus
leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Gone, Joseph P., Assistant Professor of Psychology and Assistant Professor of American Culture, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Halperin, David M., W. H. Auden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature, Professor of
English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Hell, Julia C., Associate Professor of German, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Herrero-Olaizola, Alejandro, Associate Professor of Spanish, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Kurdak, Cagliyan, Associate Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Levine, Daniel H., James Orin Murfin Professor of Political Science and Professor of Political Science,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2006
MacDonald, Michael P., Richard Hudson Professor of History and Professor of History, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
MacLatchy, Laura M., Associate Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Makin, Michael, Associate Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Michalowski, Piotr A., George G. Cameron Professor of Ancient Near Eastern Civilization and
Languages and Professor of Near Eastern Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Murphey, Yi Lu, Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College
of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Noll, Douglas C., Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, and
Associate Professor of Radiology, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2006
Oleinick, Arthur, Associate Professor of Public Health Law, with tenure, School of Public Health,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Owen-Smith, Jason D., Assistant Professor of Sociology and Assistant Professor of Organizational
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31,
2006
Parrish, Susan S., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Pedraza, Silvia, Associate Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Pinch, Adela N., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, Associate
Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Pollack, Eileen K., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Portnoy, Alisse S., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Qiu, Yin-Long, Assistant Professor of Biology, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, and
Assistant Professor of Biology, Department of Herbarium, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Rea, David K., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, retirement furlough, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Reis, David A., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off
campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Reuter-Lorenz, Patricia A., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Ronen, Omry, Professor of Slavic Languages and Literatures, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006

218



January Meeting, 2006

Schiefelbein, John W., Jr., Professor of Biology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Schultheiss, Oliver C., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Smith, Andrea L., Assistant Professor of Native American Studies and Assistant Professor of Women's
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31,
2006
Studlar, Gaylyn, Rudolf Amheim Collegiate Professor of Film Studies, Professor of Screen Arts and
Cultures, with tenure, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of
Music, without tenure, School of Music, duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Thomason, Sarah G., William J. Gedney Collegiate Professor of Linguistics and Professor of Linguistics,
with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Thomason, Richmond H., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave January 1-May 31, 2006
Thun, Rudolf P., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Toon, Thomas E., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Was, Gary S., Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, and Professor of
Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Weber, Walter J., Jr., Gordon Maskew Fair and Earnest Boyce Distinguished University Professor of
Environmental Science and Engineering, Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
without tenure, and Professor of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, sabbatical leave, January
1-May 31, 2006
Whatley, Warren C., Professor of Economics and Afro-American and African Studies, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, December 8, 2004-December 31, 2005
Wolpoff, Milford H., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Wynne, Michael J., Professor of Botany, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2007
Zhang, Jun, Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., Arthur E. Link Distinguished University Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan
Studies and Professor of Buddhist and Tibetan Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, medical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005, previously reported as duty off
campus leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Takahara, Takeshi, Arthur F. Thumau Professor and Professor of Art, with tenure, School of Art and
Design, retirement furlough, January 1-December 31, 2006, previously reported as January 1-May
2006
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Ceny, Joseph C., Clinical Professor of Urology, Medical School, October 31, 2005
Yaghi, Omar M., Robert W. Parry Collegiate Professor of Chemistry and Professor of Chemistry, with
tenure, Medical School, December 31, 2005
Retired
Leith, Emmett N., Schlumberger Professor of Engineering and Professor of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, with tenure, College of Engineering, December 31, 2005
Term Completed
Fliegel, Jonathan E., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, December 7, 2006

219



January Meeting, 2006

Worley, Daniel T., Clinical Lecturer in Music Composition, School of Music, April 30, 2005
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 3 retiring
faculty members.
Howard Shevrin, Ph.D., professor of psychology in the Medical School and in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 2005.
Professor Shevrin received his B.S. degree from the City College of New York
in 1948 and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Cornell University in 1951 and 1954,
respectively. He received postdoctoral training at the Menninger Foundation and
completed psychoanalytic training at the Topeka Institute for Psychoanalysis. He joined
the University of Michigan faculty in 1973 as a professor and chief clinical psychologist
in the Department of Psychiatry in the Medical School, and received a joint appointment
as professor of psychology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts in 1975.
For more than 50 years, Professor Shevrin has pushed the boundaries between
neuroscience and psychoanalysis, finding evidence that psychoanalytic concepts could
be documented through physical measures of brain activity. In 1968, he published the
first report of brain responses to unconscious visual stimuli, thus providing strong,
objective evidence for the existence of the unconscious at a time when most scientists
were skeptical.  He also showed that--consistent with Freud's views--unconscious
perceptions are processed differently from conscious perceptions. Recently, Professor
Shevrin's research has suggested a link between repressive personality traits and a
longer-than-average delay between the application of a stimulus and the conscious
awareness of that stimulus. He and colleagues have also found brain markers for the role
of unconscious emotional conflict in producing social phobias. These and other studies
have helped form the foundation for the new field of neuropsychoanalysis.
Professor Shevrin is the author of over 150 publications, including an
award-winning psychoanalytic novel in verse form, The Dream Interpreters. In 2003, he
received the prestigious Mary S. Sigourney Award in recognition of his outstanding
achievements in psychoanalytic research.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Howard Shevrin professor emeritus of psychology.
Kathryn   W. Tosney, Ph.D., professor of molecular, cellular, and
developmental biology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, retired from
active faculty status on December 31, 2005, after a distinguished career as a teacher and
researcher.
Professor Tosney received her B.S. degree from the University of Oregon in
1975 and her Ph.D. degree from Stanford University in 1980. After completing her
postdoctoral studies, she joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant
professor in 1984 and was promoted to associate professor in 1989 and professor in
1995.
Professor Tosney is an internationally recognized leader in developmental
neurobiology. Her research has focused on studying the cellular mechanisms that allow
the axons of motor neurons to find their way out of the spinal cord and then connect to
the proper set of target muscle cells in the developing limb. Her experiments are notable
for their elegant approach and clear results, with some requiring her to conduct delicate
microsurgery on developing chick embryos, and others calling for innovative cell

220



January Meeting, 2006

culture approaches. A superb teacher, Professor Tosney developed novel approaches to
help students grasp difficult concepts in developmental biology. For example, she
created an origami model of the embryo to illustrate the complex cell movements that
occur during the critically important process of gastrulation. During lectures, she also
made extensive use of images of developing embryos in whole mount and conventional
histological sections that she collected from her research.
Professor Tosney was associate department chair from 1991-95 and served on
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts Executive Committee and the LS&A
and Rackham divisional boards. She was a member of many federal grant review
panels, served on the editorial boards of two journals, and was a board member and
treasurer of the Society for Developmental Biology.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar for her dedicated service by
naming Kathryn W. Tosney professor emerita of molecular, cellular, and developmental
biology.
Sue A. Woestehoff, Ph.D., professor of education in the School of Education and
Human Services at the University of Michigan-Flint, retired from active faculty status on
December 31, 2005.
Professor Woestehoff received her B.S., M.A., and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Minnesota in 1964, 1965, and 1969, respectively. She joined the
University of Michigan-Flint faculty as a lecturer in 1969 and was promoted to assistant
professor in 1971, associate professor in 1975, and professor in 1982.
Professor Woestehoff's research and publications focused on children's
literature and language arts. Within the school, she served three terms as chair of the
Department of Education (1976-78, 1986-89, and 1999-2001), played a major role in the
development of the graduate program, and coordinated the state periodic review
process. She chaired the College of Arts and Sciences Dean Search Committee and the
School of Education and Human Services Academic Affairs Advisory Committee, served
several terms on the College of Arts and Sciences Executive Committee, and was a
founding member of the executive committee of the School of Education and Human
Services. She also served on the Academic Affairs Advisory Committee of the Senate
Advisory Committee on University Affairs.
Within the broader professional community, Professor Woestehoff held a
number of positions in the National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE), including
president of the Children's Literature Assembly, chair of the Committee on Storytelling,
and member of both the board of directors and the literature commission. She also
co-edited a book on storytelling published by NCTE. Professor Woestehoff's honors
include the Distinguished Teaching Award from the University of Michigan-Flint and
the Distinguished Faculty Award from the Michigan Association of Governing
Boards.
The Regents now salute this dedicated faculty member by naming Sue A.
Woestehoff professor emerita of education.
Memorials. Vice President Churchill submitted memorial statements for three
faculty members whose deaths had been reported previously. She also reported the
death of David Fleischer, associate professor of pharmacological sciences, who had
died on January 7th at age 61. A memorial statement for Professor Fleischer will be
included with the February agenda.

221



January Meeting, 2006

The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death of Thomas Carli, M.D., clinical associate professor of psychiatry and
assistant dean for clinical affairs in the Medical School. Dr. Carli died on December 9,
2005, at the age of 59.
Driven to improve the care of patients with chronic illnesses and to integrate care
for mental illnesses with that for physical illness, Dr. Carli devoted his career to
transforming the delivery of health care. He worked tirelessly to initiate and sustain
efforts that served patients within the University Health System, Washtenaw County,
and the State of Michigan.
Dr. Carli received his undergraduate degree in psychology from Wayne State
University in 1968 and his M.D. degree from the University of Michigan Medical
School in 1972. After completing his internship, he spent a year of psychiatry residency
at the University of British Columbia before returning to the University of Michigan,
where he rose to chief resident. From 1977-81, he worked in emergency and outpatient
psychiatry and then entered private practice. In 1985 he was recruited to the faculty,
where he served as an instructor and director of several outpatient psychiatry programs.
He was promoted to clinical assistant professor in 1990 and clinical associate professor
in 1997.
From 1995-2001, Dr. Carli served as director of one of the nation's first academic
managed behavioral health care organizations, the Michigan Center for Diagnosis and
Referral. In 1998, he became the founding medical director of the Washtenaw
Community Health Organization, an innovative joint program of the University Health
System and Washtenaw County that provides for the medical and mental health needs of
the county's mentally ill and underinsured residents. Recently, he was made medical
director of the Washtenaw Health Plan, which serves the county's uninsured residents.
Dr. Carli was a past president of the Michigan Psychiatric Society and in 2003 he was
appointed by Governor Granholm to the Michigan Mental Health Commission.
Dr. Carli was founding medical director of the UMHS Medical Management
Center, which re-shaped the way patients with chronic illnesses are cared for, and he
co-developed and served as founding medical director for Partnership Health, a joint
program with Ford Motor Company focused on chronic illnesses. He also was medical
director for behavioral health at M-CARE and director of workplace and university
programs for the U-M Depression Center.
As we mourn this untimely loss, our condolences go to his wife, Laura Nitzberg;
his daughter, Anna; his sons, Tatha and Nikos; and his daughter-in-law, Kimberly
(Stec) Carli.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death of Emmett Leith, Schlumberger Professor of Engineering and professor of
electrical engineering and computer science. Professor Leith, a revered College of
Engineering faculty member for 52 years and one of the early innovators of holography
in the 1960s, died on December 23, 2005, at the age of 78.
Professor Leith received B.S. and M.S. degrees in physics and a Ph.D. degree in
electrical engineering, all from Wayne State University. He also received an honorary
Doctor of Science degree from University of Aberdeen. His research touched areas such
as synthetic aperture radar, optical processing, and holography.
At the Optical Society's 1964 spring conference, Professor Leith and other
College of Engineering researchers displayed a revolutionary laser-transmission

222



January Meeting, 2006

hologram that proved to be a dramatic first step in developments that made life easier,
safer, and more efficient. Double-exposed holograms, for example, provided data that
improved the design of containers for the transport and storage of nuclear materials.
Aircraft engineers used holography to visualize shockwaves and pinpoint the areas of
greatest stress on wings and turbine blades. Forensic scientists have used holograms to
uncover mysteries in the body. Optical computers use holography to store data. And
today's everyday credit cards use holograms to record and store information. Through
the development of holography, Professor Leith changed the world.
Professor Leith authored or coauthored about 200 papers. He is listed in various
publications, including Who 's Who in America. He is a fellow of IEEE, the Optical
Society of America, and the SPIE, and he is an honorary member of the Engineering
Society of Detroit. He received numerous awards, including the Liebmann Award of
IEEE, the Herbert Ives Medal of OSA, the Gold Medal of SPIE, the Progress Medal of
the Royal Photographic Society of Britain, and the National Medal of Science. He was a
member of the National Academy of Engineering.
Professor Leith is survived by June, his wife of 49 years, their two daughters, Pam
Wilder of San Jose, California, and Kim Leith of Baltimore, Maryland, and three
grandchildren.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death of John R. Omnaas, assistant research scientist in the medicinal chemistry
program in the College of Pharmacy. Dr. Omnaas died at the age of 59 on November
19, 2005.
Dr. Omnaas earned his B.S. degree in chemistry with distinction from the
University of Minnesota in 1968 and his Ph.D. degree in biochemistry from The
University of Texas at Austin in 1977. He was a research associate at the University of
Miami School of Medicine until 1980, when he became a postdoctoral investigator at
the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. He came to the University of Michigan School of
Medicine in 1982 to continue his postdoctoral research and was appointed senior
research fellow in the College of Pharmacy in 1984. He became a research investigator
in the College of Pharmacy in 1991 and was promoted to assistant research scientist in
2002.
In addition to being an excellent scientist, Dr. Omnaas was an extraordinarily
gifted and patient mentor to the numerous undergraduate and graduate students who
trained in his lab. His passing leaves a deep void among his many friends and
colleagues.
Among Dr. Omnaas' s other interests was a passion for trains. He was a long-time
volunteer of the Steam Railroading Institute of Owosso, Michigan, where he spent
many happy hours maintaining and repairing the Pere Marquette Railway No. 1225
steam locomotive.

223



January Meeting, 2006

provost and executive vice president for academic affairs, and professor of sociology,
with tenure.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the reappointment of Timothy P. Slottow as executive vice
president and chief financial officer.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitment (JBG Investment Fund V)
Executive Vice President Slottow requested that this item be removed from
consideration.
Alternative Asset Commitments (GSR Ventures, L.P., HealthCap V, L.P.)
Equity Investment (Convexity Capital Offshore, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the following investments: commitment of $5.0 million from
the Long Term Portfolio to GSR Ventures, L.P.; commitment of up to ~15 million from
the Long Term Portfolio to HealthCap V, L.P.; and initial funding of $150 million from
the Long Term Portfolio to Convexity Capital Offshore, L.P.
South State Commons II, LLC, Data Center Leasehold Improvements
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the South State Commons II, LLC, Data Center Leasehold
Improvements Project as described in the Regents Communication.
College of Pharmacy Building Third Floor Laboratory Renovations
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the College of Pharmacy Building Third Floor Laboratory
Renovations Project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes seven conflict of interest
items, each of which requires six votes for approval. Regent Richner requested recusal
from the request for an option agreement between the University of Michigan and
Innovative Biotherapies, Inc. Therefore, this item was considered separately from the
six other conflict items. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent
Newman, the Regents unanimously approved the following six items:
Renewal of Lease Agreement with 1250 N. Main LLC
The Regents approved a lease renewal agreement with 1250 N. Main LLC for
14,000 square feet of property located at 1250 North Main Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Because Peter A. Alien, part owner of 1250 N. Main LLC, is also a University of
Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest

224



January Meeting, 2006

Statute. The   following   information  is provided   in  compliance   with   statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and 1250 N.
Main LLC.
2.   The service to be provided is the continued lease of 14,000 square feet in a building at
1250 North Main Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan, for one year. The lease will run from
July 16, 2006 through July 15, 2007, at a monthly rate of $16,891.00. Tenant will
continue to be responsible for gas and electric usage plus janitorial service and will
continue to be responsible for all operating expenses of the building.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. Allen, a University of Michigan
employee, is part owner of 1250 N. Main LLC.
4th Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement with Oncomed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., to add the following technology files to its existing license:
"Methods for Treating and Diagnosing Head and Neck Cancer" (UM          OTT File No.
3211), "Methods for Treating and Diagnosing Cancer: Array Analysis of Colon and
Head and Neck Cancer Steam Cells" (UM OTT File No. 3221), "Methods for Treating
and Diagnosing Cancer" (UM OTT File No 3222), and "Methods for Identifying Mouse
Breast Cancer Stem Cells" (UM OTT File No. 3223). Because Drs. Max Wicha and
Sean Morrison, part owners of Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc., are also University of
Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
2.   The amendment terms include giving Oncomed an exclusive license with the right to
grant sublicenses. Oncomed will pay a royalty on sales and reimburse patent costs.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties. Additional review by the Medical School Conflict of Interest Board will be
done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Wicha and Morrison, University
of Michigan employees, are part owners of Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Neither
Dr. Wicha nor Dr. Morrison is an inventor on any of the added technology files.
5th Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement with Oncomed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., to add the following technology files to its existing license:
"Self-renewal of Human Mammary Stem Cells" (UM OTT File No. 3231) and
"Targeting the Notch Signaling Pathway in Breast Cancer Stem Cells" (UM OTT File
No. 3232). Because Drs. Max Wicha and Sean Morrison, part owners of Oncomed
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls
under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:

225



January Meeting, 2006

1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
2.   The amendment terms include giving Oncomed an exclusive license with the right to
grant sublicenses. Oncomed will pay a royalty on sales and reimburse patent costs.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties. Additional review by the Medical School Conflict of Interest Board will be
done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Wicha and Morrison, University
of Michigan employees, are part owners of Oncomed Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Dr.
Morrison is not an inventor on any of the added technology files.
License Agreement with Compendia, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with Compendia, Inc., for the
following technologies: "Cancer Microarray Compendium and Data-Mining Platform
(ONCOMINE)" (UM OTT File No. 2658), "HiMAP (Human Interactome Map)
Database and Web Application" (UM OTT File No. 3266), and "MCM (Molecular
Concept Map) Database and Web Application" (UM OTT File No. 3272). Because Dr.
Arul Chinnaiyan and Mr. Daniel Rhodes, part owners of Compendia, Inc., are also
University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Compendia, Inc.
2.   The amendment terms include giving Compendia an exclusive license with the right to
grant sublicenses. Compendia will pay a royalty on sales. The University will retain
ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to further develop it and use it
internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees,
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
Additional review by the Medical School Conflict of Interest Board will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Chinnaiyan and Mr. Rhodes,
University of Michigan employees, are part owners of Compendia, Inc. They have
waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.
Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Attenuon, LLC
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement with Attenuon, LLC,
for the technology titled "Method and Composition for Inducing Apoptosis in Cancer
Cells" (UM OTT File No. 2739). Because Drs. George Brewer, Sofia Merajver, and
Dimitri Coucouvanis, and Mr. Robert Dick have an ownership interest in Attenuon,
LLC, and are also University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Attenuon,
LLC.

226



January Meeting, 2006

2.   The current license agreement gives Attenuon an exclusive license to the technologies.
The company reimburses patent costs and pays a royalty on sales. The University will
retain ownership of the optioned technology and may continue to further develop it
and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees,
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Brewer, Merajver, and
Coucouvanis and Mr. Dick, University of Michigan employees, have an ownership
interest in Attenuon, LLC.
License Agreement with GoKnow, Inc.
The Regents approved a license agreement with GoKnow, Inc., for the technology
titled "GoObserve" (UM File No. 3317). Because Dr. Elliot Soloway, partial owner of
GoKnow, Inc., is also a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under
the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is
provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and GoKnow,
Inc.
2.   The license terms include granting GoKnow an exclusive license with the right to
grant sublicenses. GoKnow will pay a one-time license fee. The University will retain
ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to further develop it and use it
internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees,
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Soloway, a University of Michigan
employee, is part owner of GoKnow, Inc. He has waived any personal participation in
the sharing of revenue received by the University.
Amendment to Option Agreement with Innovative Biotherapies, Inc.
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved an amendment to an option agreement with Innovative
Biotherapies, Inc., for the technology titled "Implantable Bioartificial Hemofilter" (UM
OTT File No. 3245). Regent Richner recused himself from consideration of this item
due to a conflict of interest.
Because Dr. H. David Humes, part owner of Innovative Biotherapies, Inc., is also
a University of Michigan employee, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Innovative Biotherapies, Inc.
2.   The current option agreement gives Innovative Biotherapies an exclusive option to the
technologies. The company reimburses patent costs and continues evaluation of the
technologies. The University will retain ownership of the optioned technology and
may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees,
is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
Additional review by the Medical School Conflict of Interest Board will be done as
appropriate.

227



January Meeting, 2006

3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Dr. Humes, a University of Michigan
employee, is part owner of Innovative Biotherapies, Inc. He has waived any personal
participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.
Revision of Regents' Bylaw    Section 11.53:   The School of Social Work:      The
Executive Committee
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
approved a change in the makeup of the School of Social Work Executive Committee
so as to include one un-tenured faculty member of the professorial staff. The text of the
revised bylaw follows (additions are underlined; deletions are crossed out).
Bylaw Sec. 11.53. The School of Social Work: The Executive Committee
The executive committee will consist of the dean and six members of the governing faculty five
tenured and one un-tenured member of the professorial staff, to be appointed by the board on
recommendation by the president. The appointed tenured members will hold office for three
years, and the appointed un-tenured member will hold office for two years. tThe terms will be
adjusted so that no more than two tenured appointments will expire each year. The appointed
members will not be eligible for reappointment until after the lapse of one year. The dean will
chair the committee.
The business meeting concluded at 10:25 a.m. It was followed by a 30-minute
break.
Public Comments
The Public Comments session began at 10:55 a.m. The Regents heard comments
from the following individuals, on the topics indicated: Aparna Bole, student, and
Tracey Easthope, citizen and environmental health director of the Ecology Center, on
environmentally responsible design and construction of the new C.S. Mott Children's
Hospital; Jim Mogensen, citizen, on "the edifice complex"; David Boyle, alumnus, on
MLK and a UM pledge not to invest in Sudan; Alice Ralph, alumna and Washtenaw
County Historic District commissioner, on the Gordon Hall Historic District; Jonathan
Mycek, student, on certification of public safety officers at UM-Dearborn; Marcia
Federbush, citizen, on ceasing the University's business relationship with Coca-Cola
and divesting from companies assisting Israel's military; and Alex Oster, student and
member of students for PIRGIM, on student financial aid cuts.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:40 a.m. The
next meeting is scheduled for February 17, 2006.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretary of the University

228



FEBRUARY MEETING, 2006

The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
February 17, 2006
The Regents convened at 9:25 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Vice President and Secretary Churchill, Vice President
Forrest, Interim Provost Gramlich, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President
Kelch, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor
Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, and Vice President
Wilbanks. Regent McGowan was absent.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order. She noted that during the past
month she had addressed a meeting of the scholarly division of the American
Association of Publishers in support of the University's participation in the "Google
Book Search" project, and had attended a celebration of the opening of the Biomedical
Sciences Research Building. She commented that Governor Granholm had included a
2% increase for higher education in her 2007 budget proposal, and called attention to
the fact that Professor William Bolcolm's masterpiece, "Songs of Innocence and
Experience," recorded at Hill Auditorium, had received four Grammy Awards.
President Coleman also noted that the Children's and Women's Hospital replacement
project, to be discussed later in the meeting, is assumed to be the largest single
construction project in the state.
Presentation: "The Leaders and Best: What Makes Our School of Education
Different?"
President Coleman introduced Dean Deborah Loewenberg Ball, dean of the
School of Education. Dean Ball noted that inadequate education is a major issue facing
the world in the 21st century, and that the University of Michigan is in a position to take
the lead in offering solutions to this problem. She commented that almost half of the
school's students are involved in teacher certification programs at the undergraduate
and master's degree levels.  The remainder of the school's students are in
non-teacher-certification programs, including masters programs in higher education and
Ph.D. Programs.
Dean Ball said that School of Education faculty are of the highest quality, as
indicated by the school's overall ranking in 2005 of 9th nationally and first in the higher
education program, and that research performed at the school is among the most widely
cited and used research for policy-making and improvements in practice.  She
emphasized that the research being pursued by School of Education faculty focuses on
core problems of education and studies, and develops solutions for those problems by
examining the causes, designing and studying interventions, articulating policies, and
contributing to the improvement of professional education.

229



February Meeting, 2006

Dean Ball commented that the school trains a number of different education
professionals and described its efforts at educating teachers, including graduate student
instructors, in addition to K-12 teachers. She pointed out that the best way to improve
the performance of the nation's teachers is to build a reliable system of teacher
education and described the key elements necessary for this. She noted that the close
relationship between School of Education faculty and faculty in the other schools and
colleges helps to explain why the University of Michigan is positioned to take a leading
role in this.
Dean Ball described some of the School of Education initiatives that are under
development or under consideration to meet some of the challenges she described. She
concluded by describing the school's priorities and challenges going forward and
expressed confidence that the school is positioned to be able to make significant
advances in the field.
Regent White complimented Dean Ball on her presentation. Regent Newman
commented that everyone on the board deeply cares about education and urged Dean
Ball to let the Regents know if there is anything they can do to be supportive and
helpful. In response to a question from Regent Deitch about the reasons for the poor
performance of American students in math and science achievement measures, she gave
a number of reasons and said that the University is in a good position to make
contributions toward improving this situation.
Annual Report on Research
Vice President Forrest stated that the mission of the Office of the Vice President
for Research (OVPR) is to anticipate new research trends, to engage the diverse
communities in the research enterprise, to expedite the diffusion of new knowledge into
the classroom and the community, and to promote integrity in research and ensure
compliance with government regulations. He noted that research expenditures at the
University of Michigan have about doubled in the last 10 years to a total of about $800
million in 2006, although the growth rate has flattened somewhat over the past few
years.
He noted that approximately 75% of research expenditures derive from the federal
government, about 14% from the University, and about 4.5% from industry. He
described research expenditures by unit, noting that the Medical School (42%), College
of Engineering (18%), College of LS&A (9%), and the Institute for Social Research
(9%) make up the bulk of the research expenditures. He reported that more than 2,000
undergraduates and 12,000 graduate students are involved in research.
Vice President Forrest observed that the OVPR attempts to catalyze research ideas
from disparate groups to make the whole greater than the sum of its parts, and said that
the Michigan Nanotechnology Institute for Medicine and Biological Sciences is an
example of this. He announced a new OVPR initiative on energy science, technology,
and its impacts, with the goal of the University becoming one of the world's leading
universities in energy research. He explained the importance of industry research and
technology transfer to the University and the state, noting that while the University
ranks 8th in annual licensing revenue and in annual licensing revenue, industry research
funding as a percentage of total research funding (4.5%) is very low, ranking only 96th
nationally. Thus, he pointed out that industry research and partnerships provide the

230



February Meeting, 2006

largest opportunity for continued growth in research volume and listed some of the
University's strategies for doing so.
Vice President Forrest concluded by recognizing the highly competitive, global
nature of research, and described the vision of the OVPR as working to anticipate and
meet future opportunities and challenges. He then responded to questions regarding
how the University shares in the profits generated when it collaborates with industry,
explaining that this is done in a variety of ways, including taking an equity position in a
company and receiving royalties. The exact agreement is specific to each situation, but
the most important thing is to establish an agreement with a company. He noted that
the University makes every effort to ensure that companies it is involved with are
located in Michigan.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reviewed the
topics the committee had covered during its meeting the day before. The first agenda
topic involved a review of policies, practices, trends, and benchmark comparisons
regarding the endowment. The committee next reviewed the activities and structure of
the Michigan Health Corporation (MHC), a not-for-profit membership corporation
wholly owned by the Regents. The committee then had a preliminary look at the FY07
General Fund budget. Finally, the committee had a continuation of its January regular
bimonthly audit meeting and also met privately with the internal auditors to inquire
about the level of cooperation and support they are receiving from the University. The
committee had also received a written quarterly report on the Life Sciences Institute.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee.       Regent Richner
presented the report of this committee, because the chair, Regent Taylor, had been
unable to attend. Regent Richner noted that Regents Newman and Maynard had
attended this meeting in the absence of the other committee members. The Regents had
reviewed information on the increasing challenge related to the costs of health care
benefits and expressed support for the efforts of the administration. They also learned
about the "Michigan Healthy Community" initiative which is encouraging healthier
lifestyles on campus, and noted that the Regents were encouraged to participate in the
fitness challenge.  The Regents also were updated    about the University's
federally-mandated affirmative action plan for recruiting and retaining minority and
women faculty and staff.
The Regents then turned to the consent agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of January 20, 2006.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action (HRAA)
Report.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report. Vice President Forrest submitted the Report of Projects
Established, January - January 31, 2006.

231



February Meeting, 2006

University of Michigan Health System. There was no additional report.
Division of Student Affairs. No report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. No report was submitted.
University of Michigan-Flint. No report was submitted.
Michigan Student Assembly Report. MSA President Jesse Levine informed the
Regents about the Lease Signing Ordinance which is currently being considered by the
Ann Arbor City Council. This ordinance would prevent landlords from showing
properties for the first quarter of the lease and would also prevent students from signing
a lease until the first third of the lease has been completed. A vote is scheduled for
March 6, 2006.
Mr. Levine also reported that MSA elections will be held March 6-22 and a lot of
interest has been expressed. Finally, he distributed a document from the president of the
University of Michigan-Dearborn student government concerning campus safety officer
certification.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for January 2006.
ACEA Biosciences, Inc., San Diego, California
for research in the Medical School................................................... $10,000
Robert and Marjorie Alpern Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
4,879 shares of Vodafone Group PLC common stock
for the Marge and Robert Alpern Fund in the Medical School.................................. 99,776
American Skin Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 15,000
American Society for Therapeutic Radiology Oncology, Fairfax, Virginia
for the Theodore S. Lawrence, M.D., Ph.D. Fund in the Medical School....................... 10,000
American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy, Oak Brook, Illinois
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 37,500
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School.......................................................  12,500
Analog Devices, Norwood, Massachusetts
for research in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...................... 50,100
Richard D. Anderson, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the Reed O. Dingman Professorship in Plastic Surgery in the Medical School.................. 30,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 500,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Cardiovascular Center...................................................... 250,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Martha Cook Building Fund.................................................... 15,000
Anonymous Donor
for the Academic Center and other support in the Department of Athletics....................... 13,200
Frederick M. Arbuckle, Jr., Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Fred and Helen Arbuckle Scholarship in Landscape Architecture in the School
of Natural Resources and Environment................................................. 15,00
Lance Armstrong Foundation, Austin, Texas
for research in the School of Public Health.......................................... 82,500
Dr. Robert C. Atkins Foundation, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and for the Atkins Professorship Fund
nthe Medial School........................................................ 115,232
Isadore A. Bemstein Trust
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center for research and other support
in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health and for the Wilmot House...................... 36,976
Clarence J. Beshke, London, England
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics....................... 50,000
Seth Bonder Trust
for support in the College of Engineering............................................. 25,000

232



February Meeting, 2006

Earl R. Boonstra Trust
for the Earl R. Boonstra Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
Earl and Margaret Boonstra Scholarship Program Fund in the Law School, and for
undergraduate student aid.......................................................... 1,200,000
Robert Bosch Company, Reutlingen, Germany
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 15,000
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
for the William K. Brehm Undergraduate Scholarship Fund................................. 350,000
James D. Bruce Fellowship Fund of the Michigan State Medical Society Foundation, East Lansing
for the James D. Bruce Fellowship Fund in the Medical School.........................10,850
Carls Foundation, Detroit
for the Camp Michitanki Transplant Fund............................................... 10,000
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
for support in the Institute for Social Research............................................ 35,000
Citigroup Foundation, New York, New York
for scholarships and other support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..................... 35,050
Michael and Suzanne Coghlan Family Foundation Trust
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 11,600
Howard Cohodas, Marquette
for the Sylvia C. and Arnold M. Cohodas Dean's Scholarship Fund and other support
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......................................... 31,500
Community Foundation of Greater Flint, Flint
for scholarships in the University of Michigan-Flint...................................... 86,216
Consortium, Saint Louis, Missouri
for the Consortium for Graduate Study in Management Fund in the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business............................................................... 83,240
Cormetech, Inc., Durham, North Carolina
for research in the College of Engineering...............................................  15,000
CoTherix, Belmont, California
for the Cardiovascular Center......................................................... 10,000
Wallace H. Coulter Foundation, Miami, Florida
for research in the College of Engineering.............................................. 580,000
Cypress Bioscience, Inc., San Diego, California
for the Cypress Discretionary Fund in the Medical School............................ 400,000
DaimlerChrysler Corporation Fund, Auburn Hills
for the Daimler Chrysler Fellowship in Sustainable Systems in the School
of Natural Resources and Environment.................................................. 40,000
Denso International America, Inc., Southfield
for support in the Transportation Research Institute........................................ 15,000
Detroit Youth Foundation, Detroit
for support in the School of Social Work............................................... 20,480
James R. Donahey, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 11,500
Duffy Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School...................................................... 15,000
M. Douglas Dunn, New Vernon, New Jersey
for the M. Douglas and Jill Dunn Engineering Endowment Fund in the College of Engineering....... 10,000
Jane G. Dustan Fund for the benefit of the Foundation for Child Development of the Fidelity
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the School of Social Work.............................................. 25,000
Encysive Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Houston, Texas
for the Cardiovascular Center......................................................... 10,000
Robert A. Epstein, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 19,600
Fanconi Anemia Research Fund, Inc., Eugene, Oregon
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 18,838
Federal-Mogul Corporation, Detroit
for support in the Transportation Research Institute............................. 15,000
Lillian Ferrer, San Juan, Puerto Rico
for the Otto Gago, M.D., Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School.................. 15,000
Gayle Crick Fischer, Indianapolis, Indiana
540 shares of Eli Lilly & Company common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Department of Athletics and for the William T. and Norma J. Crick
Scholarship Fund and the Gayle Crick Fund in the College of Pharmacy...................... 31,683
Marjorie S. Fisher Fund of the Community Foundation for Southeastern Michigan, Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................ 50,000
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Law School................................................... 30,000

233



February Meeting, 2006

Foundation for Modern Greek Studies, Northville Township
for Modern Greek Studies support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............. 12,500
Willard and Anne Fraumann Fund of the Kirkland & Ellis Foundation, Chicago, Illinois for the
Fraumann Family Dean's Merit Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 22,750
Frey Foundation, Grand Rapids
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......................... 25,000
Bernard A. Gassin, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
for the Gassin Family Scholarship Fund for Non-Resident Students in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts...............................................................  40,000
Charles and Rita Gelman Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Federation of Washtenaw County, Ann Arbor
for the Cardiovascular Center General Research Fund and the KEC Building Development
Fund in the Medical School and for the Museum of Art................................... 51,000
General Motors Corporation, Phoenix, Arizona
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 30,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for the MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and for
employee matching gifts........................................................ 61,328
Benn Gilmore, Plymouth
for Women's Golf Support in the Department of Athletics.................................... 11,000
GlaxoSmithKline Foundation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
for employee matching gifts......................................................... 13,950
Edward M. Gramlich, Ann Arbor
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................................. 15,000
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for the Eugene and Emily Grant Scholarship Funds in the Division of Kinesiology,
the School of Natural Resources and Environment, and for the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology...... 30,000
Harvard Drug Group, Livonia
for the Nick Leoni Endowment Fund in the Division of Kinesiology and for the Spring
to Life Event Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center..................................... 10,000
Herman Family Foundation of the Greater Kansas City Community Foundation & Affiliated Trusts,
Kansas City, Missouri
for the Herman Faculty Fellows Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............ 10,000
Honewell International, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
for support in the Tauber Manufacturing Institute in the College of Engineering
and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............................................ 10,000
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 20,000
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................................ 75,000
Verne G. and Judith A. Istock Foundation, Naples, Florida
for the Istock Jump Start Funds in the School of Education................................... 150,000
JDW, II Capital Limited Partnership, Salinas, California
for the Joseph and Judy Williamson Endowed Football Scholarship Fund and the Academic
Center in the Department of Athletics................................................. 100,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman, New Jersey
for research in the College of Engineering, and for employee matching gifts...................... 10,550
Jack A. Josephson, New York, New York
2,000 shares of Intel Corporation common stock
for the Jack Josephson Endowed Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering................. 42,680
Loree K. Kalliainen, Lake Elmo, Minnesota
for the Reed O. Dingman Professorship in Plastic Surgery in the Medical School................. 10,000
J. Christopher Kantgias, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 12,200
Katzman Family Support Foundation of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 75,000
Kaydon, Ann Arbor
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................... 60,000
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program, William C. Richardson Fellowship for Public
Policy and for employee matching gifts............................................ 400,150
Kenyon S. Kendall, Grand Rapids
for the Kenyon Kendall Charitable Gift Annuity, for the ultimate benefit for scholarships in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................... 10,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Child and Family Life Fund and for support in the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital............ 29,704
Knight Foundation, Miami, Florida
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program........................................ 1,000,000

234



February Meeting, 2006

Krips Family Foundation, Houston, Texas
1,100 shares of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock
for the Krips Endowment Fund in the School of Education................................ 25,526
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
for support intheMedical School...................................................... 15,000
Mark J. Levick, Rancho Mirage, California
for supportinthe Law School......................................................... 18,000
Michael J. Levitt, Alpine, New Jersey
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................... 36,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program Livingston Award for Young Journalists............. 40,625
Thomas L. Lott Trust
5,100 shares of various corporate common stock for support in the Law School................... 99,851
Lumina Foundation for Education, Indianapolis, Indiana
forresearch inthe School ofEducation............................................ 38,900
Carolyn B. MacKenzie, New York, New York
for research in the School of Public Health................................................. 10,00
Madigan Family Foundation, Winnetka, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................................... 10,000
Magna Donnelly Corporation, Holland
for support in the Transportation Research Institute......................................... 15,000
David M. Markowitz, New York, New York
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................. 10,600
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for employee matchinggifts.......................................................... 15,375
Olivia P. Maynard Trust
for the Olivia Maynard and S. Olof Karlstrom Faculty Award in the School of Social Work.......... 20,000
MBF Clearing Corporation, New York, New York
for the Maria Reinhardt DeCesare Research Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center............ 14,200
Nancy S. McLelland, Berwyn, Pennsylvania
for the Class of 1979 Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........ 25,000
Mary Upjohn Meader, Kalamazoo
1,700 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation common stock for the Kelsey Museum
Expansion Project.................................................................. 101,796
Merck & Company, Inc., Rahway, New Jersey
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 10,00
Joel S. Mindel, New York, New York
for the Ophthalmology Alumni Annual Fund in the Medical School......................... 20,000
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint Paul, Minnesota
for support in the Transportation Research Institute...................................... 15,000
John K. and Patricia S. Moore, Ann Arbor
for the Patricia Skelly Moore Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Nursing............... 40,668
Kenneth H. Mortenson, New York, New York
1,300 shares of Dril-Quip, Inc., common stock
for the Champions Center in the Department of Athletics..................................... 77,565
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund.......................... 1,500,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
forresearch inthe Medical School...................................................... 77,548
Charles G. Nickson, Houston, Texas
for the Dirouhi and Carmen Dadrian Armenag Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School........ 30,000
Nobel Biocare USA, LLC, Yorba Linda, California
forsupportinthe SchoolofDentistry.............................................. 55,000
Ronald and Joan Nordgren Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Paul A. Nordgren Scholarship Fund in Civil Engineering in the College of Engineering...... 100,000
Tim O'Day, Hinsdale, Illinois
for the Timothy O'Day Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business........................ 25,000
Mary W. Palencsar Estate
forresearch intheMedical School................................................77,515
Craig C. Parker, Mill Valley, California
fortheLife SciencesInstitute...................................................25,000
George A. Peapples Trust
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 19,600
Henry B. Pearsall, Naples, Florida
3,300 shares of US Bancorp common stock
for the Henry B. Pearsall Fund in the Law School....................................... 100,386
John Pfeifer, Bloomfield Hills
for the John R. Pfeifer Collegiate Professorship in Vascular Surgery in the Medical School.......... 20,000

235



February Meeting, 2006

Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for research and other support in the College of Engineering, the College of Pharmacy,
and the Schools of Medicine and Public Health........................................... 56,500
Nancy S. Pickus, Saline
for the Albert and Nancy Pickus General Athletic Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics.... 30,000
Power Foundation, Kalamazoo
for support in the Center for the Education of Women...................................... 20,000
Barbara H. Raven, Jackson
4,900 shares of General Electric Company common stock
for support in the College of Engineering................................................. 161,480
Rehael Fund-Roger Hale/Nor Hall of the Minneapolis Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the Kelsey Museum of Archaeology....................................... 25,000
Ghassan and Manal Saab Foundation, Flint
for the Ghassan and Manal Saab Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint............ 60,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................................. 34,509
SBC, Detroit
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint........................................... 44,700
Edward I. Schalon Trust
for the Edward I. Schalon Endowed Golf Scholarship in the Department of Athletics.............. 50,000
Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Sugar Land, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering.............................................. 10,000
Tadd and Nancy Seitz Fund of the Columbus Foundation, Columbus, Ohio
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Lincoln R. Siegel, Chicago, Illinois
for the Lincoln R. Siegel Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of undergraduate
student aid in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts............................................................. 20,000
Richard D. Snyder, Ann Arbor
for the Solid State Electronics Laboratory Construction Fund in the College of Engineering,
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, the Law School, the C. S. Mott
Children's Hospital, and for the Richard and Sue Snyder Scholarship Fund in the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................. 18,456
Speckhard-Knight Charitable Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Speckhard-Knight Fund for Fetal Alcohol Syndrome in the Medical School............... 30,000
Kenneth P. Stewart, Wichita, Kansas
375 shares of General Motors common stock and a cash gift
for the Kenneth P. and Marjorie F. Stewart Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit
for scholarships in the Law School.................................................... 10,000
Waldo Devere Sturm, Pigeon
for the Sturm Family Endowment Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.......... 100,000
Target Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Terumo Cardiovascular System Corporation, Ann Arbor
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 50,000
Thompson Foundation, Plymouth
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................. 20,000
Tides Foundation, New York, New York
for the PEAK Fellows Program Fund in the School of Public Health............................ 15,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for the MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................. 32,000
George F. Valassis Charitable Lead Trust
for the Valassis Professorship of Urologic Oncology in the Medical School..................... 122,600
Donald T. Wallace, Sarasota, Florida
for the Donald T. Wallace Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the School of Music.... 25,000
Samuel L. Westerman Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Samuel L. Westerman Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics................... 10,000
Whirlpool Corporation, Benton Harbor
for the MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................. 18,000
Whitaker Foundation, Arlington, Virginia
for research in the College of Engineering............................................. 560,601
Whitman Family Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................... 20,000
Raymond I. Wilcox, Houston, Texas
200 shares of Caterpillar, Inc., common stock
for the Raymond I. and Peggy B. Wilcox Fund in the College of Engineering..................... 13,864
F. Stuart Wilkins, Canton, Ohio
4,122 shares of FirstMerit Corporation common stock and a cash gift
for the Building Fund in the Law School............................................  100,000

236



February Meeting, 2006

Elizabeth Ruthruff Wilson Foundation, Tecumseh
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women and for the
Marilyn Mason-William Steinhoff Scholarship Fund in the School of Music...................... 10,000
Lauren A. Woods, Albany, California
for the Dr. Lauren and Carol O. Woods Fund in the Medical School............................ 50,000
Xerox Corporation U.S.A., Rochester, New York
for research in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...................... 21,100

Additional gifts ranging from $5,000
following donors:
Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Park, Illinois
Howard and Nina Dodge Abrams Philanthropic Fund of
the United Jewish Foundation of Metropolitan
Detroit, Bloomfield Hills
Vinay Ahuja, Ann Arbor
Anastasios Alexiou, Ann Arbor
American Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education,
Rockville, Maryland
Donald C. Baker, Beaverton
Terry Barr Sales Agency, Inc., Southfield
Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, D. C.
Bennett Black Family Trust
Franklin F. Brehmer, Wixom
Carbomedics, Inc., Austin, Texas
ChevronTexaco, Concord, California
Clan Crawford, Jr., Trust
Class of 1945, Salem, South Carolina
Click Wine Group, Seattle, Washington
Coca Cola Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
Carl Cohen, Ann Arbor
Nadine Cohodas, Washington, D. C.
John E. Cunningham, Bloomfield Hills
Dental Art Laboratories, Inc., Lansing
Dorot Foundation, New York, New York
Ecolab Foundation, Saint Paul, Minnesota
William Bradford Edwards Estate
Egyptian Cultural and Educational Bureau,
Washington, D. C.
Elizabeth C. Erwin, Bloomfield Hills
Thomas and Elaine Evans Fund of the Fidelity
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Jeffrey D. Fenley Trust
John W. Geissman, Albuquerque, New Mexico
Georgia-Pacific Corporation Atlanta Division, Atlanta,
Georgia
Russell J. Gibb, Dearborn
Philip C. Gilbert, Grosse Pointe
Global Enterprise for Water Technology, Grand Rapids
Gussin Foundation, Inc., New Brunswick, New Jersey
Harbor Capital Advisors, Inc., Toledo, Ohio
Frederick A. Henderson, Miami, Florida
HFF Foundation, West Bloomfield
Andrew G. Hurst, Boca Raton, Florida
Craig Idema, Northville
International Business Machines Corporation, Endicott,
New York
Johnson Controls Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
George L. Kenyon, Ann Arbor
David M. Kimball, Brighton
Jerry Knight, Ann Arbor

to $9,999 in value were received from the
M-Den, Inc., Ann Arbor
Alice N. G. MacDonald, Ann Arbor
Malloy, Inc., Ann Arbor
Mike Manley, Flint
Marsal Family Foundation, New York, New York
Eric M. Mason, New York, New York
Sabrina Meek, Maumee, Ohio
Charles and Florence Milan Foundation, West
Bloomfield
Miller Parking Company, Detroit
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
Murdock Foundation, Manitou Beach
Katta G. Murty, Ann Arbor
Nathalie Stern Trust
William A. Newman, Ann Arbor
Richard D. O'Connor, New York, New York
Panos Papalambros, Ann Arbor
Mark A. Pfleger, Chicago, Illinois
PPG Industries Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
QAD, Inc., Carpinteria, California
Robbins Family Fund of the National Philanthropic
Trust, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania
John C. Rocchio, Pacific Palisades, California
David M. Roebuck, Williamsburg
Sheldon Revocable Trust
Rollin M. Smith Trust
James K. Sobeski, Champaign, Illinois
Abdul Aziz Sultan, Safat, Kuwait
Michael E. Sweet, Racine, Wisconsin
TECO-Westinghouse Motor Company, Round Rock,
Texas
Robert A. Toigo Foundation, Oakland, California
Allan L. Tompkins, Jackson
Alston K. Twiss Family Charitable Fund of the
Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program,
Southeastern, Pennsylvania
UGS PLM Solutions, Maryland Heights, Missouri
University of Michigan Club of Toledo, Temperance
Frederick S. Upton Foundation, Saint Joseph
Rodolfo Uy Ham, Flint
Carolyn Van Boven, North Palm Beach, Florida
Varnum, Riddering, Schmidt & Howlett, LLP, Grand
Rapids
Gary J. Wagerson, Bloomfield Hills
Samuel A. Walk, Pinckney
Weiermiller Family Fund of the Ayco Charitable Fund,
Clifton Park, New York
Paul A. Weller, Grand Rapids
Julia A. Zdanek, Plymouth

237



February Meeting, 2006

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Beverly Franzblau Baker, Bloomfield Hills
a Michael Hall welded steel sculpture for the Museum of Art
Duane N. Dietrich, Muncie, Indiana
a collection of historical letters and documents for the Clements Library
Angela Dogancay, New York, New York
five pieces of Art by Burham Dogancay for the Museum of Art
Alan Eisenberg, New York, New York
a large collection of playbills from national and international theatre plays for the University Library
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company Saint Paul, Minnesota
various 3M products and other equipment for the College of Engineering
National Instruments, Austin, Texas
one PXI-5560 RF Signal Analyzer, one PXI-5671 RF Vector Signal Generator, and other equipment for the
College of Engineering
Bertram L. O'Neill, Jr., West Chester, Pennsylvania
a series of naval illustrations of historical battles for the Clements Library
Jack A. Rounick, Radnor, Pennsylvania
16 pieces of various art works for the Museum of Art
Personnel Actions and Personnel Reports. Provost Gramlich called attention to
a request to extend the period of appointment for the Thurnau Professorships through
the period of active appointment at the University. Upon approval, the Thurnau
Professorship title will be permanently reinstated for all past Thurnau professors who
lost this designation after 3 years. He also noted that 6 new individuals are being
recommended for approval as Thurnau professors effective July 1, 2006.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Andrews, Margaret, Ph.D., Professor of Nursing and Director, Department of Nursing, UM-Flint School
of Health Professions and Studies, January 1, 2006
Kondrashov, Alexey S., Ph.D., Andrei R. Skovoroda Collegiate Professor in the Life Sciences and
Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
September 2006
Litman, Jessica, J.D., Professor of Law, Law School, September 1, 2006
Pietropaolo, Massimo T., M.D., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, without tenure, Medical School, May 1, 2006
Raphael, Yehoash, Ph.D., R. Jamison and Betty J. Wilson Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, March 1,
2006-February 28, 2011, and Professor of Otorhinolaryngology, with tenure, Medical School
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective September 1, 2006
Foster, John E., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, College
of Engineering
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bailey, Charles W., Chair of the Department of Social Work, UM-Flint School of Education and Human
Services, July 1, 2006-June 30, 2009
Zearfoss, Sarah C., Assistant Dean and Admissions Officer, Law School, March 1, 2006-August 31,
2009

238



February Meeting, 2006

JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Stillman, Amy K., Associate Professor of American Culture, with tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, also appointed Associate Professor of Musicology, without tenure, School of Music,
January 1, 2006-May 31, 2010
Waas, Anthony W., Professor of Aerospace Engineering, with tenure, also appointed Professor of
Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, January 1, 2006-December 31,
2008
Wang, Shaomeng, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, also appointed
Associate Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure, College of Pharmacy, February 1, 2006
ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective March 1, 2006
Renaming Existing Collegiate Professorship
Richard E. Balzhiser Collegiate Professorship in Chemical Engineering, College of Engineering
Shien-Ming (Sam) Wu Collegiate Professorship in Manufacturing Science, College of Engineering
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Appointments to Named Professorships
Gallimore, Alec D., Arthur F. Thurau Professor, July 1, 2006
Palincsar, Annemarie Sullivan, Arthur F. Thumau Professor, July 1, 2006
Polk, Thad A., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2006
Sparling, Peter D., Arthur F. Thurau Professor, July 1, 2006
Wright, Steven J., Arthur F. Thurau Professor, July 1, 2006
Zirbes, Georgette M., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, July 1, 2006
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Myers, Jeffrey L., A. James French Professor of Diagnostic Pathology, Medical School, February 1, 2006
Najafi, Khalil, Schlumberger Professor of Engineering, College of Engineering, March 1, 2006-February
28,2011
Appointment to Collegiate Professorship
Forrest, Stephen R., William Gould Dow Collegiate Professor of Electrical Engineering, College of
Engineering, March 1, 2006-February 28, 2011
Other Transactions
Extension of appointment period for Arthur F. Thurnau Professorships through the period of the
appointee's active service on the faculty at the University of Michigan, effective February 17, 2006
(applicable to all active former Thurau professors)
Establishment of position of Associate Dean, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services,
January 1, 2006
Gordan, Virginia B., title changed to Assistant Dean for International Affairs, Law School, March 1,
2006
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
School of Dentistry Executive Committee
Bradley, Robert M., retroactive, January 1, 2006-October 31, 2007, vice John P. Gobetti, on retirement
furlough
Division of Kinesiology Executive Committee
Edington, Dee W., retroactive, January 1-August 15, 2006, vice Katarina T. Borer, on sabbatical
Ulrich, Dale A., retroactive, January 1-August 15, 2006, vice Richard A. Wolfe, on sabbatical

239



February Meeting, 2006

ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective January 1-April 30, 2006
Beyerlein, Susan C., M.P.A., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Dearbom School of Education
Blunk, Merrie L., Intermittent Lecturer in Education, School of Education
Cheng, Allen C. H., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Engineering Undergraduate Education, College of Engineering
Cheng, Wen-Chein, Ph.D., Lecturer I in History of Art, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Council, Terry L., Lecturer I in Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Cronin, Kasey V., M.A., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services
Deschere, Linda, J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
Gabriel, Shelly M., M.A., Lecturer I in Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearbom College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters
Garcia, Arminda M., M.S.W., Lecturer I in Social Work, UM-Flint School of Education and Human
Services
Halperin, Laura, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Comparative Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Horton, Henry, B.S., Lecturer I in Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Jewkes, Abigail M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Jodway, Sherry L., M.A., Lecturer I in English, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Kaenzig, Monica S., M.M., Lecturer I in Music, School of Music
Kelley, Jon S., Lecturer I in Philosophy, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Kent, Deborah A., M.Ed., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Dearbom School of Education
Killeen, Mary B., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing
Krishnan, Suresh E., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Finance, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Long, Miriam L., M.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearbom College of Arts
Makman, Lisa H., Ph.D., Lecturer I in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science
McGuire, Kristin M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McNaughton, James, Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Miller, Cathleen L., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Management, UM-Flint School of Management
Oatley, Sheila M., M.A., Lecturer I in Education UM-Dearbom School of Education
Pecina, Susana M., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Pikula, Karen E., B.S., Lecturer I in Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters
Rapai, William, M.A., Lecturer I in Communications, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters
Roth, Aaron H., B.A., Lecturer I in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Schmalz, Geoffrey C. R., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Classical Studies and Lecturer I in History, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Shkolnik, Nina, M.S., Lecturer I in Slavic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts
Shurter, James, B.F.A., Lecturer I in Communication and Visual Arts, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences
Solomon, Claire, M.A., Lecturer I in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Spangler, Kirk D., Intermittent Lecturer in Education, School of Education
Urbaczewski, Lise, M.S., Lecturer I in Management, UM-Dearbom School of Management
Vaught, Kimberly R., B.A., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Dearbom School of Education
Zalzala, Alaadin H., M.A., Lecturer I in Arabic, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS'
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective January 1-April 30, 2006
Baveja, Roohi P., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Economics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, personal
leave
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Bullough, Alexandra S., F.R.C.A., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, January
1-December 31, 2006

240



February Meeting, 2006

Clark, Marin K., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1, 2006-May 31, 2009
Donaldson, Laurie D., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, January 5,
2006-January 4, 2007
Eisenberg, Joseph N., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, January 1,
2006-May 31, 2009
Grbic, Anthony, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2006-May 31, 2009
Hoggatt, Katherine J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, January 1,
2006-May 31, 2009
Katapodi, Maria C., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, January 1, 2006-May 31,
2007
Khaled, Yasser A., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 1,
2006-December 31, 2009
Lisabeth, Lynda D., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, January 1,
2006-July 31, 2009
Mulligan, Lumen N., J.D., Assistant Professor of Business, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1, 2006-May 31, 2008
Newblatt, Joshua I., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, February 1,
2006-January 31, 2007
Niemi, Nathan A., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1, 2006-May 31, 2009
Radwi, Ather, M.B.B.S., Clinical Lecturer in Radiology, Medical School, January 10-December 31, 2006
Sanjian, Ara, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of History, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
January 1-December 31, 2006
Trumble, Stephen J., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
January 1, 2006-December 31, 2008
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Herscher, Andrew H., from Assistant Professor of Architecture to Assistant Professor of Architecture, A.
Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning and Assistant Professor of Slavic
Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May
31, 2009
Holland, Christine L., M.D., from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Internal Medicine, Medical School, December 1, 2005-November 2, 2007
Larsen, Larissa S., from Assistant Professor of Landscape Architecture to Assistant Professor of
Landscape Architecture, School of Natural Resources and Environment and Assistant Professor of
Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2008
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Federbush, Paul G., Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2006
Green, Daniel G., Professor Emeritus of Physiological Optics, Medical School, Professor Emeritus of
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Professor Emeritus of Biomedical Engineering,
College of Engineering, and Professor Emeritus of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, January 1-December 31, 2006
Griffin, Henry C., Professor Emeritus of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July
1-December 31, 2005
Hosford, William F., Jr., Professor Emeritus of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, College of
Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2006
Lindenauer, S. Martin, Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, December 1, 2005-November 30,
2006
Roloff, Dietrich W., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
January 1-December 31, 2006

241



February Meeting, 2006

ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Acosta-Hughes, Benjamin B., Associate Professor of Greek and Latin, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Bergeron, Suzanne L., Associate Professor of Women's Studies, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Social Sciences, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical
leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Blair, David C., Professor of Computer and Information Systems, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School
of Business, extended sick leave, January 1-December 31, 2006
Cepuran, Joseph A., Associate Professor of Public Administration, with tenure, UM-Dearbom School of
Education, retirement furlough, January 1, 2006-April 30, 2007
Danloff, Tracey A., Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, extended sick leave,
November 1, 2005-January 29, 2006
Freedman, Jonathan E., Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, and Professor of
American Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus leave,
January 1-May 31, 2006
Gillespie, Carolyn M., Professor of Theatre, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Gitelman, Zvi Y., Preston R. Tisch Professor of Judaic Studies and Professor of Political Science, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31,
2006
Gobetti, John P., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, retirement furlough, January
1-December 31, 2006
Hook, Peter H., Professor of Indo-Aryan Languages, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, with
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, teaching leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Kahn, Margaret F., Professor of Political Science, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Kittendorf, Anne L., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, extended sick leave, January
6-January 23, 2006, and family medical leave, January 24-March 6, 2006
Liang, Jersey, Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public Health,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2006
Linn, William J., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, UM-Dearbom
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, medical leave, September 20, 2005-April 30, 2006
Loeb, Roger C., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Master, Tarannum A., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, extended sick leave,
December 23, 2005-January 26, 2006 and on family medical leave, January 27-March 5, 2006
Morash, Ronald P., Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Olsen, Laura J., Associate Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, September 28-November 28,
2005
Remski, Joan C., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts,
Sciences and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Sheldon, Jane P., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Silverman, Emily D., Assistant Professor of Natural Resources, School of Natural Resources and
Environment, sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2006
Smith, Jonathan, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of
Arts, Sciences, and Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Twomey, Michael J., Professor of Economics, with tenure, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Wu, Audrey H., Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, medical leave, October
10-November 18, 2005
Zhao, Jing, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters,
sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2006

242



February Meeting, 2006

CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Kampfner, Roberto R., Associate Professor of Computer and Information Science, with tenure,
UM-Dearborn College of Engineering and Computer Science, sabbatical leave, September
1-December 31, 2005. Previous reported as September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Somers, Margaret R., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor of History, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave, September 1, 2005-May 31,
2006. Previously reported as September 1, 2005-January 31, 2006
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Deceased
Fleisher, David, Associate Professor of Pharmaceutical Sciences, with tenure, College of Pharmacy,
January 7, 2006
Leith, Emmett N., Schlumberger Professor of Engineering and Professor of Electrical Engineering,
College of Engineering, December 23, 2005
Resigned
Alcock, Susan E., John H. D'Arms Collegiate Professor of Classical Architecture and Classics and
Professor of Classical Architecture and Classics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, December 31, 2005
Aurora, Taruna K., Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School, January 14,
2006
Cherry, John F., Professor of Classical Archaeology and Greek, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2005
De Maeseneer, Michel, Clinical Professor of Radiology, Medical School, December 31, 2005
Fredrickson, Barbara L., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Professor of Management and Organizations, without tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, December 31, 2005
Hodne, Krista A., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 16, 2006
Khatri, Lakshmi J., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 31, 2006
Kirsch, Douglas B., Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical School, February 10, 2006
Nelson, J. Michael, Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, December 31, 2005
Suri, Pawan, Clinical Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School, January 14, 2006
Worley, Daniel T., Clinical Lecturer in Music Composition, School of Music, April 30, 2005
Retired
Shevrin, Howard, Professor of Psychology, with tenure, Medical School and Professor of Psychology,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2005
Till, Gerd O., Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, December 31, 2005
Tosney, Kathryn W., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, December 31, 2005
Term Completed
Bilello, John C., Professor Emeritus of Materials Science and Engineering, College of Engineering,
December 31, 2005
McGee, Colleen S., Lecturer in Engineering, College of Engineering, May 31, 2005
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 2 retiring
faculty members.
George H. Koepke, M.D., professor of physical medicine and rehabilitation in the
Medical School, retired from active faculty status in 1976, after a most productive
career as a clinician, teacher, and leader in the field of physical medicine and
rehabilitation (PM&R).

243



February Meeting, 2006

Dr. Koepke received his B.S. degree from the University of Toledo in 1945 and
his M.D. degree from the University of Cincinnati in 1949. He completed his internship
at the Toledo (Ohio) Hospital in 1950 and completed his PM&R residency at the
University of Michigan in 1953 as the department's first resident. After a year in private
practice, he joined the faculty in 1954 as an assistant professor. He was promoted to
associate professor in 1958 and professor in 1966. He retired in 1976, after having
served on the faculty for 22 years.
Dr. Koepke was a pioneer in the field of PM&R. Within the department, he
founded the Electroneuromyography (EMG) Laboratory and developed the Division of
Orthotics and Prosthetics for the care of patients with amputations. In the 1950s, at the
height of the polio epidemic, Dr. Koepke developed and implemented new
rehabilitation techniques for respirator-dependent patients. Working with Dr. Irving
Feller on the treatment of burn patients, Dr. Koepke also became known as a national
expert in burn rehabilitation. He was certified by the American Board of Physical
Medicine and Rehabilitation in 1955 and served as its chair from 1970-76. He was a
founding  member   of the   American   Association  of Electrodiagnosis  and
Electromyography  (now  the  American   Association  of Neuromuscular   and
Electrodiagnostic Medicine) and was one of its early presidents, and he was vice chair
of the American Board of Electrodiagnosis and Electromyography from 1988-92. He
was president of both the Washtenaw County Medical Society and the Michigan State
Medical Society.
Dr. Koepke was a strong mentor and a major influence on trainees in the field of
physical medicine and rehabilitation. He was instrumental in developing the science and
rationale for the clinical aspects of PM&R, including electrodiagnostic medicine,
peripheral neuropathy, amputation surgery, prosthetic rehabilitation, and rehabilitation
of burns. He has had a significant, lasting influence on the field of PM&R.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated service by
naming George H. Koepke professor emeritus of physical medicine and rehabilitation.
Cecil G. Miskel, Ed.D., professor of education in the School of Education,
retired from active faculty status on January 31, 2006.
Professor Miskel received his B.S. degree from the University of Oklahoma in
1963 and his M.S. and Ed.D. degrees from Oklahoma State University in 1967 and
1970, respectively. From 1970-82, he served on the faculty of the University of Kansas,
where he rose from assistant professor to associate professor (1973) to professor (1978)
and served as associate dean for research (1976-78) and associate vice chancellor for
research (1978-82). He joined the University of Utah in 1982, serving as professor and
chair of the Department of Educational Administration (1982-83) and dean of the
Graduate School of Education (1983-88). Professor Miskel joined the University of
Michigan faculty in 1988 as a professor and as dean of the School of Education.
During his ten years as dean, Professor Miskel led the School of Education to a
position of national leadership by recruiting leading faculty, building new strengths in
research, and creating two innovative and nationally recognized master's programs
designed to attract top students to the education field. Under his leadership, the school's
use of instructional technology was dramatically updated with the creation of the
Prechter Laboratory for Interactive Technology in 1994 and the design of special
multimedia classrooms in 1995 and 1997. During this period, ground-breaking research

244



February Meeting, 2006

was launched in areas such as early literacy, mathematics teacher education, assessment
of student learning and of teaching, and education policy.
Professor Miskel is an expert in school organization and administration and in
education policy analysis. His research and scholarship investigated state and national
policy issues related to instruction in reading; for this work, he received the William
Davis Memorial Award in 1980 and 1983. He served as editor of the Educational
Administration Quarterly for the 1987 and 1988 volumes and served two terms as a
member of its editorial board. He also co-authored six editions of Education
Administration. Theory, Research, and Practice, one of the leading textbooks in the
field of school administration.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher, scholar and administrator by
naming Cecil G. Miskel professor emeritus of education and dean emeritus.
Vice President Churchill also announced that this would be the last meeting for
Carol Volker of her staff, as Ms. Volker and her husband will be moving to Virginia.
Memorials. Vice President Churchill submitted a memorial statement for David
Fleischer, associate professor of pharmacological sciences.
The Regents of the University of Michigan acknowledge with profound sadness
the death of David Fleisher, Ph.D., associate professor of pharmaceutical sciences in
the College of Pharmacy. Professor Fleisher died at his home on January 7, 2006, after
a long fight with lymphoma. He was 6 1.
Professor Fleisher was born in Rochester, New York, and earned his B.S. degree
in pharmacy from the State University of New York at Buffalo in 1967. He began his
career as a staff pharmacist, first at Children's Hospital in Buffalo and then at Strong
Memorial Hospital in Rochester, New York. After earning his M.S. degree in applied
mathematics from the University of Rochester in 1977, Professor Fleisher and his
family relocated to Madison, Wisconsin, where he earned his Ph.D. degree in
pharmaceutics from the University of Wisconsin in 1983. He joined the University of
Michigan College of Pharmacy as an assistant research scientist in 1983, was appointed
assistant professor of pharmaceutics in 1985, and was promoted to associate professor
in 1992.
Professor Fleisher' s research focused on food and nutrient effects on drug
delivery, absorption, and metabolism, and his work had a very significant impact on
Food and Drug Administration regulatory guidelines. He was a highly respected
scientist and educator who touched the lives of all of his students and colleagues in a
very special way. Professor Fleisher will be remembered for his genuine interest in
people, and for his compassion and generosity. He was known for his extraordinary
kindness, his sense of humor, humility, and passion for life, and his remarkable capacity
to help and inspire those around him.
As  eAoun   1helos0f urbeovdcolegu,1e ls1eted             urh    Arfl

245



February Meeting, 2006

of the degree lists are on file in the Office of the Vice President and Secretary of the
University.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) C.S. Mott
Children's and Women's Hospital Replacement Project
Executive Vice President Slottow commented that since completion of the
schematic design for this project, the size has increased by approximately 100,000 gross
square feet, to approximately 1,100,000 gross square feet, and it is recommended that
the budget be increased by 5% to accommodate increased programming, to achieve
LEED ("Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design") certification, and to meet
the increased cost of some of the materials. He noted that the UMHHC has updated its
strategic 10-year capital plan and the increased budget and scope is entirely consistent
with that plan. He said that Ms. Pat Warner, associate director and chief administrative
officer of C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, would be assisting with the schematic design
presentation.
Executive Vice President Kelch commented that he is "thrilled by the project," and
stated that it is an excellent representation of the Health System's commitment to
growth and investment in one of its strategic principles. He noted that the entire health
system will benefit from the project through prudent use of the facilities that will be
liberated by it. He observed that the costs associated with seeking LEED certification
for this particular project will be warranted over the long term.
Ms. Warner reported that numerous individuals had been involved in the design of
this project, including more than 450 faculty, staff, and students and more than 40
families and patients, all of whom will remain involved during the operational planning
stage. She thanked the Regents on behalf of all who have been involved in the project
"for the opportunity to create one of the most innovative and exciting children's and
women's hospital, not only in this country, but, I think, in the world." She also thanked
Dr. Kelch for his leadership and Regent Brandon for his role as a philanthropic leader in
the project.
Ms. Warner introduced Mr. Ronald W. Dennis, principal of HKS Architects, P.C.
and head of its health care section, and Mr. Douglas Compton, senior vice president
with HKS and lead designer. Mr. Compton displayed the site plan, noting that the
Arboretum is located along the east and southeastern border. He said that the footprint
of the structure has been maximized on the site in the shape of an "L", consisting of the
hospital portion of the structure (850,000 square feet and 12 stories high) and the
clinical and outpatient functions (250,000 square feet and 9 stories high). He described
the functions that would occur at the various levels of the structure, noting that patient
rooms would have a view of the arboretum and river valley and that extensive
landscaping is planned. There will be a sky bridge connecting the parking structure to
the hospital and a connector from this building to the second level of University

246



February Meeting, 2006

Hospitals and clinics. There will be a separate drive and entrance point for emergency
vehicles and walk-in traffic.
Mr. Compton displayed and described floor plans for the 2nd floor, which includes
the main lobby, retail food and gift shops, and a family resource center, the 4th floor
(diagnostic and treatment areas); and the 12th floor (representing a nursing unit). Ms.
Warner pointed out that locating the family resource center in the hub of the public
space is an innovative feature of the UM facility. Mr. Compton noted that there will be
separate elevator banks for the different user groups in the facility and that a regional
infectious disease containment unit will be located on the 12th floor. Another feature is
that all rooms, including those in the intensive care units, will be single rooms. There
will also be undeveloped shell space on each floor, providing room for growth.
Mr. Compton displayed photos showing views of the facility from various points
on campus, noting that it will be a visible and recognizable feature within the medical
complex. He noted that the exterior materials and coloration will be reflective of
existing campus architecture. The patient rooms and other areas of the facility will
incorporate extensive amounts of glass to provide natural light and outdoor views.
In response to a question from Regent Maynard about the use of the old women's
and children's facility, Dr. Kelch said that it will be renovated for use by adult services
programs, allowing for expansion of the old hospital and growth in adult services,
which will enable the entire health system to thrive. It was noted that construction of
the new facility is projected to be completed at the end of 2010 and move-in is
scheduled for Spring, 2011.
President Coleman pointed out that the space provided for the regional infectious
disease containment unit will be key to pandemic planning for the entire region. Dr.
Kelch noted that the building has been designed to address security concerns and will
feature limited and controllable access. In the worse case scenario, the entire hospital
could be turned into a controlled access, specialized use, facility. Ms. Warner
commented that at every entrance, individuals will be greeted by a human being. All
entrances will be staffed either 24 hours per day, or during all of the hours that the
entrance is open.
Regent Brandon stated that it was 26 years ago that his identical twin sons were
rushed to Mott Hospital where their lives were saved, so he is especially gratified to see
this project come to fruition. He announced that the original goal of $50 million for the
philanthropic campaign for this facility that he and Coach Carr and their spouses are
leading has been raised to $75 million. "I would take great pride in moving this item
for approval," he said. Regent Taylor seconded the motion, and the motion to approve
the revised budget, and scope, and schematic design for the University of Michigan
Hospitals and Health Centers C.S. Mott Children's and Women's Hospitals
Replacement Project as presented at the meeting was approved unanimously. A round
of applause followed.
Alternative Asset Commitment (Graham Partners II Co-Investment, L.P.)
The Regents were informed that a $20 million follow-on private equity
commitment had been made to Graham Partners II Co-Investment, L.P.

247



February Meeting, 2006

Alternative Asset Commitments (ARC Energy Fund V, L.P.; Rubenstein
Properties Fund, L.P.; Altor Fund II, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the following commitments: $13 million (Canadian dollars)
from the Long Term Portfolio to ARC Energy Fund V, L.P.; $20 million from the Long
Term Portfolio to Rubenstein Properties Fund, L.P.; and ~17 million from the Long
Term Portfolio to Altor Fund II, L.P.
Long Term Portfolio Asset Allocation
Executive Vice President Slottow explained that this is a request to widen the
range of the fixed income allocation in the Long Term Portfolio to allow for variances
in the fixed income allocation relative to the model portfolio approved in 2000, and to
make it consistent to the current investment environment. On a motion by Regent
Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved widening
the allowable range for fixed income allocation to 10 percent to 35 percent, which
would allow for variances in the fixed income allocation relative to the model portfolio
that are more consistent with that of other asset classes.
Regent Newman expressed appreciation to Mr. Erik Lundberg, the University's
chief investment officer, for all of his efforts in managing the University's investments.
Hutchins Hall Classroom 138 and Administrative Office Space Renovation
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Hutchins Hall Classroom 138 and Administrative Office
Space Renovation Project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Cancer and
Geriatrics Centers Building Cancer Center Infusion Expansion
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) Cancer and Geriatrics Centers Building Cancer Center Infusion Expansion
Project as described, authorized commissioning of the architectural firm of Ann Arbor
Architects Collaborative for its design, and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital Clinical Laboratory Renovation
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) University Hospital Clinical Laboratory Renovation project as described,
authorized commissioning the architectural firm of SSOE Inc. For its design, and
authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts providing
that bids are within the approved budget.

248



February Meeting, 2006

Medical Sciences Research Building I (MSRB I)
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Medical Sciences Research Building I Mass Spectrometer
Laboratory Project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Stephen M. Ross School of Business Facilities Enhancement Project
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that Dean Dolan and colleagues have
raised $40 million in 9 months in order to support this project and successfully meet the
full financial commitment required by the $145 million budget. On a motion by Regent
Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously authorized issuing bids
and awarding construction contracts for demolition and early procurement packages for
the Stephen M. Ross School of Business Facilities Enhancement Project provided that
bids are within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 3 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following
items:
License Agreement with Cielo MedSolutions, LLC
The Regents approved a license agreement with Cielo MedSolutions, LLC, for the
technology entitled "ClinfoTracker" (UM File No. 2860). Because James Price, part
owner of Cielo MedSolutions, LLC, is also a University of Michigan employee, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Cielo
MedSolutions, LLC.
2.   The license terms include giving Cielo an exclusive license with the right to grant
sublicenses. Cielo will pay a royalty on sales. The University will retain ownership of
the licensed technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract my be amended by consent of
the parties. Additional review by the Conflict of Interest Board will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mr. James Price, a University of
Michigan employee, is part owner of Cielo MedSolutions, LLC. He is not an inventor
of the licensed technology and is not entitled to any personal participation in the
sharing of revenue received by the University.
First Amendment to Patent Option Agreement with Incept BioSystems
The Regents approved the first amendment to a patent option agreement with
Incept BioSystems, for the technology entitled "Handheld Recirculation System and
Customized Media for Microfluidic Cell Culture" (UM File No. 3297). Because Drs.
Shuichi Takayama and Gary Smith, partial owners of Incept BioSystems, are also
University of Michigan employees, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan

249



February Meeting, 2006

Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Incept
BioSystems.
2.   The agreement terms include giving Incept BioSystems a twelve-month option
(extendable by six months) to negotiate an exclusive license with the right to grant
sublicenses. A term sheet for the patent license agreement to be negotiated is attached
to the patent option agreement that contains terms for a royalty on sales and
reimbursement of patent expenses. The University will retain ownership of the
licensed technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally.
No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract my be amended by consent of
the parties. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Board will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Drs. Takayama and Smith, University
of Michigan employees, are also part owners of Incept BioSystems. They have waived
any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.
Research Agreements with Ascenta Therapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved research agreements with Ascenta Therapeutics, Inc., for
projects that involve study and testing to further develop promising small molecule
inhibitors for use against various cancers. Because Drs. Marc Lippman, Shaomeng
Wang, and Dajun Yang, University of Michigan employees, also are partial owners of
Ascenta Therapeutics, Inc.; Drs. Lippman and Wang are also directors and members of
the company's scientific advisory board; and Dr. Yang is also an employee and officer
of the company. Therefore, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   The parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
Ascenta Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreements conform to University Policy. Dr. Liang Xu, who is an
inventor of the technology licensed to the company but has no direct financial interest
in the company, will direct one of the projects over an initial one-year period at an
estimated cost of $100,000. Dr. Wang is participating as a co-investigator at the
University.
The other projects will directed by Dr. Thomas Carey of the Department of
Otolaryngology and Dr. Kenneth Pienta of the Department of Internal Medicine. Dr.
Yang is not participating in any of the projects as a University employee but will be
the principal investigator at the company for Dr. Xu's project.
The contracts include a provision allowing extension and modification of the projects
upon mutual agreement of the parties. University procedures for approval of these
changes will be followed, and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Board will
be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Marc Lippman, Shaomeng Wang, and Dajun Yang
arise from the fact they are both University of Michigan employees, and partial owners
of Ascenta Therapeutics, Inc.

250



February Meeting, 2006

Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Building Solid State Electronics Lab
Addition and Renovation
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that the original project approved by the
Regents in February 2005 involved a project budget of $28 million. Since that time, the
scope of the project has increased in size in order to accommodate the research needs of
a newly recruited faculty member and a $70 million grant to support nanotechnology
research. In addition, when the bids were analyzed, it was determined that the
complexity, safety standards, and some of the materials costs had not been adequately
recognized by the team of outside expert estimators in setting the original budget. All
of these factors have required an increase in the project budget to $48 million.
Executive Vice President Slottow pointed out that this is only the second time in
the past five years and more than 100 projects that it has been necessary to seek a
budget increase after the project has gone out to bid. The increased cost will be funded
by the College of Engineering, and the increased scope will be funded from investment
income.
Regent Brandon commented that the Finance, Audit and Investment Committee
takes these matters very seriously, and this situation has generated much discussion
within the committee. In addition to the change in scope and market factors, the project
estimating had not been up to the University's usual standards, and this will lead to a
re-evaluation of the estimating process. However, given these considerations, he said
he is convinced that the right thing to do is to move forward despite the increase in the
cost of the project.
Regent Deitch observed that the University has a huge volume of construction and
that he has great admiration for the talents of Associate Vice President Baier. He
observed, however, that given the current volume of construction, it may be worth
considering increasing the staffing in this area going forward.
Regent White pointed out that this project is unique in that it would be difficult to
scale it back given all of the safety issues and specialized equipment it involves.
However, if this were a different kind of project, there may have been some leeway in
eliminating some of the features.
Executive Vice President Slottow agreed that this project has very unique
technical requirements that require specialized expertise, and said that the comments are
well taken and will be carefully considered.
On a motion by Regent Deitch, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the revised project scope and budget for the Electrical
Engineering and Computer Science Building Solid State Electronics Lab Addition and
Renovation Project as described in the Regents Communication, and authorized issuing
the project for bids and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within
the approved budget.
UM-Dearborn Safety Office
Chancellor Little commented that the certification of the public safety officers on
the Dearborn campus is planned to occur in a staged fashion over a period of four years.
He noted that there has been much discussion of this proposal on campus, and believes

251



February Meeting, 2006

this is a prudent step to take. On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent
Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved the licensing of UM-Dearborn campus
safety officers pursuant to Public Act 120.
A five-minute break followed.
Public Comments
The Public Comments session began at 11:50 a.m. The Regents heard comments
from the following individuals, on the topics indicated: Jim Mogensen, citizen, on the
town/gown relationship; Alice Ralph, alumna, on the Gordon Hall Historic District;
David Boyle, alumnus, on UM neglect toward minorities; Andrea Dewees, student, on
support for international students and workers who encounter problems entering the US;
Rese Fox, student and member of the Michigan Student Assembly, on general student
concerns; and Elizabeth Neilson, student, on the University of Michigan Dance
Marathon.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 12:15 p.m. The
next meeting is scheduled for March 17, 2006.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretary of the University

252



MARCH MEETING, 2006

The LUniversity of Mi7chigani
March 17, 2006
The Regents convened at 9:25 a-m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner,
Taylor, and White. Also present were Vice President and Secretary Churchill, Vice
President Forrest,In-terim Provost Gramlich,  Vice President Harper, Executive Vice
President Keich, Vice President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May,
Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, and
Vice President Wilbatks.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order.
Michigan Radio. President Coleman commented that the developments
surrounding the University's radio station are of utmost importance, and made the
following statement-:
"The University and Michigan Public Media share a deep commitment to
education and the public good. It is the bedrockq ofourprogramnmning. In particular, -we
are proud of Mlichigan Radio's award-winning contributions to informing and
educating listeners throughout our state.  The recently discovered problems wvith
financial controls are completely unacceptable and stand in sharp contrast to the core
values of the University of Mifchiganl. University leaders acted immediately upon
discovering this information and a thorough audit has been conducted to identij  and
correct all the problems. I wvant to assure our supporters that we will take every
possible step to insure that this will not happen again. Public radio eifoys a special
trust with its listeners and I am committed to maintaining tatbod wh  sup
of-IMichigan Radio."
University Faculty and Sabbaticals. President Coleman noted that the issue of
faculty sabbaticals had recently made headlines in local newspapers, and that the
University needs to provide better explanations of the purpose of sabbaticals to the
public. She stated that sabbaticals are absolutely essential to scholarship, noting that
"knowledge does not progress without research, and a sabbatical leave makes possible
intensive research and creativity."  Sabbaticals allow faculty uninterrupted time for
exhaustive work, which is not possible to do while teaching, conducting on-campus
research, and engaging in public service. She gave an example of advances that have
been made in AJDS education in Africa and through religious entities by a University
faculty member during her sabbatical leave. This experience, which will enhance the
knowledge she can impart as a teacher and researcher, will benefit students and society
President Coleman highlghedth ach~ievement of Caroly     Jantscha 20-year-ol
senor in the ~Scho of Musi,  wh has been aw:ardedthe o  siin of prncipaltua    with
the prestiigious Ph~iladelphia Orhestr, makking:herboth the first woan; tua.player to
sit with a: major  America  symhn      orcestra  and the younget    member of this

253



March Meeting, 2006

orchestra. Regent McGowan agreed that this is an astonishing accomplishment forthis
young woman.
President Coleman also commented on the University's recently announced
initiative to expand its outreach efforts to community college transfer students from low
and moderate income families.
Regent Deitch thanked President Coleman for her leadership in moving forward on
the Michigan Radio matter, and alsocommended the effrts by the Regents' Finance,
Audit and Investment Committee, chaired by Regent Bradon and including Regents
White and McGowan. The committee's work has been very important in ensuring public
trust in the Regents' goveance of the University.
Presentation: Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
President Coleman introduced Rebecca Blank, dean of the Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy.
Dean Blank noted that the mission of the school is to prepare students for
leadership in areas of public affairs and public policy and to do research on topics that
illuminate issues of public policy and public policy analysis. She gave a brief history of
the school and noted that it is consistently ranked among the top five in the nation. She
descibed the school's curriculum and the careers itsgraduates pursue, as well as the
demographics and backgrounds of its students.
Dean Blank pointed out the school's traditional strengths in economic and
quantitative analysis of policy and social policy as well as more recent areas of
international policy and science policy. She noted that a joint, interdisciplinary Ph.D.
program was started in 2000 and it receives more than 120 applications for 6-8 available
slots each year. The school's newest program is an undergraduate policy studies degree,
with an initial size of 100 stdents.
Dean Blank discussed the school's faculty, which consists of regular academic
faculty as well as practitioners in the non-academic arena. She also noted that the
school has three major research centers. With respect to the budget, DeanBlank
reported that theschool has enjoyed recent substantial growth in tuition revenues, direct
and indirect researh funding, and gift and endowment income. Recruiting and
retaining faculty are the biggest challenges she faces as a dean. Finally, she noted that
the school will be moving into its own new building, Joan and Sanford Weill Hall, in
August 2006. She said that she does not anticipate the school aiming to greatly increase
its size after moving into the new facility.
A discussion followed during which Dean Blank responded to comments and
questionsfrom the Regents. Vice President May commented hat under Dean Blank's
leadership, fundraising in the school has grown dramatically, and the school was the
first to have met its Michigan Difference campaign goal. It was noted that the new
building is to be dedicated October 13, 2006, and that former president Gerald R. Ford
and his family expect to be in attendance.

254



March Meeting, 2006

Presentation: Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design ("LEED")
Associate Vice President Hank Baier gave a presentation describing the Leadership
in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Program, which is a program created by
the U.S. Green Building Council that promotes environmentally-responsible and
sustainable buildings. The program sets environmental standards for site development,
water and energy efficiencies, materialsand resources, and indoor environmental air
quality. Henoted that the LEED progam involves a score card system in which 69
points is the highest possible number of points. There are four levels of certification:
"Cetified" (26-32 points); "Silver" (33-38 points); "Gold" (39-51 points); and
"Platinum" (52 or more points).
Mr. Baier commented that the School of Natural Resources and Environment's
Dana Building had achieved the Gold level ofLEED certification, and that two current
projects, the Stephen R. Ross School of Business facility and C.S. Mott Children's and
Women's Hospital projects, are currently going through the certification process. He
said that all major University projects use the LEED score card as a type of internal
guideline, but the University does not seek certification formost projects.
Mr. Baer said that there are six LEED scoring categories: "Sustainable Sites" (14
possible points); "Water Efficiency" (5 possible points); "Energy and Atmosphere" (17
possible  points); "Materials  and  Resources"  (13  possible  points); "Indoor
Environmental Quality (15 possible points); and "Innovation and Design Process" (5
possible points), and described the requireents within each scoring category ad how
the University approaches each of these requirements.  He pointed out that the
University meets many of the requirements within a nuberof the categories as a
matter of course, but in some cases the requirements are either not appropriate or not
cost-effective or are otherwise impractical for theparticular building or site.
Mr. Baier comented that the LEED point system changes over time, in some
areas recognizing steps that the University already has taken, such as regionalstorm
water planning, as being wothy of garnering points. He also pointed out that the
University works with manufacturers of such environmentally friendly items as
waterless urinals in order to improve their efficacy and cost efficiency.
Mr. Baier noted that most University projects achieve about 20-28 points, so many
could be LEED certified if the University chose to pursue certification. He described
the University's priorities, which consist of life cycle versus construction costs, energy
savings, cost-effective  environmental performance, durability, competition  in
procurement to control costs, cost control versus cost to recycle construction materials,
occupant preferences versus imposed criteria, a priority on aesthetic reativity and
public spaces, and schedule versus time for commissioning.
Mr. Baier said that the University estimates that LEED certification increases
project costs by 1-10% depending on the complexity of the project and certification
level, and that the University is continuously monitoring the LEED program to note how
its irquirements change. It is also re-evaluating design guidelines, particularly in the
area of energy efficiency. He said that a number of efforts are underway to achieve
energy reduction in existing buildings, pointing out that the environmental impact and
cost savings of reducing energy consumption would dwarf any incremental increase that
could be achieved through the LEED certification process.

255



March Meeting, 2006

Executive Vice President Kelch thanked Mr. Baier and his staff for educating him
and his staff on these issues, and said he was pleased that the C.S. MottChildren's and
Women's Hospital Project would be seeking LEED certification.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee.           Regent Brandon reviewed the
topics the committee had covered durng its meeting the day before, noting that Regents
White and McGowan also serve onthat committee. The committee first reviewed the
A-133 external audit with University and HealthSyste        officials and representatives
from the University's external auditors, Pricewaterhouse Coopers. Glowing feedback
was received from    the independent auditors regarding the University's perfomnce
against industrybenchmarks.
The committee also reviewed the University's gap analysis and implementation
relative to Sarbanes-Oxley "best practices." This project is being led by Associate Vice
President Peggy Norgren with assistce from         Controller Cheryl Soperand Carol
Senneff, executive directorof University audits. The committeeheld a preliminary
discussion about the contract and fees for conducting the next external financial
statement audit, and it received a regular bimonthly internal audit report from Ms.
Senneff. A follow-up discussion was also held with Provost Ned Gramlich regarding
management of the endowment distributions over tine.
Regent Brandon reported that the committee had also met with Ms. Senneff and
Ms. Jeanette Baltimore, a University Audits staff member who is leading the audit
investigation of Michigan Radio. He said that the committee and the Board have been
very responsive to this issue, and made the following comments:
The Finance, Audit and Investment Committee is called the "Audit Committee"
for a reason. We ae engaged and very very interested in making sure the financial
controls and reporting that we have at the University are the best that they can be. One
ofthe things we looked for when this was first brought to our attention earlier this year
is the "tone at the top," which means, how does senior management react when a
problem is identified. I'm pleased to report that our senior management team was
cooperative, engaged, responsive, and was completely transparent in the way that they
approached the investigation of this issue and identifing exactly what happened. Most
importantly, they put a plan together to react to that and get this on a diferent
trajectory.
So the committee has been engaged with the president, with Carol, and with
Jeanette and all of the diferent areas of the University, including DPS  I can assure
you we are taking steps and implementing measures to make sure that the integrity of
the financial controls and adherence to policies at Michigan Media and throughout the
University are the best that they can be. In the earlier stages we called this "Phase I."
I think  S is to be complimented and recognized for the work that they did, and also
Internal Audit, including Carol Senneff and Jeanette Baltimore. They focused on the
specific area of wrongdoing, they dealt aggressively with the management failures and
the individuals involved in the unlawfid acts, and I am completely satisfied that we did
everything we could do in responding to that situation.
I also want the community to know that we have engaged in further audit
investigations throughout the entire enterprise of Michigan Media to make sure that we
have identified any weaknesses in controls. We have engaged the assistance of our
independent auditors to make sure that sufficient resources are available. We've

256



March Meeting, 2006

retained an outside cc isultant to make sure that we implement the kind of financial
controls needed to have the assurance and trust that adequate financial systems and
controlsare resia to aloiv ths enlei
crols aeresent1o allw this eprise to do its work and do it in a high quality
way.We 're very satisfied a l this point that we 'ye got this on track. There is still work
to be done, but I just want to report to the cc mumnih that you r audit cci ii iittee is all
over it and cares a lot about making sure that we get it right.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee. Regent Taylor reported
that he and committee members Deitch and Richner, along with Regents Newman and
Maynard, considered a number of agenda topics, including updates on searches. They
also reviewed guidelines and procedures for expense account reporting and would
continue to consider this topic.
The Regents then turned to the consent agenda.
Consent Ag enda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of February 17, 2006.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Hluman Resources and Affirmative Action (HRAA)
Report. He reported that the UMIHC Arbor Lakes Medical Center Information
Techniology Parallel Computing Center Project is completed, and this represents a
significant accomplishment in safety and security with respec to disaster recovery
backup for Hospitals IT operations, as well as the University's enterprise-wide
administrative systems.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.    Vice President Forrest submitted the Report of Projects
Established., March 1- 3 1,1 2006.
Un ivers~ity of Michigan Health System. There was no additional report.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper commented that nearly 400
students had participated in Alterative Spring Break programs, serving with local
community agencies across North Aminerica.  A campus-wide reflection on their
experences had been held earlier in the week. She also reported on the "Knit-wits"
organization, which distributes hand-knit items to community service organizations
throuhout the country.
University of Michig gan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas distributed a copy of the final
version of the UM-Flint Strategic Plan for 2005-2010. He noted that one of the plan's
prorities is to internationalize the campus, and to that end, he introduced several MBA
students1from1 P t1he Aiane  Business AcademyinT IndiaIwho areI enolled at theAUM-F'in t
and were pr~esent t:o observ the Retgents' Meeting., Chancell:orf MeIs~tasals announce~dd
students have  a signficantly higher degre  of satisfacio  wit their university
experience than the nlationalaverage for all universites
Chancellor Mest~as also: expressed support for the rIec;dommnain for an ~ honorar
degree to Ibe jpreseted tEo William S. Whte, notingthat under his leadership, theC.S.

257



March Meeting, 2006

Mott Foundation has been the consistent and generous benefactor of the Flint and Ann
Arbor campuses and of the Flint community.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. No report was submitted.
Michigan     Student Assembly       Report.     President Coleman      noted   that MSA
President Jesse Levine would be completing his ter         this month and that this would be
his last report to the Regents.      Mr. Levine reviewed the accomplishments of MSA
during his tenure, noting that "the assembly is in great shape." He said that upcoming
issues include campus safety, work with the Ann Arbor City Council about off-campus
housing, alumni outreach, and the cost of textbooks.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for February 2006. He reported that the $2 billion mark had recently been
achieved toward the $2.5 billion campaign goal. A mid-campaign celebration is
scheduled for October 2006. Vice President May also commented that the public phase
of the faculty and staff solicitation program      is being kcked-off this month, with $42
million already having been committed so far by faculty and staff during the "quiet"
phase.
Bonnie Ackley, Ann Arbor
for support in the Clements Library, for the Spring to Life Event Fund in the Medical School,
the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art, the Alumni Association, and the
University Musical Society.................................................... $21,300
Alliance for Lupus Research, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................... 62,500
Alro Steel Foundation, Jackson
for support in the Department of Athletics....................................... 15,400
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Life Sciences Institute, the Medical School, and the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts......................................................  221,086
American Chemical Society, Washington, D. C.
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 67,000
American College of Rheumatology, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School...................................... 25,000
American Dental Education Association, Washington, D. C.
for support in the School of Dentistry.............................................. 41,667
American Diabetes Association, Inc., Alexandria, Virginia
for research and other support in the Medical School....................................  386,016
American Federation for Aging Research, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................... 149,364
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research in the Medical School........................................... 121,188
American Lung Association, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................. 55,000
Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California
for support in the Medical School and the University Hospitals............................. 49,750
AronoffFoundation, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for research in the Medical School............................................... 25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for  esearchin the Medical School..................................  27,500
Arthritis Foundation Michigan Chapter, Southfield
for research in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 65,417
Arthritis National Research Foundation, Long Beach, California
for research in the Medical School................................................ 25,000
ASPA Pension Education Research Foundation, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................,......... 28,000
Auto Club Group, Dearborn
for support in the Transportation Research Institute....................................... 10,000
Avfuel Corporation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................... 17,800
Bawd Foundation, New York, New York
for the Derek Karl Branch Memorial Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 34,000

258



March Meeting, 2006

Leonard J. Baxt, Washington, D. C.
for the Building Fund in the Law  School.................................. 40,000
Bendix Commercial Vehicle Systems, LLC, Elyria, Ohio
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.........................................   15,000
Mandell L. Berman, Southfield
for the Sol Drachler Program in Jewish Communal Service in the School of Social Work............ 15,000
Brauer Investment Company, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society............................................... 15,000
Breast Cancer Research Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................. 499,734
Robert J. Buckler, Ann Arbor
1,044 shares of DTE Energy Company common stock
for the Robert and Victoria Buckler Atletic Scholarship in the Department of Athletics............. 44,678
Burroughs Wellcome Fund, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina
for research in the MedicaolSchool and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............. 462,108
Campbell Fund, Ann Arbor
for the David A. Bloom Endowed Professorship Fund in the Medical School................... 2,000,000
William C. Cassebaum, Ann Arbor
300 shares of Mellon Financial Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the School of Music............................................ 10,746
Cataphora, Inc., Redwood City, California
for support in the College of Engineering....................................  10,000
Neil Chesen, Malvem, Pennsylvania
for the Michigan Annual Fund............................................... 25,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center....................................... 10,000
Walter H. Clark, Jr., Hancock, New Hampshire
5,000 shares of Oopsware, Inc., common stock
for the New England Literature Program Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 39,650
President Mary Sue Coleman and Dr. Kenneth Coleman, Ann Arbor
680 units of DFA Emerging Markets Portfolio mutual funds
for the Mary Sue and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Undergraduate Fund, the Mary Sue and Kenneth
Coleman Endowed Fund in the Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, the Mary Sue
and Kenneth Coleman Endowed Life Sciences Fund, and the Leslie Kish International Fellows
Fund in the Institute for Social Research, and for the Building Fund in the Museum of Art, the
Trotter House, the University Musical Society, WFUM, and WUOM......................... 15,276
Comerica Bank Ann Arbor, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society........................................10,000
Alfred F. Conard, Kenneth Square, Pennsylvania
1,175 shares of Johnson Controls, Inc., common stock and a cash gift
for support in the Law School................................................  100,629
Convergys Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.......................................  15,000
Jane D. Cooch Estate
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.....................................  90,400
Peter G. Corriveau, Farmington
for research in the Medical School................................................. 25,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research and other support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts................................................ 176,130
David Revocable Trust
414 shares of various corporate common stock for the Rensis Likert Fund for
Research on Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research........................... 23,040
Delta Dental Fund, Lansing
for support in the School of Dentistry................................................23,700
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research in the Medical School..............................................  35,000
Dow Chemical Company, Midland
for support in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
for the University of Michigan-Dearborn, the University Musical Society, and WUOM............. 65,000
Ruth A. Duellman Estate
for the Duellman Graduate Student Research Fund and the Myles E. Duellman Memoria
Fund in the College of Pharmacy................................................ 540,000
(Gunter Dufey Trust of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for graduate student support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................... 18,000
Michelle Adams Duffett, Geneva, Illinois
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics................................... 10,000

259



March Meeting, 2006

Gayle E. Ellias, White Lake
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................ 10,000
Essex Healthcare Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia
for the Christobel Kotelawela Weerasinghe Endowed Fund in the Centeorfor the Education
of Women and for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art............................ 14,000
Fight for Sight, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................. 10,000
Max M. and Marjorie S. Fisher, Southfield
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.......................... 71,428
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program, William C. Richardson Fellowship for Public Policy... 15,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering, and for the University of Michigan-Dearborn
and the University Musical Society........................................ 310,000
Foundation for Digestive Health and Nutrition, Bethesda, Maryland
for research in the Medical School................................................ 16,250
Maxine and Stuart Frankel Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the University Musical Society...........................................20,000
Freescale Semiconductor, Inc., Austin, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 25,000
Melvin Friedland, New York, New York
for scholarships and other support in the Department of Athletics............................ 24,800
Gallup Organization, Lincoln, Nebraska
for the Gallup Europe Fellows Fund in Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research...... 50,000
Kerry A. Galvin, Houston, Texas
for support in the Law School........................................................ 20,000
Gelman Educational Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Charles and Rita Gelman Risk Science Professorship and other support in the School
of Public Health.........................................................         163,722
General Electric Company, East Cleveland, Ohio
for support in the Transportation Research Institute.......................................  15,000
General Motors Corporation, Warren
for research in the College of Engineering...................................... 560,000
Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation, San Francisco, California
for support in the School of Music............................................. 14,000
John K. Goodrich, Fort Lauderdale, Florida
for the John K. Goodrich Discretionary Library Fund in the University Library................... 10,500
Eugene and Emily Grant Foundation, New York, New York
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art and for the Thayer Graduate Fund in
the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................................. 60,000
Greater Kansas City Community Foundation and Affiliated Trusts, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Millennium Project Support Fund in the School of Information.......................... 42,500
John F. Greene & Company, Silverthorne, Colorado
1,000 shares of Burlington Resources, Inc., common stock
for the Henry N. Pollack Endowed Graduate Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts...............................................................  89,755
Kalvin M. Grove, Saint Petersburg, Florida
for scholarships in the Department ofAthletics..........................................  10,000
Michael and Mary Kay Hallman Fund of the Seattle Foundation, Seattle, Washington
for the Building Project Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................... 50,000
Jackson L. Hammitt, Rapid City, South Dakota
for support at the University of Michigan........................................  78,000
Velma E. Harness, Los Angeles, California
for the Ada Sue Hinshaw Fund in the School of Nursing................................. 10,000
Tarek S. Hassan, Ann Arbor
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.......................................... 14,000
HCA Foundation, Nashville, Tennessee
for the Harold and Vivian Shapiro Undergraduate Library Fund in the University Library......... 15,000
Heatcraft, Grenada, Mississippi
for research in the College of Engineering............................................45,000
Mitchell L. Henderson, Birmingham
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics............................................ 20,000
Mary V. Herlitz, Nantucket, Massachusetts
for the Herlitz Lupus Research Fund in the Medical School.................................. 10,000
Hewlett Packard Laboratories, Palo Alto, California
for electrical engineering and computer science support in the College of Engineering.............. 60,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment........,..................... 10,000

260



March Meeting, 2006

HSBC North America, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts.............................................  11,350
Intel Corporation, Santa Clara, California
for research in the College of Engineering..................................... 50,000
Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, Skillman, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts............................................ 60,310
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine and Public Health.................................. 490,835
Thomas C. Jones, Northport
9,000 shares of Cigna Corporation common stock
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business...................................1,108,620
Loretta B. Jones Estate
for scholarships in the School of Education............................................ 41,149
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................................  356,709
Kalliopeia Foundation, San Rafael, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 19,827
Kaydon, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................. 50,000
Keywell, LLC, Chicago, Illinois
for the Basketball Facility Fund in the Department of Athletics, and for the TMI Endowed
Scholarship in the College of Engineering, and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business............ 200,000
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Child and Family Life Fund........................................... 14,852
Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology, Daejeon, North Korea
for the KAIST Collaboration Fund in the College of Engineering................................ 36,500
Peter M. Labadie, Oak Park, Illinois
for the Peter M. Labadie and Suzanne L. Saxman Scholarship Fund in the College of Pharmacy...... 10,000
Harvey E. Lemmen, Grand Rapids
for the Harvey E. Lemmen Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the
Reed Dingman Professorship in Plastic Surgery in the Medical School.......................... 150,000
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School....................................... 100,000
David E. Liddle, Los Altos Hills, California
for the Computer Science and Engineering Building Fund in the College of Engineering........... 125,000
Eli Lilly & Company Foundation, Indianapolis, Indiana
for the Eli Lilly PhD Fellowship in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............... 50,000
Stanford Lipsey, Buffalo, New York
11 shares of Berkshire Hathaway common stock and a cashgift
for the Stanford Lipsey 2006 Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of
the Stanford Lipsey Student Publications Building Renovation Fund....................... 2,000,413
John S. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Institute for Social Research and the School of Natural Resources and
Environment..........................................................   326,000
Michael P. Manley, Flint
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund..........................10,000
Neil R. Mann Chapman and Cutler, Chicago, Illinois
660 shares of various corporate common stock for the Building Fund in the Law School........... 29,161
Manoogian Simone Foundation, New York, New York
for the Suny-Turkish/Armenian Workshop in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 25,000
March of Dimes Birth Defects Foundation, White Plains, New York
for research in the Life Sciences Institute and the Medical School.......................... 150,000
Irwin and Fran Martin Charitable Fund at the Schwab Fund for Charitable Giving,
San Francisco, California
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre........................................  10,000
Masco Corporation, Taylor
for the University Musical Society and for employee matching gifts............................. 33,100
Ralph L. McCormick, Palos Verdes Peninsula, California
for the Ralph L. McCormick Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of aerospace
engineering support in the College of Engineering...........................................  15,000
Melanoma Research Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Medical School............................................. 25,000
Miller Parking Company, Detroit
for the Indoor Training Facility Fund in the Department of Athletics............................. 10,000
Motorola, Inc., Schaumburg, Illinois
for support in the College of Engineering........................................  20,000
Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Flint
for employee matching gifts..................................................13,650

261



March Meeting, 2006

Muscular Dystrophy Association, Tucson, Arizona
for research  in  the M edical School........................................... 68,237
National City Bank, Ann Arbor
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art............................... 15,000
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research and other support in the Life Sciences Institute................................. 28,000
National Organization for Hearing Research, Narberth, Pennsylvania
for research in the Medical School.............................................. 40,000
William A. Newman, Ann Arbor
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund in the Department of Athletics....................... 20,000
Roger S. Newton, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business and the School of Music... 50,500
Northrop Grumman Foundation, Los Angeles, California
for employee matching gifts................................  15,250
Tim O'Day, Hinsdale, Illinois
for the Timothy O'Day Endowment Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business..............25,000
Casper Y. Offutt, Jr., Atherton, California
three shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock
for the Offutt Family Presidential Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts............................................................... 268,050
David and Lucille Packard Foundation, Los Altos, California
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................... 20,000
Robert T. and Bonnie P. Paine, Albuquerque, New Mexico
200 shares of Intuitive Surgical,, Inccommon stock
for the Paine Family/Herbert & Margaret Boter Trapp Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts........................................................... 20,335
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 82,136
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for scholarships and other support in the Division of Kinesiology, the Medical School,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................... 48,000
Arnold C. Pohs, Scottsdale, Arizona
for the Pohs Research Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................. 1,000,000
Prostate Cancer Foundation, Santa Monica, California
for research in the School of Dentistry...............................             100,000
Research to Prevent Blindness Endowment Fund, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School......................................... 50,000
Sally B. Roach, Ann Arbor
251 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Sally B. and Thomas A. Roach Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of
the Henderson House....................................................... 11,627
Joseph and Rose Rontal Foundation, Farmington Hills
for support in the Department of Athletics, for the Eugene and Ellen Rontal Family Resident
Education Fund in the Medical School, and for the an o  e  geed Ellen Rontal Pre-College
Mentoring Fund..........................................................21,600
Rosebud Foundation, Dexter
for support in the Medical School and the University Hospitals............................... 13,000
Richard A. and Hope S. Rosen Living Trust
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthurer Miller Theatre in the School of Music..................... 20,000
Andrew B. Rosenblatt, Coconut Grove, Florida
for the Jose ose Alvarez Research Professorship in Thoracic Surgery in the Medical School......... 10,000
Russell Sage Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 30,095
Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Sugar Land, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering........................................... 30,000
Robert G. Schuur, New York, New York
1,000 shares of Alliance Bancshares/CA common stock
for support in the Law School...................................................  15,250
Laura U. Schwartz, Sands Point, New York
for the Laura and Howard Schwartz Endowment Fund and the Anne Frank Fund by
Laura and Howard Schwartz in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.....................  10,000
Allen J. Sedman, Estero, Florida
10,400 shares of Pfizer, Inc., common stock
for the Allen J. Sedman Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the
Aileen and Allen Sedman Endowed Fund......................................... 265,928
Seidman Family Foundation, Albuquerque, New Mexico
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................. 30,000
Sepracor, Inc., Marlborough, Massachusetts
for the Michael S. Aldrich Sleep Medicine in Neurology Fund in the Medical School.............. 25,000

262



March Meeting, 2006

Sesi Investment, Inc.,p,`silanti
for the University Musical Society.....                                            12,500
Elwood andC'arol Srimon Philan1thropic Fund of theJewish Federation oflMetropolitan Detroit,
Bloorafield Hills
for the Allen S. Lichter Professorship in Radiation Oncology in the Medical School................ 10,000
Jean E. Simpson Estate
for research and other support in the StephenMR. Ross School of Business and the Medical School
and for the Building Fund in the Law School., in memory of the Honorable John Simpson......... 580,000
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for support at the University of Mi.126,000
Pamela M. Smith, Bedford, Massachusetts
170 shares of Exxon Mobil Corporation comtmon stock
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women................................... 10,437
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, D. C.
for support in the Medical School.................................................22,500
Steelcase, Inc., Grand Rapids
for the BuildingRFund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy..................... 50000
Jeffrey and Susan Stem Philanthropic Fund of the Je:wish Communal Fund, New York, New York
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,.................,............... 50,000
Tempting Tables, Muskegon
for research in  the Comprehen sive CancerC n r.......................... 55.,000
Anne NM1. Thomre Estate
fior research in the Miedical School............................................. 72,000
Charles V. Thornton, III, San Francisco, California
for the Building Fund and other support in the Law School............................12,500
Charles.J. Trick, Livonia
for support in the Department of Athletics and the Medical School....................... 105,600
Trotman Family Charitable Fund of the Vanguard Charitable Endowment Program,
Southeastern., Pennsylvania
for support in the Comprchensive Cancer Center, in memory of Alex Trotman........10,000
Universal Music Group, Santa Monica, Califoria
for the University Musical Society.................................................... 12,500
Viscogliosi Brothers, LLC, New York, New York"                                           )- 0
for the Viscogliosi Center at the University ofMichigan-Dearborn..........           5,00
Karen Wallace Johnson. Houston, Texas
for the Field Hockey Turf Project in the Department of Athletics..............,....,.....  20,000
Washington Mutual Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee nmatching gfs.....                                                    10,100..............
Joyce L. Watson, Aspen, Colorado
850 shares of Lfecore Biomedical, Intc., common stock
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art....................................10,064
Wege Foundation, Grand Rapids
for scholarships and other support in the School of Natural Resources and Environment
and the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy........................................ 42, 00 0
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for graduaite student support in thie College of Engineering............................... 130,000
Weyerhaeuser Company Foundation, Federal Way, Washington
for scholarships in the School of Natural Resources and Environment........................ 10,000
Joseph D. Williamison, II, Salinas, California
for the Building Project Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of B                   1;3.5 00,000
Ralph Wilson Medical Research Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for research in the Medical School............,............................ 200,000
Robert L. Wood, Roxbury, Connecticut
for the Academic Center in the Dep-artmentof Athletics.................................. 35,000

263



March Meeting, 2006

Additional gifts ranging from     $5,000
following donors:
ABN AMRO Norih America, Chicago, Illinois
Richard J. Allen, Ann Arbor
American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, New York,
New York
Anonymous Donor
APS & Associates, San Francisco, California
V. Elayne Arterbery, Rochester
Barton-Malow Company, Southfield
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
BorgWarner, Inc., Auburn Hills
Robert Bosch Corporation, South Bend, Indiana
Lawrence L. Bullen, Jackson
John W. Burau, Gaylord
Vincent C. Butkiewicz, Quebec, Canada
Cancer Research Institute, Inc., New York, New York
James E. Carey, Jr., Ann Arbor
Vivian L. Carpenter, Birmingham
Russell L. Cassar, Oceanside, New York
CFI Group, Ann Arbor
Chelsea Rhone Company, LLC, Ann Arbor
Clark Hill PLC, Detroit
Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc., Princeton, New Jersey
Com-Corp Industries, Cleveland, Ohio
Kristen Courtney, Okemos
Garvie T. Craw, Little Silver, New Jersey
Deloitte & Touche Consulting Group, Hermitage,
Tennessee
Detroit Area Pre-College Engineering, Detroit
William G. Earle, Key Biscayne, Florida
Eaton Charitable Fund, Cleveland, Ohio
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
Andrew V. Farbman, Franklin
Murray J. Feiwell, Carmel, Indiana
Flint Institute of Arts, Flint
W. Raymond C. Ford, Jacksonville, Florida
Donald J. Fraser, Lake Mary, Florida
Richard J. Gardner, Ann Arbor
Richard L. Geltman, New York, New York
General Dynamics Land Systems, Lima, Ohio
Benn Gilmore, Plymouth
John W. Glace, Femdale
Chevrolet Motor Division, Warren
Jack P. Gunter, Dallas, Texas
Craig P. Haley, Amherst, New Hampshire
Bruce T. Halle, Paradise Valley, Arizona
Ralph C. Heid, Jr., Plymouth
Helen Davis Charitable Lead Trust
Hewlett-Packard Company, Colorado Springs, Colorado

to $9,999 in value were received from the
Barry P. Hoffman, Plymouth
Daniel K. Hussey, Spring Lake
Issa Foundations, Ann Arbor
Bruce M. Jacob, West Bloomfield
Robert C. Johnson Estate
Kenneth Keene, Brookfield, Connecticut
Kitch, Drutchas, Wagner, Denardis & Valitutti, Detroit
Helen and Bernard KozloffFamily Foundation, Chicago,
Illinois
KPMG Foundation, Montvale, New Jersey
Alan F. Krauss, Raleigh, North Carolina
Sally LaMarra, Brighton
Anthony C. Lembke, Summit, New Jersey
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
Lumera Corporation, Bothwell, Washington
Lutheran Community Foundation, Minneapolis,
Minnesota
Chalmers J. Lyons Academy of Oral Surgery, Port Huron
Marathon Oil Company Foundation, Findlay, Ohio
Anne L. McGCrw, Walnut Creek, California
Arnold P. Morawa, Ann Arbor
Mosaic Foundation of R. & P. Heydon, Ann Arbor
Mosaic Foundation, McLean, Virginia
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint
Paul, Minnesota
National Organization for Rare Disorders, Danbury,
Connecticut
Nebraska Book Company, Inc., Lincoln, Nebraska
Robert D. Oliver, Ann Arbor
Pharmacia, Princeton, New Jersey
John M. Quitmeyer, Minneapolis, Minnesota
Gary R. Rice, Wilton, Connecticut
Aaron R. Ross, Longboat Key, Florida
Seremet Family Foundation, Potomac, Maryland
Thomas F. Slatkin, Beverly Hills, California
Susquehanna Foundation, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania
TCF National Bank, Ann Arbor
Time, Inc., New York, New York
Truck-Lite Company, Inc., Falconer, New York
Turner Construction Company, Dallas, Texas
Varnum   iddg,Ridding, Schmidt & Hwlett LLP, Grand
Rapids
Horn-Lay Wang, Canton
Robert D. Welchli, Grosse Pointe Farms
Welsh Living Trust
Kimberly L. Williamson, Saline
Georgetta A. Wolff, Huntington Beach, California

264



March Meeting, 2006

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Andrew B. Bigelow, Novi
one Steinway model A piano for the School of Music
Jerome Cushrman, Santa Monica, California
a large collection of posters, broadsides, printer's proofs, and other printed materials for the University
Library
Constance F. Harris, Beverly Hills, California
a collection of books, art, and ritual objects for the Jewish Heritage Collection in the University Library
Irwin T. Holtzman, Bloomfield Hills
a collection of books and other printed material by or about William Faulkner and Joseph Brodsky and printed
material of Israeli Judaica for the University Library
Jo Anne Horsley, Ann Arbor
an original Florence Nightingale private letter for the School of Nursing
Ping Lee, Birmingham
a large collection of Chinese ceramics for the Museum of Art
Daisy Lovain, Garden City
a large collection of postcard photographs for the Clements Library
Cynthia Motzenbecker, Royal Oak
a large collection of photographs for the Clements Library
Daniel A. Redstone, West Bloomfield
a large collection of architecture, art, and landscape slides for the University Library
Eliel G. Redstone, Corte Madera, California
a large collection of architecture, art, and landscape slides for the University Library
Ricardo, Inc., Belleville
three Mazda/Ford Escape prototype engines and one Mazda/Ford Escape Hybrid engine for the College of
Engineering
Sun Microsystems, Menlo Park, California
one Sun Microsystems Worksystem for the College of Engineering
David V. Tinder, Dearborn
a large collection of tintype and other miscellaneous format photographs for the Clements Library
Lisa Wesner, Birmingham
a sculpture by Joseph Wesner for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Art Collection
Personnel Actions and         Personnel Reports.         Provost Gramlich       submitted   a
number of personnel actions and reports.
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective March 17, 2006
Hussain, Maha H.A., M.D., Professor of Internal Medicine and Professor of Urology, Medical School
Zou, Weiping, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Surgery, Medical School
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Jiang, John Yebin, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School, March 17, 2006
Tzeng, Huey-Ming, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, March 1, 2006-May 31,
2011
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Taylor, Traki L., Associate Professor of Education with tenure, also appointed Associate Dean, UM-Flint
School of Education and Human Services, January 1, 2006-January 31, 2008

265



March Meeting, 2006

ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Correction to Name of Existing Collegiate Professorship
W. H. Auden Collegiate Professorship in English Languageanguage and Literature, corrected to W. H. Auden
Collegiate Professorship in the History and Theory of Sexuality, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts, March 1, 2006
Establishment of Endowed Professorships
Dr. Robert C. And Veronica Atkins Professorship in Metabolism, Medical School, March 17, 2006
David A. Bloom Professorship in Urology, Medical School, March 17, 2006
Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professorship in Transplantation Surgery, Medical School, March 17, 2006
Establishment of ollegiate Professorships
Reed O. Dingman Collegiate Professorship in Plastic Surgery, Medical School, March 17, 2006
William S. Smith Collegiate Professorship in Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical School, March 17, 2006
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective March 17, 2006 unless otherwise indicated
Appointments to Collegiate Professorships
Ni, Jun, Shien-Ming (Sam) Wu Collegiate Professor of Manufacturing and Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, April 1, 2006-March 31, 2011
Thompson, Levi T., Jr., Richard E. Balzhiser Collegiate Professor of Chemical Engineering and Professor
of Chemical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, April 1, 2006-March 31, 201 1
Appointments to Endowed Pro fessorships
Burant, Charles F., Dr. Robert C. and Veronica Atkins Professor of Metabolism, Medical School, April 1,
2006-March 31, 2011
Kaufman, Randal J., Warner-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professor in Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2006
Wolf, J. Stuart, Jr., David A. Bloom Professor of Urology, Medical School, April 1, 2006-March 3 1,
2011
Reappointment to a Named Professorship
Dutton, Jane E., William Russell Kelly Professor in Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, September 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
Slemrod, Joel B., Paul W. McCracken Professor of Business Economics, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, September 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
Other Transactions
Establishment of position of Assistant Chair, Education Department, UM-Flint School of Education and
Human Services, January 1, 2006
Sutcliffe, Kathleen, Associate Dean for Faculty and Development Research, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, July 1, 2006-June 30, 2009
Sanjian, Ara, Associate Professor of History, without tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, change in effective date of appointment from September 1, 2005 to January 1, 2006, and
correction of appointment period from university year to calendar year
Rea pointment of Past Recipients of Arthur F. Thurnau Professorships
Adams, William. J., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Alexander, William R., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Amrine, Frederick R., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Anderson, Elizabeth S., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Assanis, Dionissios N., College of Engineering
Bryant, Bunyan, School of Natural Resources and Environment
Ball, Deborah L., School of Education
Barber, James R., College of Engineering
Barnes, Burton V., School of Natural Resources and Environment
Beaver, Frank E., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Brown, Susan G., Division of Kinesiology
Brown, Morton, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Cameron, H. Don, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts

266



March Meeting, 2006

Canning, Kathleen M., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Castagnacci, Vincent E., School of Art and Design
Coffin, Edna A., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Coppola, Brian P., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Courant, Paul N., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Dapogny, James, School of Music
Douglas, Susan J., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ege, Seyhan N., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Fogler, H. Scott, College of Engineering
Ford, Richard I., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Francis, Anthony H., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Frisanco, A. Roberto, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gehring, William J., College of Literature, Science, and theArts
Gordon, Michael D., Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Gutierrez, Lorraine M., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Hanlon, Philip J., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Herseth, Freda A., School of Music
Hilton, Jmes L., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Howard, June M., College of Literature, Science, and theArts
Hume, Richard I., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Imperial, Michael J., Medical School
Johnson, Timothy R. B., Medical School
Jones, J. Wayne, College of Engineering
Kirsch, Jean P., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kivelson, Valerie A., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Krasny, Robert, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lieberthal, Kenneth G., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Liu, Yili, College of Engineering
Lopez, Donald S., Jr., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McDonald, Terrence J., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McKay, Timothy A., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Moje, Elizabeth B., School of Education
Monts, Lester P., School of Music
Moore, Scott A., Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Najafi, Khalil, College of Engineering
Olsen, Laura J., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Owen, Robert M., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Parmentier, Edward L., School of Music
Parsons, Michael G., College of Engineering
Perkins, Noel C., College of Engineering
Peterson, Christopher M., College of Literature, Science, and the A
Potter, David S., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Powell, Kenneth G., College of Engineering
Rabkin, Eric S., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Railton, Peter A., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Rasmussen, Paul G., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Reynolds, H. Robert, School of Music
Samson, Perry J., College of Engineering
Savage, Phillip E., College of Engineering
Scott, Rebecca J., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Siedel, George J., mI, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Sinta, Donald J., School of Music
Soloway, Elliot, College of Engineering
Speth, John D., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Takahara, Takeshi, School of Art and Design
Tinkle, Theresa L., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ulaby, Fawwaz T., College of Engineering
Van der Voo, Rob, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Vandermeer, John H., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Wagner, R. Brent, School of Music
Walker, James C. G., College of Engineering
Wineman, Alan S., College of Engineering
Whittier-Ferguson, John A., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Williams, Ralph G., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Winfil, Herbert G., College of Engineering

267



March Meeting, 2006

Yates, J. Frank, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Young, Alford A., Jr., College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective January 1-April 30, 2006 unless otherwise indicated
Bartz, Robert J., M.S.E., Intermittent Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
Dammeyer, Jennifer A., M.S.N., Lecturer I in Nursing, School of Nursing
Goldberg, Michael P., M.S., Lecturer I in Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services
Holoshitz, Malli S., Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Educational Studies, School of Education
Johnson, Broderick D., B.A., Lecturer I in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Klungle, Roger G., D.Sc., Lecturer I in Manufacturing Systems Engineering, UM-Dearborn College of
Engineering and Computer Science
Lorenz, William A., Ph.D., Lecturer I in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
McGrath, Michael R., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Business, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, February
1-August 31, 2006
Mess, Lillian, M.S.N., Lecturer I in Nursing, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and Studies
Rong, Liya, J.D., Intermittent Lecturer in Law, Law School
Tabor, Larry J., Ed.S., Intermittent Lecturer in Education, School of Education
Vancise, Amy, M.A., Lecturer I in Music, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRATED TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS'
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
EffectiveSeptember, 2005-May 31, 2006
Sedo, Stanley A., Lecturer IV in Economics, research leave, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY TH        LECTURERS' EMPLO        EE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Coetzee, Andries W., Lecturer I in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, resigned,
April 30, 2006
Pelletier, Beverly B., Lecturer I in French, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, resigned,
December 31, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Corrado, Stephanie P., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases,
Medical School, February 15-August 31, 2006
Dering, Andrew J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Anesthesiology, Medical School, January 30-August 31,
2006
Izberk-Bilgin, Elif, M.B.A., Instructor in Marketing, UM-Dearborn School of Management, September 1,
2006-April 30, 2009
Klausmeyer, John B., M.A., Lecturer I in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2006-April 30, 2006
Lattimore, Keri A., M.D., Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, July 1, 2006-August 31, 2007
Pennathur, Subramaniam, M.B.B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, February
8, 2006-February 7, 2013
Piskorowski, Wilhelm A., D.D.S., Clinical A   Profsssor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, February
1,2006-August 31, 2009
Umerori, Hisashi, M.D., Assistant Professor of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, February 1,
2006-January 31, 2007
Van Poznak, Catherine H., M.D., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, January 17,
2006-January 16, 2014

268



March Meeting, 2006

ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Adamic, Lada A., from Assistant Professor of Information, to Assistant Professor of Information, School
of Information, and Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2008
Al-Hawary, Mahmoud M., from Clinical Lecturer in Radiology to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Radiology, Medical School, January 1-September 30, 2006
Cronin, Paul P., from Clinical Lecturer in Radiology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology,
Medical School, January l-December 31, 2006
D'Silva, Nisha J., from Assistant Professor of Dentisry, to Assistant Prfessor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, and Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, January 1, 2006-December 31,
2009
Higgins, Peter D., from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor iof Internal
Medicine, Medical School, January 1-June 30, 2006
Locke, Amy B., from Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine to Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine,
Medical School, March 1-August 31,2006
Master-Hunter, Tarannum A., from Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine to Clinical Instructor in Family
Medicine, Medical School, January 1-August 31, 2006
McLean, Samuel A., from Clinical Lecturer in Emergency Medicine to Assistant Professor of Emergency
Medicine, Medical School, February 1-December 31, 2006
Minter, Rebecca M., from Assistant Professor of Surgery to Assistant Professor of Medical Education and
Assistant Professor of Surgery, November 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Morag, Yoav, from Clinical Lecturer in Radiology to Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical
School, February 1-August 31, 2006
Weinstein, Jamie S., from Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine to Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine,
Medical School, March 1-August 31, 2006
Yamashita, Junro, from Clinical Lecturer in Prosthodontics, to Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, March 1, 2006-August 31, 2007
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOLNTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Burt, Brian A., Professor Emeritus of Dental Public Health, School of Public Health, January 1-May 31,
2006
D'Amato, Constance J., Assistant Professor Emerita of Neurobiology, Medical School, January
1-December 31, 2006
Friedman, David I., Professor Emeritus of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, January
1-December 31, 2006
Kamopp, Bruce H., Associate Professor Emeritus of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering,
January 1-April 30, 2006
Kyes, Robert L., Professor Emeritus of German, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January
1-April 30, 2006
Pandit, Sujit K., Professor Emeritus of Anesthesiology, Medical School, January 1-December 31, 2006
Shevrin, Howard, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1-December 31, 2006
Thoene, Jess G., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
September 19, 2005-March 31, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Abney, Steven P., Associate Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure,
College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Information, without tenure, School of
Information, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2006
Anderson, Paul A., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of Afro-American
and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, September
1-December 31, 2005

269



March Meeting, 2006

Brace, Charles L., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Countryman, Matthew J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
American Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, extended sick leave,
November 7-December 31, 2005
Ford, Richard I., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2006
Franzese, Jennifer R., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, extended sick leave,
October 25, 2005-January 2, 2006, and child care leave, January 9-January 24, 2006
Goldenberg, Edie N., Professor of Political Science and Public Policy, with tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Hass,Kristin A., Assistant Professor of American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-Dcember 31, 2005
Howard, June M., Professor of English Language and Literature, American Culture, and Women's
Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May
31, 2006
Lee, James, Professor of Chinese History, with tenure, and Professor of Sociology, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Lotz, Amanda D., Assistant Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2006
Mickey, Robert W., Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
duty off campus, September 1-December 31, 2005
Newman, Meshach H., Clinical Professor of Surgery, Medical School, retirement furlough, September 1,
2005-June 30, 2007
Ruan, Yongbin, Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus, January 1-May 31, 2006
See, Maria S., Assistant Professor of American Culture and Assistant Professor of English Language and
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2006
Shatz, Marilyn J., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Linguistics, without tenure,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2006
Smith, Lones A., Professor of Economics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Suny, Ronald G., Charles Tilly Collegiate Professor of Social and Political History and Professor of
History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-May
31, 2006
Tardif, Twila Z., Associate Professor of Psychology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, duty off campus, January 15-February 15, 2006
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TOADMINISTRAT                ELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGUAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Hickman, Leaden, Assistant Professor of Health Sciences and Administration, UM-Flint School of Health
Professions and Studies, extended sick leave, September 23, 2005-February 5, 2006. Previously
reported as extended sick leave, September 23, 2005-March 22, 2006
Smith, Andrea L., Assistant Professor of Native American Studies, and Assistant Professor of Women's
Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, scholarly activity leave, September 1,
2005-May 31, 2006. Previously reported as duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2006
CANCELLATIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective September -December 31, 2005
Countryman, Matthew J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
American Studies, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave

270



March Meeting, 2006

TERMINATIONS
Effective on the datesindicated
Deceased
Sacks, Richard D., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences, without tenure, College of Engineering,
February 11, 2006
Carter, Paul D. Professor Emeritus of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education, January 27, 2006
McClendon, Edwin J., Professor Emeritus of Education, School of Education and Professor Emeritus of
Health Education, School of Public Health, January 21, 2006
Resigned
Chao, Mwe M., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, April 3,
2006
Dai, Yiran, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, February 28, 2006
Femino, John E., Clinical Assistant Professor of Surgery, Medical School, December 30, 2005
Johnson, Michael D., D. Maynard Phelps Collegiate Professor of Business Administration and Professor
of Marketing, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, May 31, 2006
Lee, Peter J., Clinical Assistant Professor of Anesthesiology, Medical School, December 31, 2005
Park, Jinyoung, Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management, May 31,2006
Razack, Nasser, Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School, February 10, 2006
Scelza, William M., Clinical Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
February 17, 2006
Tong, Henry C., Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, February
28, 2006
Retired
Goel, Subhash C., Professor of Civil Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2006
Term Completed
Gibson, Faison P., Assistant Professor of Computer Science and Information Systems, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, May 31, 2006
Herrero, Alberto A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Prosthodontics, School of Dentistry, January 31, 2006
Khan, Shawn I., Clinical Lecturer in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, January 31,
2006
Sengstock, David M., Clinical Lectrer in Internal Medicine, Medical School, September 30, 2005
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 2 retiring
faculty members.
Robert G. Kelly, M.S., senior associate libraian in the Stephen M. Ross School
of Business, retired from active faculty status on January 6, 2006.
A  life-long Michigan resident, Mr. Kelly received his BA. andM.A.L.S.
degrees from the University of Michigan in 1972 and 1973, respectively, and his M.S.
degree from   Eastern Michigan University in 1983. Mr. Kelly was assistant to the
director at the Ypsilanti District Library from   1983-85 and joined the University of
Michigan-Dearborn faculty as an assistant librarian in 1985. Mr. Kelly served as the
systems librarian and head of information services at the Mardigian Library, and he later
managed Dearborn's academic computing staff. In 2001, Mr. Kelly joined te Stephen
M. Ross School of Business as the electronic selection librarian at the Kresge Business
Administration Library.
By identifying and implementing information technologies to deliver library
content, Mr. Kelly fostered university-wide collaborations that permitted alternative uses
of resources anedled to substantially improved seices. His early work brought the
Dearborn campus on      e access to the Mirlyn Catalog and Wilson Indexes, which were
previously available only in Ann Arbor, and he helped all three campuses become integral

271



March Meeting, 2006

partners in the University Library systemn. After moving to Ann Arbor, Mr. Kelly worked
to consolidate and standardize the contracting process for Kresge electronic resources,
develop close relationships with vendors to negotiate low-cost access to high-quality
resources, and ensure access to high-quality Content for the entire University community.
An active participant in the University Library e-resource team, Mr. Kelly underwrote the
cost for purchasing journal content in the areas of business and economics and worked to
help the campuses share costs for university-wide databases. As chair of the Michigan
Library Association's (MLA) Library Technologies Division, Mr. Kelly brought
recognition to the Stephen M. Ross School of Business by supporting the MLA
Conference Internet Room and hosting an MLA workshop.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Robert G.
Kelly senior associate librarian emeritus.
Gerd 0. Till, M.D., professor of pathology in the Medical School, retired from
active faculty status on December 31, 2005.
Dr. Till attended the University of Frankfurt Medical School from 1.962-64 and
received his M.D. degree from the University of Freiburg in 1967. He completed an
intenship at University Hospitals in Freiburg (1967-69), a fellowship in immunology at
the Max-Planck-lnstitute of Immunobiology in Freiburg and the University of
Heidelberg (1969-72), and a postdoctoral research fellowship at the University of
Connecticut Health Center (1972-73). Dr. Till served on the faculty of the Institute for
Immunology and Surgery at the University of Heidelberg from 1973-80. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty as an associate professor in 1980 and was promoted to
professor in 1991.
Dr. Till's research activities focused on understanding mechanisms of lung
injury induced by toxic oxygen products of activated leukocytes and pathophysical
impact events related to thermal injury. He maintained an active research program
throughout his tenure and served as principal investigator and co-investigator on a
number of grants funded by the National Institutes of Health and the Department of
Defense. In addition to his research activities, Dr. Till taught dental school coursesmand
courses in the Department of Pathology's graduate program, served as course director
for pathology 580/630, and was a member of the Medical School Committee on Student
Biomedical Research Programs.
Dr. Till serves on the editorial board of International wImunopharmacnology and
lIlunobiology and is a reviewer for a number of journals including the American
Journal of Pathology, the Archives of Pathologyt and Laboratory Medicine, and the
Journal of Leukocyte Biology, He was a member on a number of Medical School
committees includingy the External Review  Committee for the Department of
Microbiology and Immunology (1982-83) and the External Review and Search
Commitee for the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology (1984-85 and 1987).
Te  Regents now saIlut this distinguish ed faculty  member for his d-edIAed
servce: by naming Gerd 0. Till professor emeritu ofpathology
MemorE-ials. Vice President Churcill subitted a memorial sta-temnat~ for Richard
D,. Sacks, prfessor of cheistr andprofessor ~of atmospheric, oceanc  an  space
sc~tiences.I
The Regents of the Univrsit of Mici~g~anacnowedgewit prfond sadness
the death of Ricard D, Sacks, professr of chemistr in the College of ~itertue,

27 2



March Meeting, 2006

Science, and the Arts, and professor of atmospheric, oceanic  d space sciences,
College of Engineering. Professor Sacks died on February 11, 2006, after a courageous
battle with cancer. He was 63.
Professor Sacks received his B.S. degree from the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign in 1965 and his Ph.D. deree in analytical chemistry from the
University of Wisconsin in 1969. He began his career as an assistant professor in
Arbor that sae year and was promoted to associate professor in 1974 ad professor in
1979. He served the chemistry department as associate chair for graduate studies from
1987-1992.
During his 37 years in the chemistry department, Professor Sacks was a truly
outstanding educator. He taught both undergraduate and graduate students the principles
of modem analytical chemistry and instrumentaion, and he was a drivingforce in
modernizing the analical chemistry curriculum. He developed completelynew courses
on chemical instrumentationat the undergaduate level and, at the graduate level, he
introduced courseson lectronic measurements and microcomputer control of analytical
instruments,as well as modem separations methods. He served as mentor to more than
35 Ph.D. students who have gone on to distinguished careers in academia, industry, and
government laboratories.
Professor Sacks was internationally recognized for his pioneering work on
analytical instrumentation. During the early part of his career, his research focused on
novel atomic emission spectroscopic methods, including direct solid-sample elemental
analysis. In the 1970s, he developed exploding thin film platforms for solids analysis
that combined simplicity of sample introduction with unprecedented low detection
limits. In the mid-1980s, he turned his attention to innovative approaches to high-speed
gas chromatographic separations of complex mixtures of volatile organic compounds.
His methodologies reduced measement times for complex mixures almost 100-fold
and attracted geat academic ad industrial inteest.his wor eventually led Professor
Sacks and several of his students to form a spin-off company, Chromatofast, Inc., that
commercialized instrumentation invented in Sacks' laboratory. In recent yearshe helped
lead efforts at the University to create wireless micro-analytical systems for
environmental, homeland security, and deep-space applications. During his career,
Professor Sacks and his coworkers published more than 150 research papers on these
topics and presented their findings at scientific conferences all over the world.
As we mourn the loss of our beloved colleague, we aso extend our heartfelt
condolences to his wife,    and his daughter, Jenny.
Degrees. President Coleman submitted a request for approval of honorary degrees
to be awarded to the following individuals: Christiane Amanpour, journalist, Doctor of
Humane Letters; Elinor Ostrom, political scientist, Doctor of Humane Letters;Amarya
Sen, Economist and Nobel laureate in economics, Doctor of Science; and William S.
White, president and CEO, Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, Doctor of Laws. She
noted that Ms. Amanpour would serve as the speaker for the undergraduate
commencement exercises, and that William S. White would give the commencement
address at the UM-Flint commencement exercises.
Regent Maynard commented that William White and his foundation have given so
much to the health and well-being to the Flint campus and Genessee County, and as a

273



March Meeting, 2006

member of the board of the Charles Stewart Mott Foundation, she was especially
pleased to have him receive this honor.
Regent Newman pointed out that the Board has always been consulted on the
honorary degree recommendations, despite a storyin the Michigan Daily suggesting that
the Board's role was somewhat irrelevant to the approving of these degrees. She stated
that this is not the case and the Board is always fully involved throughout the degree
recommendation process. It should not ever be assumed that te recommendations will
always be accepted.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by
Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turnedto consideration of the regular agenda.
Report of University Audits
Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the report of the Office of University
Audits for the period May 1, 2005 through September 30, 2005, prepared by Carol
Senneff, executive director of University Audits. He notedthat from this point forward,
these reports will be submitted as information items ever other month following their
review by the Finance, Audit and Investment Committee the previous month, as
opposed to the previous practice of every 6 months.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Fortress Investment Fund IV; Private Equity
European Partners III, L.P.; El Fund II, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the following co itments: up to $20 million fro the Long Term
Portfolio to Fortress Investment Fund IV; up to ~15 million from the Long Term Portfolio
to Private Equity European Partners, L.P.; and up to $30 million from the Long Term
Portfolio to El FundII, L.P.
Stanford Lipsey Student Publications Building Infrastructure Improvements
On a motionby          te, by e,  ond Regent Richner, the Regents  anously
approved theStanford Lipsey Student Publications Infrastructure Iprovements Project as
described and authoized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts
providing the bids are withthe approved budget.
Earl V. Moore Building Interior Renovations Phase I
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the Earl V. Moore Building Corridor Ceiling and Lighting Upgrades
Project as described, and authoized issuing the proect forbids and awardng constrction
contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
South Quadrangle Elevator Controller Replacement
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Richner, the Regents
unanimously approved the South Quadrangle Elevator Controll Replacement Project as
described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and awarding construction contracts
providing that bids are within the approved budget.

274



March Meeting, 2006

North Quad Residential and Academic Complex
Executive Vice President Slottow announced that the schematic desin is being
withdrawn from consideration at this time, based on ongoing consultation with the
president and major stakeholders in the project. Additional work will be done on the
schematic design before the project is brought forward for formal consideration.
Newberry Hall Kelsey Museum Addition and Renovation
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that additional funding has been raised
to expand the scope of this project from the originally approved 15,600 gross square feet
to 16,800 gross square feet and to increase te budget fom $8,200,000 to $9,200,000.
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the revised project scope and budget for the Newberry Hall
Kelsey Museum Addition and Renovation Project as requested.
Authorization to Name the Addition to Newberry Hall in Honor of William E.
Upjohn
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved naming the addition to Newberry Hall as the William E. Upjohn
Exhibit Hall.
Planned Uses of Income from the Julian A. Wolfson and the Marguerite Wolfson
Endowment Funds for the Fiscal Year 2006-2007
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved the planneduses of the income from the Julian A. Wolfson and
the Marguerite Wolfson Endowment Funds for fiscal year 2006-2007 as described in the
Regents Communication.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) Med Inn Sleep
Disorders Laboratory Relocation Renovations
Regent Taylor moved approval of relocation of the Sleep Disorders Laboratory
from Unit 8D of University Hospital to the Med Inn, allowing for the addition of up to
20 inpatient beds to University Hospital. Regent White seconded the motion.
Regent Maynard requested assrance that planners of this project are being
sensitive to the needs of patients and families. Executive Vice President Kelch
responded that patients and families are always  ven the highest priority and officials
believe that this transition will create the greatest good for the greatest number of
people.
The vote washen ten, d the motion wasapproved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers (UMHHC) University
Hospital Renovations for Blood Bank Laboratory Clean Room
On a motion by Regent Richner, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers
(UMHHC) University Hospital Renovations for Blood Bank Laboratory Clean Room
Project as described, authorized commissioning the architectural firm of Ann Arbor

275



March Meeting, 2006

Architects Collaborative for its design, ad authoized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 10 conflict of interest
items, each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following
items:
Amendment to License Agreement among the University of Michigan, Princeton
University, University of Southern California, and Universal Display Corporation
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement among the University
of Michigan ("University"), Princeton University, University of Southern California,
and Universal Display Corporation ("UDC") by which UDC will add the University to
its existing license with Princeton University and the University of Southern California.
Because Stephen R. Forrest, a University faculty member and executive officers, is also
partial owner of UDC, thisagreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and UDC.
2.   The amendment terms include adding the University as a party into the existing license
which gives UDC an exclusive license with the right to grant sublicenses to technology
developed under their research funding.  DC will pay a royalty on sales and
reimburse patent costs.  The University will retain ownership of the licensed
technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally. No use of
University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Forrest arise from his ownership interest in UDC. He
will waive any personal participation in the sharing of revenuereceived by the
University.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and OtoMedicine, Inc.
The Regents approved an option ageement with OtoMedicine to license the
following technology developed at the University of Michigan: UM        File No. 2213
("Prevention of Cisplati Induced Deafness"), UM      File No. 2215 ("Auditory Nerve
Protection and Re-Growth"); UM File No. 3341 ("Methods and Compositions for
Treatment of Noise-Induced He       g Loss"), andUM     File No. 3341.1 ("Antioxidant
Treatment to Prevent Auditory Nerve Degeneration"). Because Dr. Josef Miller, professor
of otolaryngology, is also a partial oner of OtoMedicine, Inc. ("OtoMedicine"), this
agreement fallsunder the State of Michigan Conflit of Interest Statute.The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requir ents:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and
OtoMedicine, Inc.
2.   Option terms include giving OtoMedicine an option for eighteen months to obtain an
exclusive license with the right to grant sublicenses in all fields. The University will
retain ownership of the optioned technology and may continue to further develop it and
use it internally. No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of
University employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard
disclaimers of warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended
by consent of the parties. Additional conflict of interest review will be done as

276



March Meeting, 2006

appropriate. The parties are also entering into a non-disclosure agreement under which
the University will share information with the company.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Miller arise from his ownership interest in OtoMedicine.
He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Fusion Therapeutics,
Inc.
The Regents approved an option agreement with Fusion Therapeutics, Inc. for
development of the following technology developed at the University: UM         File No.
2146 ("Expression Profile ofProstate Cancer") and UM      File No. 3199 ("Identification
of Recurrent Gene Fusions in Prostate Cancer").Because Dr. Arul Chinnaiyan is both a
University of Michigan faculty member and partial owner of Fusion Therapeutics, nc.,
this agre   ent falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.     The
following informaion is provided in compliance with statutoryrequirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and Fusion Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   Options terms include giving Fusion an option for twelve months to obtain an exclusive
license with the right to grant sublicenses in the field of use of therapeutics. The
University will retain ownership of the optioned technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it internally. No use of University services or facilities, nor
any assignment of University employees, is obligated or contemplated under the
agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees and indemnification apply, and the
contract may be amended by consent of the parties. Additional review by the Conflict
of Interest Board will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Chinnaiyan's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Fusion. He
has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Phrixus
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
The Regents approved an option agreeentwith Phrixus Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
("Phrixus") to commercialize the following technology developed at the University:
UM File No. 3015 ("Methods and Compositions for the Prevention of Cardiomyopathy
and Muscle Injury"). Because Joseph Metzger is both an employee of the University of
Michigan    nd a partial own     of Phrixus, this agreement falls under the Stateof
Michigan Conflict of Iterest Statute.      The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:.    Parties to the agreement are te Regents of the University of Michigan and Phrixus
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
2.   Option terms include giving Phrixus a one-year option to obtain an exclusive license.
Phrixus will pay for ongoing patent expenses, perform technical diligence, and provide
a business plan that describes Phrixus' intention and ability to develop and
commercialize the licensed technology. The University will retain ownership of the
optioned technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally. No
use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
Additional review by the Conflict of Interest Board will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Metzger's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Phrixus. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.

277



March Meeting, 2006

Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and Seattle Medical
Ventures
The Regents approved an option agreement with Seattle Medical Ventures for
commercializing the following technologies developed at the University of Michigan:
UM   File No. 1103 ("An Ultrasound Phased Array Noninvasive Cardiac Ablation
System"); UM File No. 1218 ("High Power Phased Array Therapy System"); UM File
No. 1329 ("Novel Methods for Ultrasound Surgery Using Cavitation: Microbubble
Applications for Lesion Localization and Threshold Stabilization"),  UM   File No.
1329pl ("Method and Assembly for Performing Ultrasound Surgery Using Cavitation",
UM   File No. 3207 ("Feedback Methods and Systems for Determining Therapy Beam
Positioning and Therapeutic Efficacy Before, During and After Ultrasound Cavitational
Therapy"), UM File No. 3294 ("Ultrasound Assisted Drug Delivery").
Because Charles Cain is both an employee of the University of Michigan and a
patial owner of Seattle Medical Ventures, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.  The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
I.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Seattle
Medical Ventures.
2.   License terms include giving Seattle Medical Ventures an option to obtain an exclusive
license with the right to grant sublicenses. Seattle Medical Ventures will pay an option
fee and reimburse patent costs. The University will retain ownership of the licensed
technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally. No use of
University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
Additional review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as
appropriate.
3.   Dr. Cain's pecuniary interests arise from his ownership interest in Seattle Medical
Ventures. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received
by the University.
Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and TRS, LLC
The Regents approved an option agreement with TRS, LLC to license the following
technologies from the University: UM File No. 2129 ("Design Methodology for Tissue
Engineering Scaffolds and Biomaterial Implants"); UM File No. 2142 ("Functionally Tailored
Composite Devices for Tissue Regeneration and Bioactive Factor Delivery'); UM File No.
1704  ("Rapid  Vascularization  of Bioengineered  Tissues"); UM  File No. 1704dl
("Mineralization and Biological Modification of Biomaterial Surfaces"); UM File No. 3361
("Engineered Scaffolds for Intervertebral Disc Repair and Regeneration"); UM File No. 3360
("Designed Degradable Cage Coated with Mineral Layers for Spine Interbody Fusion"); UM
File No. 2753 ("A New Approach for Designing Biodegradable / Bioresorbable Tissue
Augmentation / Reconstruction Devices"); UM File No. 2954 ("A Biodegradable Implant for
ntertransverse Process Fusion"); UM File No. 2915 ("Image-based design software"); UM
File No. 2955 ("Integrated Elastic and Permeability"); UM File No. 2130 ("Controlled
micro/macro porous 3D plastic polymer and ceramic/cement composite scaffold fabrication
and applications thereof'); UM File No. 2504 ("An Integrated Global Layout and ~Local
Microstructure Topology Optirization Approach for Spinal Cage Design and Fabrication");
UM   File No. 1853 ("CAD-M        and CT-based production of Tissues for Tissue

278



March Meeting, 2006

Engineering"); UM File No. 1360 ("Gas Foaming to Create Open Pore Structure");UM File
No. 1360pl ("Sustained Drug Delivery from Structural Matrices").
Because Drs. Scott Hollister, Frank LaMarca, Stephen Feinberg, and Chia-Ying
Lin are all employees of the University and are also partial owners of TRS, LLC
("TRS"), this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of hnterest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and TRS.
2.   Option terms include giving TRS a one-year option to an exclusive license with the
right to grant sublicenses. TRS will pay for ongoing patent expenses,perform
technical diligence, and provide a business plan that describes TRS' intention and
ability to develop and commercialize the licensed technology, which will include: 1) an
identified, committed, experienced and capable management team; 2) an appropriate
commercialization strategy; and 3) a capitalization plan indicating sufficient access to
capital to enable the commercialization plan to be executed. Terms of the subsequent
license agreement would include a royalty on sales and reimbursement of patent costs.
The University will retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to
further develop it and use it internally. No use of University services or facilities, nor
any assignment of University employees, is obligated or contemplated under the
agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees and indemnification apply, and the
contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Hollister, La Marca, Feinberg, and Lin arise from their
ownership interest in TRS. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing
of revenue received by the University.
License Agreement between the University of Michigan and MedSpoke LLC
The Regents approved an agreement with MedSpoke LLC             ("MedSpoke") for
licensing of the technology "Organ Transplantation Information System (OTIS)" (UM
File Nol 2867). Because Robert Merion and James Dean are both employees of the
University of Michigan and patial owners and directors of MedSpoke, this agreement
falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and MedSpoke
LLC.
2.   License terms include giving MedSpoke an exclusive license with the right to grant
sublicenses. MedSpoke will pay a royalty on sales. The University will retain
ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to further develop it and use it
internally. No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University
employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of
warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of
the parties. Additional review by the Conflict of Interest Board will be done as
appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interestsof Dr. Merion and Mr. Dean arise om their ownership interest
in MedSpoke. They have waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue
received by the University.
Materials Transfer Agreement between the University of Michigan and Avidimer
Therapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved a materials transfer agreement with Avidimer Therapeutics,
linc. ("Avidimer") involving provision of material purchased by the University to
Avidimer for evaluation and verification of previous findings. Avidimer, formerly
known as NanoCure Corporation, is a wholly owned subsidiary of NanoBiologics LLC.

279



March Meeting, 2006

Because Dr. Jaes Baker, a University faculty member, is alsoa partial owner of, chief
scientific officer for, and chairman of the board of directors for Avidimer, this
agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following
information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michiganand Avidimer Therapeutics.
2.   The terms of the proposed agreement conform to University policy. No transfer of
funds is involved. Avidimer will provide the University with the results of its
evaluation. No commercial use of the data by Avidimer is permitted. The agreement
includes a provision allowing extension and modification upon mutual agreement of
the parties. Additional review by the Conflict of Interest Board will be done as
appropriate. The project does not involve human subjects or research at the
University.
3.   Dr. Baker's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in Avidimer. No
transfer of funds is involved.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and EMAG
Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with EMAG Technologies, Inc.
For funding of a project in the College of Engineering. Because Kamal Sarabandi is
both a University of Michigan employee and a co-founder and co-owner of EMAG
Technologies, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.  The following information is provided in      compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and EMAG Technologies, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is eight months and the amount of funding support is $33,219.
3.   Dr. Sarabandi's pecuniary interest arises from his status as co-founder and co-owner of
EMAG Technologies, Inc. He will not be involved in the project to be funded by
EMAG Technologies, Inc.
Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
Ascenta Technologies
The Regents approved a license agreement with Ascenta Therapeutics to add the
following technoloies from the University to its existing license agreementUM File
No. 2328pl ("Small molecule antagonists of BCL-2 family"); UM       File No. 2549
("Composition and methodof use of compounds which inhibit PKC"); UM File No.
2682 ("Ellipticin and Ellipticinium derivatives as modulator of protein kinase B/AKT
and methods of use"); UM File No. 2784 ("Apogossypolone and the uses thereof"); UM
File No. 2808     ("Gossypol co-crystals and   their use"); UM     File No. 2891
("Conformationally constrained SMAC mimetics and the uses thereof"); UM File No.
3017 ("Small molecule ihibitors of MDM2 and the uses thereof"); UM File No. 3063
("Small molecule inhibitors of STAT3 and the uses thereof'); UM File No. 3147 ("New
classes of inhibitors of the P53-MDM2 interaction").
Drs. Marc Lippman, Shaomeng Wang, and Dajun Yang are University of Michigan
employees and also parial owners of Ascenta Therapeutics, Inc.; Drs. Lippman and
Wang are also directors   d members of the company's scientific advisory board and
Dr. Y     is     an employee and officer of the company. Therefore, this agreement

280



March Meeting, 2006

falls under the State of Michigan Conflict ofInterest Statute. The following information
is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Ascenta
Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   Amendment terms include adding the above-referenced technology files which were
developed under a sponsored research agreement with Ascenta. Current license terms
include giving Ascenta an exclusive license with the right to grant sublicenses.
Ascenta will pay a royalty on sales and reimburse patent costs. The University will
retain ownership of the licensed technology and may continue to further develop it and
use it internally. No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of
University employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard
disclaimers of warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended
by consent of the parties. Additional review by the Conflict of Interest Board will be
done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Drs. Wang, Lippman and Yang arise from their ownership
interest in Ascenta.
Name Change for the School of Music to the School of Music, Theatre & Dance
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved changing the name for the School of Music to the School of
Music, Teatre & Dance, effective July 1, 2006.
Establishment of a      New   Instructional Department at the        University  of
Michigan-Flint (Early Childhood Education Department)
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved establishment of the Early Childhood Education Department in
the School of Education and Human Services at the University of Michigan-Flint.
A ten-minute break followed.
Public Comments
The PublicComments session began at 11:05 a.m. The Regents heard comments
from the following individuals, on the topics indicated:  William Thomson, emeritus
faculty, David Skrbina, faculty, Helen Fox, Faculty, and Elizabeth Barlow, staff, all on
the topic of formation of a University divestment committee on Israel/Palestne;Brad
Stulberg, student and member of The Israel IDEA, against divestment from     Israel;
David Boyle, alumnus, on mounting public complaintsabout UM; JimMogensen,
citizen, on the University of Michigan Health System; Elzora Holland, staff, and
Chauncey Williams, staff on a grievance regading teaching without compensation
within the Comprehensive Studies Program; and Audrey Jackson, alumna, on financial
aid policies.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:55 a.m. The
next meeting is scheduled for April 21, 2006.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretay of the University

281



March Meeting, 2006

282



APRIL MEETING, 2006

The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
April 21, 2006
The Regents convened at 9:15 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Taylor, and White. Also present
were Vice President and Secretary Churchill, Vice President Forrest, Interim Provost
Gramlich, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President
Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President
Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, and Vice President Wilbanks. Regent
Brandon was absent; Regents Deitch and Richner participated via telephone.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order. She announced that the 75th
anniversary program of the Hopwood Awards would be taking place that afternoon,
noting that this is one of the country's most well-known awards for writing, with more
than 3,000 awards having been presented since the founding of the program.
President Coleman also commented that commencement would take place on
April 29, and that journalist Christiane Amanpour would be receiving an honorary
degree and addressing the graduates.
Presentation: Stephen M. Ross School of Business
President Coleman introduced Robert Dolan, dean of the Stephen M. Ross School
of Business.
Dean Dolan gave a presentation describing how the Ross School is positioned
among the other top business schools and the strategy the school has adopted to
differentiate itself from the other schools. It is the only school among the top twelve that
offers full-time, part-time, and executive MBA programs, along with a BBA program
and an executive education program.  The school has developed a program of
"broad-based intellectual capital with impact" (a large research operation), and has
incorporated this research into the classroom by curriculum innovation and by
capitalizing  on  "co-creation  opportunities."  The  latter  includes  offering
cross-disciplinary programs in cooperation with other schools and colleges at the
University and allowing students to customize their program according to their
individual needs, referred to as "action-based learning."
Dean Dolan reported that the Ross School consistently ranks highly in research
performance. He described two things that differentiate the school from others. One is
the Michigan Leadership Program, which engages students before they start classes and
helps them develop a customized, individual pathway that will help them acquire the
leadership abilities they are seeking. Second, all first year MBA students are involved
in Multidisciplinary Action Projects ("MAP"), which are 8-week projects involving
companies all over the world. Thus, leadership capabilities are developed in three
ways: through the MAP projects, through elective courses, and through non-credit

283



April Meeting, 2006

activities. MAP and action-based learning also allow students to develop the full range
of managerial skills in a way that is not possible using the typical case-study model. He
explained that currently, students are involved with 85 projects, 59% of which are
international.  These include corporate and entrepreneurial venues, as well as
non-profits, including an innovative project involving the Clinton HIV/AIDS
Foundation in Rwanda.
In addition to action-based learning projects which send students out into the "real
world," the school also creates the real world on campus, through such entities as the
Tozzi Electronic Business and Finance Center. Dean Dolan noted that the Ross
School's emphasis on action-based learning and practical experience led to its being
named the top business school by the Wall Street Journal in 2004. He reported that
yield numbers have improved significantly over the past ten years, as has the proportion
of women.
Dean Dolan described some of the features of the BBA program, including the
"Mastery Project" which helps at-risk students improve their competitiveness for
admission to the program. He also discussed some of the programmatic support the
school has received and described some of the challenges created by developing,
recruiting, and retaining faculty. He noted that the school has created programs in such
countries as Korea and India to provide additional opportunities for faculty and
students.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent White reported that the
committee, including herself and Regents Brandon and McGowan, executive Vice
President Slottow, and other staff, had met the day before and considered three topics:
the Athletic Department five-year strategic operating and capital plan; the FY07
General Fund Budget; and an update on the University of Michigan Press.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee. Regent Taylor reported
that the committee had received an update on current dean searches; a status report on
the LEO unit clarification petition; and briefings by Associate Vice President Laurita
Thomas on HRAA recruitment and retention efforts as well as the HRAA organization
and strategic vision. He noted that the committee will be studying key performance
indicators within HRAA at future sessions.
The Regents then turned to the consent agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of March 17, 2006.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, the Regents' Report on Noncompetitive Purchases over $5,000
from Single Sources, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action (HRAA)
Report. He reported that three of the child care centers on campus have been
consolidated and are under the administrative supervision of Associate Vice President
Laurita Thomas. The goal of the consolidation is to provide higher quality and
increased infant and toddler child care capacity and improved physical facilities. He

284



April Meeting, 2006

noted that enrollment has been expanded and other improvements have been made as a
result of this consolidation, and that consideration is now being given to renovation of
the facilities.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report. Vice President Forrest submitted the Report of Projects
Established, March 1- 31, 2006.
University of Michigan Health System. Executive Vice President Kelch called
attention to a collaboration between M-Care and the Michigan Healthy Community
through which the Healthwise information service provided to members of M-Care is
now being made available to all University of Michigan faculty and staff.
Division of Student Affairs. Vice President Harper commented about the
exceptional role students play in helping the institution reach its goals. She thanked
Jesse Levine, outgoing president of MSA, for his work during the past year on a variety
of issues. She also acknowledged incoming MSA president Nicole Stallings.
Vice President Harper also called attention to the request for approval of the
2005-06 University Housing Residence Hall and Northwood Community Apartments
rates. The residence hall recommendation is for an average increase of 5.9% for room
and board rates, which includes increases of 1.7% for utility costs; 2.2% for general
expenses, including employee salaries and benefits; and 2% for the Residential Life
Initiative, targeted to residence hall renewal. The recommended rate increase for
Northwood Community Apartments (formerly Family Housing) is 3.5%, targeted at
covering increased utility costs.
University of Michigan-Dearborn. Chancellor Little reported that next month he
will be bringing forward a recommendation for the appointment of Susan Martin as
provost of the Dearborn Campus. She is currently executive associate vice president for
academic affairs at Grand Valley State University.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas reported that the Flint Campus
commencement exercises will be held May 7. William S. White, chairman and CEO of
the C.S. Mott Foundation and an honorary degree recipient, will be the commencement
speaker.
Michigan Student Assembly Report.      President Coleman thanked MSA
President Jesse Levine for his leadership during the past year. Mr. Levine introduced
incoming president Nicole Stallings. Ms. Stallings outlined her plans for the coming
year. These include strengthening MSA's connection to the student body in order to
strengthen MSA's impact on campus. Other goals include continuing to work on
engaging MSA alumni, and to achieve tangible improvements in campus safety and
security. She noted that plans are being developed to deal with anticipated tensions
next fall with respect to the Michigan Civil Rights Initiative ballot proposal.
Voluntary Support. Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for March 2006. He reported that since the last meeting, the campaign had
reached $2.1 billion toward the $2.5 billion campaign goal. He also reported on
progress in the faculty and staff campaign, noting that an event had been held for the
550 faculty and staff who had each contributed at least $10,000.

285



April Meeting, 2006

ACEA Biosciences, Inc., San Diego, California
for research in the Medical School.................................................... $10,00
Ann Arbor Area Community Foundation, Ann Arbor
for support in the Medical School and the University Hospitals............................... 20,000
Alliance for Lupus Research, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 62,500
American Cancer Society, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Life Sciences Institute, the Medical School,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................................ 98,533
American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund, Washington, D. C.
for chemistry support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................... 107,500
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research and other support in the Medical School..................................... 42,708
American Lung Association of Michigan, Lansing
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 110,00
American Society of Hematology, Inc., Chapel Hill, North Carolina
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 12,500
Americana Foundation, Inc., Novi
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 16,000
Anonymous, Ann Arbor
502 shares of First Mercury Holdings, Inc., stock
for support of the University of Michigan.............................................. 3,000,000
Anonymous Donor
4,330 shares of various corporate common stock
for a Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund and other support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn. 180,715
Anonymous Donor
for scholarships in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................... 25,000
Anonymous Donor
147 shares of Cemex SA de SV common stock
for the Director's Strategic Opportunities Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts..... 10,047
Rudi Ansbacher, Ann Arbor
for the Rudi Ansbacher Scholarship in the Medical School.................................. 41,209
ASPA Pension Education Research Foundation, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................28,000
Avery Dennison, Mount Prospect, Illinois
for support in the Transportation Research Institute...................................... 15,000
Donald C. Baker, Beaverton
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................................... 30,000
Kathleen V. Benton, Ann Arbor
for the University Musical Society................................................... 10,120
David W. Bernhaut, Watchung, New Jersey
for the Building Project Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................... 14,286
Pierre E. Berry, Baltimore, Maryland
for the Pierre E. Berry Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Museum
of Anthropology, in memory of Margaret Guta........................................... 27,000
George H. Boyce, Kingsford
500 shares of MeadWestvaco Corporation common stock
for the Dr. George H. Boyce Donor Pooled Income Fund for the ultimate benefit
of the University of Michigan......................................................... 13,968
William K. Brehm, McLean, Virginia
for the William and Delores Brehm Diabetes Center Endowment Fund and the
Brehm Construction and Facilities Fund in the Medical School............................. 1,00,000
Marcia L. Carris, Denver, Colorado
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Jan Carter Living Trust
400 shares of Independent Bank Corporation common stock
for support in the Law School......................................................... 11,116
Lawrence H. Chaffee, Ann Arbor
427 shares of Domino's Pizza, Inc., common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics......................................... 10,709
Samuel L. Chappell, Burke, Virginia
for the Walgreen Drama Center-Arthur Miller Theatre in the School of Music and
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 10,100
ChevronTexaco, Concord, California
for scholarships in the College of Engineering.......................................... 14,000
Chicago Community Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................  20,000
Children's Leukemia Foundation of Michigan, Southfield
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center........................................ 12,500

286



April Meeting, 2006

Helen E. Conger Trust
for support in the Clements Library and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................. 150,000
John E. Conlin, San Francisco, California
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 10,000
Trudy Harrison Crandall, Ann Arbor
for the Executive Director's Innovation Fund in the Medical School............................ 10,000
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, Bethesda, Maryland
for research and other support in the Medical School and the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts.................................................................. 158,237
Loren S. Daniels Trust
for the Loren Daniels Dental Student Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry................ 10,000
David Revocable Trust
500 shares of Hewlett-Packard Company common stock
for the Rensis Likert Fund for Research on Survey Methodology in the Institute for Social Research... 16,655
Decoma International, Inc., Ontario, Canada
for support in the Transportation Research Institute...................................... 22,500
John Deere Foundation, Moline, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering, the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, and the School of Information........................................ 77,00
Dekers Blue Line Club, Ann Arbor
for ice hockey support in the Department of Athletics..................................... 13,000
Dentsply, York, Pennsylvania
for the Hom-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry.............. 15,000
Dermatology Foundation, Evanston, Illinois
for research and other support in the Medical School....................................... 21,000
Clyne W. Durst, Jr., Adrian
for the Clyne and Joan Durst, Jr. Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit of the Law School,
the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...... 50,000
John R. Edman, Rancho Santa Fe, California
for the Class of 1950 Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....... 10,000
Ercius Family Trust
for the Julian T. Hoff, M.D. Professorship in Neurosurgery in the Medical School................ 10,000
Paul H. Eschmeyer Estate
for the M-PACT Endowment Fund.................................................... 100,000
Esperance Family Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Esperance Family Foundation Integrative Health Fund in the Medical School.............. 108,300
David S. Evans, Wilmette, Illinois
2,628 shares of various corporate common stock
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund and
for the Sidney Fine Excellence in Teaching Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts......................................................... 116,302
Flora Family Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for the Suny-Turkish/Armenian Workshop in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 24,000
Elena A. Ford, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 13,820
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for research in the Law School, the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, and the
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................................. 414,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for research in the College of Engineering............................................. 30,000
John M. Forelle, Millerton, New York
for the Building Fund in the Law School............................................... 12,500
Richard H. Freiburger, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................10,000
Gelman Educational Foundation, Ann Arbor
for research in the School of Public Health and for the Mardigian Library,
the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................................................... 110,000
General Motors Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts......................................... 29,604
Google, Inc., Mountain View, California
for support in the College of Engineering........................................... 250,000
Hall, Render, Killian, Heath & Lyman, P.S.C., Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the School of Public Health.............................................. 25,000
Richard L. and Mary S. Halpert Fund of the Kalamazoo Community Foundation, Kalamazoo
for the James C. Stanley Professorship in Vascular Surgery and other support in the Medical School... 11,000
John A. Hartford Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Medical School.................................................. 95,263
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for research in the School of Education............................................ 66,249

287



April Meeting, 2006

Hitachi, Brisbane, California
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 65,000
William F. Hosford, Jr., Ann Arbor
1,128 shares of various corporate common stock
for the William F. Hosford Scholarship Fund in the College of Engineering...................... 28,491
Paul L. Hudson, Sun City West, Arizona
for the Paul L. and Gloria M. Hudson Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit
of the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......................................15,000
Kathleen L. Hussey Trust
for the Biological Station.............................................................  20,865
IMRA America, Inc., Ann Arbor
for research in the College of Engineering...............................................  15,000
Insight Insurance Services, Inc., Geneva, Illinois
for employee matching gifts....................................................... 10,000
James R. Irwin, Ann Arbor
for support in the School of Music.................................................. 25,000
J. W. and Ida M. Jameson Foundation, Sierra Madre, California
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................... 40,000
Jagdish C. Janveja, Ann Arbor
200 shares of Titanium Metals Corporation common stock
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.................................. 13,679
Marwan Jaroudi, Los Angeles, California
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 25,000
Roger C. Johnson, Washington, D. C.
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics........................................... 10,000
Johnson Controls Automotive Systems Group, Plymouth
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane, the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 23,700
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Schools of Medicine, Public Health, and the Gerald R. Ford School
of Public Policy................................................................ 334,336
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for the Kellogg Scholars in Health Disparities Fund in the Institute for Social Research............ 12,500
John A. Klein, Easton, Connecticut
7,500 shares of People's Bank common stock
for the John and Carla Klein Family Research Professorship in the Medical School.............. 253,013
Krupman Family Foundation, Inc., Purchase, New York
for the Jackson Lewis Fund in the Law School............................................ 10,000
Lannquist Hamilton Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................................. 15,000
Edward Law, San Diego, California
A Motorola Corporation bond for the Edward and Helen E. Law Charitable Gift Annuity
for the ultimate benefit of the College of Engineering..................................... 53,787
Lear Corporation, Southfield
for scholarships and other support for the Department of Athletics............................. 53,540
Allen S. Lichter, Ann Arbor
for the Lichter Family Fund in the Medical School....................................... 116,228
Lockheed Martin Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland
for employee matching gifts........................................................ 12,075
Raymond Loh Kai Hoo, Singapore
for the Hom-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry.............. 10,000
J. Mark and Linda C. Lozier Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Loganberry Erb Institute Scholarship Fund and other support in the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business.............................................................. 10,000
Benard L. Maas Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Child and Family Life Fund, and for the Benard L. Maas Fund, and other support in
the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital, and for the Eva Grace (Miller) Welch Pediatric
Fellowship Fund, and other support in the Medical School................................. 31,000
Marsal Family Foundation, New York, New York
for the Marsal Family Foundation Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics................ 16,000
Frederick C. Matthaei, Jr., Birmingham
277 shares of Amgen, Inc., common stock
for support in the Department of Athletics........................................... 20,143
Robert R. McCormick Tribune Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business................................... 15,000
J. Terry McElroy, Northville
for the Czarnecki Educational Fund and other support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn....... 20,000
Medtronic, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota
for scholarships in the College of Engineering......................................... 10,000

288



April Meeting, 2006

Michigan Association of Endodontists, Southfield
for the Dr. Philip W. Cohen Memorial Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry............... 12,433
Mid West Financial Credit Union, Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Construction Project Fund and for other support
in the University Hospitals............................................................ 11,050
Ravi Mohan, San Francisco, California
for the Building Project Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................... 16,667
Motorola Foundation, Schaumburg, Illinois
for scholarships and other support in the College of Engineering............................ 80,000
Laura Ellen and Robert Muglia Family Foundation Merrill Lynch Trust, Houston, Texas
for the Laura Ellen and Robert Muglia Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....... 62,500
Mary C. Murphy Revocable Trust
for the Percy and Mary Murphy Endowed Children's Research Fund in the Medical School......... 20,000
Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School...................................................... 43,335
Edward M. Nagel Foundation, San Francisco, California
for the Edward M. Nagel Scholarship Fund in the Law School............................... 45,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia and Depression, Great Neck, New York
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 30,000
National Instruments, Austin, Texas
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 19,740
Nature Conservancy, Inc., Lansing
for WUOM..................................................................... 20,000
William J. Newell, Berkeley, California
for support inthe Law  School........................................................... 10,000
Gary and Sally Nickele Family Fund of the Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for the Building Fund in the Law School and for support in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts.....................................................................  15,000
Northwestern Mutual Life Foundation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 12,255
Erol Oktay, Columbia, Maryland
320 shares of various corporate common stock
for Camp Michigania................................................................  15,921
Aline Underhill Orten Foundation, Inc., Eastpointe
for scholarships in the Center for the Education of Women................................. 15,000
Kiran C. Patel, Tampa, Florida
for the Chhotubhai and Savitaben Patel Fellowship Fund in the College of Pharmacy.............. 33,000
Dinesh and Kalpana Patel Foundation, Salt Lake City, Utah
for the Chhotubhai and Savitaben Patel Fellowship Fund in the College of Pharmacy.............. 67,000
Rebecca S. Peapples, Ann Arbor
for the Rebecca S. Peapples Outside Managed Charitable Remainder Trust for the ultimate
benefit of the Comprehensive Cancer Center and the Stephen M. Ross School of Business......... 936,290
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts........................................................ 13,400
Pfizer, Inc., New York, New York
for the Spring to Life Event Fund in the Comprehensive Cancer Center......................... 10,000
Philips Research, Briarcliff Manor, New York
for research in the College of Engineering............................................... 50,000
Arnold C. Pohs, Castle Rock, Colorado
for the Baseball Stadium Construction Fund and scholarships in the Department of Athletics........ 250,000
Presser Foundation, Haverford, Pennsylvania
for the Presser Musical Scholarship Fund in the School of Music............................. 11,700
PricewaterhouseCoopers Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts........................................................ 27,795
Priority Healthcare Corporation, Lake Mary, Florida
for support in the University Hospitals.................................................. 10,000
William Putich, Cleveland, Ohio
5,000 shares of Arizona Star Corporation common stock
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics......................................... 54,875
Ravitz Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Ravitz Foundation Endowed Fund in the Medical School........................... 875,000
Respironics Sleep and Respiratory Research Foundation, Murrysville, Pennsylvania
for the Michael S. Aldrich Sleep Medicine in Neurology Fund in the Medical School.............. 100,000
Sally B. Roach, Ann Arbor
250 shares of Murphy Oil common stock and a cash gift
for the Sally and Thomas Roach Charitable Gift Annuity, for the ultimate benefit of the
Henderson House Endowment Fund, and for the Joachim "Kim" Bruhn Scholarship for
International Study at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................... 12,594

289



April Meeting, 2006

Roberts Family Foundation, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the James E. Harris Endowed Collegiate Professorship and the Roberts Family Foundation
Scholarship Fund in the School of Dentistry and for the Roberts Family Scholarship Fund
in the Medical School......................................................... 600,000
Joseph and Rose Rontal Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Michael Rontal Family Anatomy Course in the Medical School....................... 20,000
Thomas A. Rosin Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Troy
for the Cardiovascular Center Building Fund............................................. 25,000
Jonathan Rye, Bloomfield Hills
for the Jonathan and Lisa Rye Scleroderma Research Fund in the Medical School............... 125,000
SBC Foundation, San Antonio, Texas
for employee matching gifts.......................................................... 12,333
Ching ju Wang Sheu, Bethesda, Maryland
for the Ching ju Wang Sheu Graduate Student Fellowship in the College of Pharmacy............. 50,000
Roberta W. Siegel, Weston, Massachusetts
245 shares of Abbott Laboratories common stock
for research in the Medical School..................................................... 10,160
Spinal Cord Research Foundation, Washington, D. C.
for research in the Division of Kinesiology.............................................. 41,250
Mary V. Stevenson Estate
for the M. Virginia Stevenson Scholarship Funds in the School of Music........................ 65,000
Shirley L. Straffon, Shaker Heights, Ohio
for the Ralph A. Straffon, M.D. Charitable Remainder Trust for the ultimate benefit
of the Reed Nesbit Professorship in Urology in the Medical School............................ 75,000
Stryker Instruments, Kalamazoo
for the Homer H. Stryker Orthopaedic Lecture Fund in the Medical School...................... 12,900
Lewis and Judy Tann Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for the Alumni Association...........................................................  10,000
A. Alfred Taubman Revocable Trust
for research in the Medical School.................................................... 200,000
Ben N. Teitel Charitable Trust
for the Drachler Educational Travel Fund in the School of Social Work......................... 10,000
John Templeton Foundation, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania
for research in the Institute for Social Research............................................ 60,840
Leonard E. Thomas, Swartz Creek
for support at the University of Michigan-Flint......................................... 10,000
B. Gregory Thompson, Jr., Ann Arbor
for the Nicholas Leoni Endowed Research Fund in the Division of Kinesiology.................. 10,000
Union Pacific Foundation, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Union Pacific MBA Scholarship Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.......... 10,000
United Therapeutics Corporation, Silver Spring, Maryland
for the  Cardiovascular Center..........................................................  50,000
Varsity Ford, Inc., Ann Arbor
for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic Benefit Fund............................. 12,000
Vital Bridges NFP, Inc., Chicago, Illinois
for the MBA Domestic Corps Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................. 15,000
Gary T. Walther, Winnetka, Illinois
550 shares of Walgreen Company common stock
for the Building Project Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business....................... 23,878
Hom-Lay Wang, Canton
for the Hom-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry.............. 26,000
Irving Weinstein Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the School of Natural Resources and Environment............................. 25,000
Melba Winer Living Trust
200 shares of Air Products & Chemicals, Inc., common stock
for the Sidney J. Winer Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 13,184
Elizabeth Wright Charitable Remainder Unitrust
for the Elizabeth Benson Wright Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 10,000
Zatkoff Family Foundation, Farmington Hills
for the Zatkoff Family Football Scholarship Fund in the Department of Athletics.................. 30,000

290



April Meeting, 2006

Additional gifts ranging from $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from the
following donors:

Bonnie Ackley, Ann Arbor
Donald J. Allard, Coto De Caza, California
Allergy & Immunology Associates of Ann Arbor, Ann
Arbor
American Association of Orthodontists Foundation, Saint
Louis, Missouri
Amgen Foundation, Thousand Oaks, California
Anonymous Donor
Ardis/Lueder Northern Lower Michigan Endowed
Scholarship Fund of the Cadillac Area Community
Foundation, Cadillac
Baker & Hostetler Founders Trust, Cleveland, Ohio
Bethany Christian Services, Inc., Grand Rapids
Kevin L. Beyer, Richland
James K. Billman, Jr., Moline, Illinois
Douglas A. Busch, Ann Arbor
ChevronTexaco, Princeton, New Jersey
Comerica, Inc., Detroit
Con Edison, New York, New York
H. Charles Cremin, Tucson, Arizona
Katharina Curtius, Tagerwilen, Germany
Drubel Family Fund of the New Hampshire Charitable
Foundation, Concord, New Hampshire
Fulton B. Eaglin, Ann Arbor
Edison International, Rosemead, California
Egyptian Cultural and Educational Bureau, Washington,
D.C.
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
Fisher Scientific, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Mary D. Fisher Fund of the Community Foundation for
Palm Beach and Martin Counties, West Palm
Beach, Florida
Donald Flexner, New York, New York
Four Star Transportation Company, Melvindale
Gordon B. Fox, Palos Verdes Estates, California
Friendly Ford, Inc., Monroe
Michael D. and Ann D. Green Fund of the Schwab Fund
for Charitable Giving, San Francisco, California
Frederick A. Henderson, Miami, Florida
Clark Hill, PLC, Detroit
Honeywell International, Inc., Morristown, New Jersey
J. P. Morgan Chase Foundation, New York, New York
J. P. Morgan Chase, Houston, Texas
John M. Jabe, Chester, Virginia

Jewish Community Federation of Cleveland, Cleveland,
Ohio
Carol L. Josefowicz, Ann Arbor
Janey and Melvin Lack Charitable Fund of the Fidelity
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Leukemia Research Foundation, Skokie, Illinois
Thomas L. Lott Trust
Donald R. Maxwell, Ann Arbor
James A. McDivitt, Tucson, Arizona
Mika, Meyers, Beckett & Jones, Grand Rapids
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, Saint
Paul, Minnesota
Joan Nelson Neil, Deerfield, Illinois
Roger S. Newton, Ann Arbor
Northrop Grumman Foundation, Los Angeles, California
Eugenia M. Oole Estate
Susan T. Parkinson Foundation, Hailey, Idaho
Pentastar Aviation, LLC, Waterford
Mitzi Perdue, Salisbury, Maryland
Ronald L. Piasecki, Grand Haven
Judith A. Pitney, Ann Arbor
Doris G. Quinn Foundation, Bedford, New York
Wendy W. Robbins, Houston, Texas
Raymond W. Smith, McLean, Virginia
State Street Bank & Trust Company, Boston,
Massachusetts
Robert G. Strachan, New York, New York
Stryker Orthopaedics, Mahwah, New Jersey
Joyce P. Summerwill, Iowa City, Iowa
James S. Taylor, Northville
Ten Thousand Villages of Huron Valley, Ann Arbor
Thyssen Krupp Budd Company, Troy
Tisch, Inc., Ann Arbor
Turner Construction Company, Detroit
University of Michigan Club of Greater Detroit, Grosse
Pointe Woods
Visteon, Livonia
Volkswagen of America, Inc., Auburn Hills
Julie Welch, Indianapolis, Indiana
Thomas L. Wiese, Dallas, Texas
Jack C. Wileden, Deerfield, Massachusetts
John P. Williams, Leawood, Kansas

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
David A. Brandon, Ann Arbor
hosting of a reception for the benefit of the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital
Julie Ford Designs, Longwood, Florida
110 centerpieces and table linens for the University Hospitals
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
one Inspiron 9400 computer and carrying case for the College of Engineering
International Business Machines Corporation, Triangle Park, North Carolina
equipment for the University of Michigan
John Rich, Beverly Hills, California
hosting of an Event for the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ester L. Steffens, Newark, Delaware
original watercolor art by Arthur Rackham for the University Library

291



April Meeting, 2006

Personnel Actions and Personnel Reports. Provost Gramlich submitted a
number of personnel actions and reports. He noted that the University's science
departments have been moving up in the U.S. News and World Report rankings in
recent years. He also highlighted recommendations for the reappointment of Frances X.
Blouin as director of the Bentley Historical Library, changes in title for Theodore L.
Spencer (to associate vice provost and executive director of undergraduate admissions),
and Catherine Shaw (to assistant provost).
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Atkins, Ella M., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Aerospace Engineering, College of Engineering,
September 1, 2006
Carruthers, Vernon B., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School,
June 1, 2006
Hu, Howard, Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, and Chair, Department of Environmental
Health Sciences, School of Public Health, September 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
Westphal, James, Ph.D., Professor of Strategy, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September 1, 2006
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANKS, WITHOUT TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Dempsey, Peter J., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases and Associate
Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Medical School, April 21, 2006
Hodgdon, Barbara C., Ph.D., Professor of English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2010
Liebert, Monica, Ph.D., Professor of Urology, Medical School, May 1, 2006
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Blouin, Francis X., Jr., Director, Bentley Historical Library, July 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
Hayward, Rodney A., Professor of Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public
Health, September 1, 2006
Sampselle, Carolyn M., Associate Dean for Research, School of Nursing, September 1, 2005-August 30,
2007
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Lubman, David M., Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Maude T. Lane Professor of Surgical
Immunology, Medical School, and Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, also appointed Professor of Pathology, without tenure, Medical School,

292



April Meeting, 2006

ESTABLISHING AND RENAMING PROFESSORSHIPS
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE POSITIONS
Effective April 21, 2006
Establishment of Collegiate Professorship
Michael S. Aldrich Collegiate Professorship in Sleep Medicine, Medical School
Establishment of Research Professorships
Marvin and Betty Danto Research Professorship in Connective Tissue Research, Medical School
Phil F. Jenkins Research Professorship in Depression, Medical School
Establishment of Endowed Professorships
Wamer-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professorship in Medicine, Medical School (third professorship), Medical
School
Wamer-Lambert/Parke-Davis Professorship in Medicine, Medical School (fourth professorship), Medical
School
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Establishment of a New Academic Administrative Position
Associate Dean for Research and Innovation, School of Information, May 1, 2006
Reorganization and Creation of a New Title
From Associate Dean for Minority Services to Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and Director of
Minority Services, School of Music, June 1, 2006
From Associate Dean for Internet Publications to Associate Dean for Research and Planning, School of
Music, June 1, 2006
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Gruber, Stephen B., H. Marvin Pollard Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 21,
2006-August 31, 2011
Punch, Jeffrey D., Jeremiah and Claire Turcotte Professor of Transplantation Surgery, Medical School,
April 21, 2006-August 31, 2011
Appointment to Collegiate Professorship
Kuzon, William M., Reed O. Dingman Collegiate Professor of Plastic Surgery, Medical School, April 21,
2006-August 31, 2011
Other Transactions
Finholt, Thomas A., Associate Dean for Research and Innovation, School of Information, May 1,
2006-April 30, 2011
Halperin, David M., title of W.H. Auden Collegiate Professor of English Language and Literature
corrected to W.H. Auden Collegiate Professor of the History and Theory of Sexuality, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, effective January 1, 2006-December 31, 2010
Shaw, Catherine, Assistant Provost, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic
Affairs, May 1, 2006
Siedel, George J., III, reappointed Williamson Family Professor of Business, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, September 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
Spencer, Theodore L., Associate Vice Provost and Executive Director of Undergraduate Admissions,
Office of the Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs, April 1, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTMENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Apelbaum, Perry H., J.D., Lecturer I in Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
January 1-April 30, 2006
Balasubramanian, Natarajan, M.A., Intermittent Lecturer in Business, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business, March 1-April 30, 2006

293



April Meeting, 2006

ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVES OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS'
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Kovalak, William P., Ph.D., Lecturer III in Biology, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, personal leave, January 1-December 31, 2006
TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS'
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Retired
Hellmann, Joan S., A.M., Lecturer IV in Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31,
2006
Resigned
Crawford, William J., I., Ed.D., Lecturer II in Natural Sciences, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences,
and Letters, December 31, 2005
Jiang, Jie, Master, Lecturer I in Management, UM-Flint School of Management, August 31, 2005
Rampson-Gage, Wendy L., M.U.P., Intermittent Lecturer in Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College
of Architecture and Urban Planning, April 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Alvey, Jennifer E., M.A., Instructor in Sociology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1,
2006-May 31, 2009
Cotts, Timothy B., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
July 1, 2006-June 30, 2007
Dempsey, Amanda F., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, April 17-August 31, 2006
Haapala, Heidi J., M.D., Clinical Lecturer in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School,
March 1, 2006-January 8, 2007
Holmes, Crystal M., D.P.M., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, March 1,
2006-February 28, 2009
Jablonowski, Christiane, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Atmospheric, Oceanic, and Space Sciences,
College of Engineering, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2009
Leung, Helios T., O.D., Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School,
March 1, 2006-February 28, 2007
Rogers, Lisa R., D.O., Clinical Professor of Neurology, Medical School, March 1, 2006-February 28,
2009
Wherry, Frederick F., Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2009
CORRECTIONS OR CHANGES TO ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Pennathur, Subramaniam, M.B.B.S., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, February
20, 2006-February 7, 2013 (previously reported as February 8, 2006-F ebruary 7, 2013)
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Stem, Alexandra, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, also appointed
Assistant Professor of American Culture, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, July 1,
2002-May 31, 2010

294



April Meeting, 2006

Temple, Henry J., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry to Clinical Lecturer in Dentistry, School
of Dentistry, September 1, 2005-August 31, 2009
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effective on the dates indicated
Bacon, George E., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
November 1, 2005-October 31, 2006
Chesler, Mark, Professor Emeritus of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, January 1,
2006-April 30, 2007
Hopwood, Nancy J., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School,
August 1, 2005-July 31, 2006
Schmerl, Rudolf B., Associate Professor Emeritus of Technical Communications, College of
Engineering, January 1-April 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Colas, Santiago, Associate Professor of Spanish, Latin American Literature, and Comparative Literature,
with tenure, Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, and Associate Professor of
Comparative Literature, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty off campus
leave, September 1-December 31, 2005, and sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Debski, Bernard F., Clinical Assistant Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry, extended sick leave,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
Dechow, Patricia M., Carleton H. Griffin-Deloitte and Touche LLP Collegiate Professor of Accounting
and Professor of Accounting, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, research leave,
September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Dennison, Joseph D., Marcus L. Ward Professor of Dentistry and Professor of Dentistry, School of
Dentistry, retirement furlough, January 1, 2006-December 31, 2007
Flax, Neil M., Associate Professor of Comparative Literature and German, with tenure, UM-Dearborn
College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, retirement furlough, September 1, 2005-December 31, 2006
Larsen, Janet L., Clinical Lecturer in Family Medicine, Medical School, child care leave, March 13-April
30, 2006
Reinhardt, Steven K., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure,
College of Engineering, personal leave, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Samra, Satwant K., Professor of Anesthesiology, with tenure, Medical School, retirement furlough,
March 1, 2006-February 29, 2008
Thomas, Susan E., Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical
School, extended sick leave, September 14, 2005-September 14, 2006
Tkachenko, Alexei V., Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, duty
off campus leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Trepanier-Street, Mary L., Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Education,
sabbatical leave, January 1-December 31, 2006
Van Der Pluijm, Ben., Professor of Geological Sciences, with tenure, and Professor of the Environment,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,
2006
CANCELLATIONS OF ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Rees, Riley, Professor of Surgery, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, January 1-March 31,
2006 (canceled)
TERMINATIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Retired
Allen, Layman E., Professor of Law, with tenure, Law School, May 31, 2006
Bengtsson, Erling B., Professor of Music, with tenure, School of Music, Theatre & Dance, May 31, 2006
Carlson, Bruce M., Professor of Anatomy, with tenure, Medical School, January 31, 2006

295



April Meeting, 2006

Cope, Virgil W., Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31,
2006
Dapogny, James, Arthur F. Thumau Professor and Professor of Music, School of Music, Theatre &
Dance, May 31, 2006
King, Larry M., Associate Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences, June 30, 2006
Miller, Douglas E., Associate Professor of German, with tenure, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences,
May 31, 2006
Rasmussen, Paul G., Arthur F. Thumau Professor, Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, with
tenure, College of Engineering, May 31, 2006
Rose, Sonya O., Natalie Zemon Davis Collegiate Professor of History, Sociology, and Women's Studies,
Professor of History, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2006
Resigned
Beene, Richard A., Associate Professor of Music, with tenure, School of Music, Theatre & Dance, May
31, 2006
Bump, Gregory M., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, July 2, 2006
Chetty, Indrin J., Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology, Medical School, May 31, 2006
Davis, Steven D., Assistant Professor of Music, School of Music, Theatre & Dance, May 31, 2006
Kausch, David T., Lecturer II in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, February 28,
2006
Meador-Woodruff, James H., Professor of Psychiatry, with tenure, Medical School, March 31, 2006
Nikels, Susan M., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 9, 2006
Scheve, Kenneth F., Jr., Associate Professor of Public Policy, with tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of
Public Policy, May 31, 2006
Shehab, Joslyn M., Clinical Instructor in Family Medicine, Medical School, February 28, 2006
Term Completed
Clay, Michael A., Lecturer II in Management, UM-Dearborn School of Management, April 30, 2006
Hickman, Leaden, Assistant Professor of Health Sciences and Administration, UM-Flint School of
Health Professions and Studies, May 31, 2006
Karam-Hage, Maher A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School, June 30, 2006
Kurtz, Ron M., Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, August 31,
2005
Padgett, Charles S., Assistant Professor of Social Studies, UM-Dearborn School of Education, April 30,
2006
Signal, Bonita M., Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2006
CANCELLATIONS OF PREVIOUSLY APPROVED
REGENTS COMMUNICATIONS
Halloran, M. Elizabeth, cancellation of appointment approved in July 2005 as Professor of Biostatistics,
with tenure, School of Public Health
Loch-Caruso, Rita, cancellation of appointment approved in July 2005 as Interim Chair of the
Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 2 retiring
faculty members.
Bruce M. Carlson, M.D., Ph.D., professor of anatomy in the Department of Cell
and Developmental Biology in the Medical School and research professor in the
Institute of Gerontology, retired from active faculty status on January 31, 2006,
following 40-year career as an active teacher, researcher, and administrator.
Dr. Carlson received his B.A. degree from Gustavus Adolphus College in 1959,
his M.S. degree from Cornell University in 1961, and his M.D. and Ph.D. degrees from
the University of Minnesota in 1965. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an
assistant professor of anatomy in 1966 and was promoted to associate professor in 1970
and professor in 1975. From 1979-2001 he also held an appointment as professor of

296



April Meeting, 2006

biology. He was appointed research scientist in the Institute of Gerontology in 1989
and was promoted to senior research scientist (now research professor) in 1997. He
served as chair of the Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology from 1998-2000 and
was director of the Institute of Gerontology from 2000-2003.
A pioneer in the field of mammalian regeneration, Dr. Carlson conducted
extensive laboratory research in the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, the Netherlands,
Finland, and New Zealand. He has authored ten books on embryology and regeneration
and two more are nearing completion. He has served as president of the American
Association of Anatomists and president of the Association of Anatomy, Cell Biology,
and Neurobiology Chairpersons. His honors include the AAAS Newcomb-Cleveland
Prize, membership in the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences, and the Henry Gray
Award of the American Association of Anatomists. An accomplished teacher, he has
received the Medical School's Elizabeth Crosby and Kaiser-Permanente Teaching
Awards.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Bruce M.
Carlson professor emeritus of anatomy and research professor emeritus.
Bruce A. Friedman, M.D., professor of pathology, retired from active faculty
status on April 30, 2006.
Dr. Friedman received his M.D. degree from the University of Michigan in
1966. He completed an internship at Yale-New Haven Hospital in 1967, received
residency training in pathology at the University of Michigan from 1967-71, and served
in the U.S. Army Medical Corps from 1971-73. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1973 as an assistant professor of pathology, and was promoted to associate
professor in 1976 and professor in 1980. From 1979-82 he held a joint appointment as
associate professor of epidemiology in the School of Public Health. In addition to his
professorial appointments, Dr. Friedman served in a number of administrative
capacities, including assistant (1973-74) and then associate (1974-82) director of the
Blood Bank, director of Phlebotomy and Central Distribution (1980-96), and director of
Pathology Data Systems (since 1982). Within the Health System, he held positions as
director of Ancillary Information (1996-2000) and director of Clinical Support Systems
(2000-01).
Dr. Friedman is the author of more than 80 publications in the area of
information technology and its strategic position in the medical electronic record and
other areas of health care. He coined the term "pathology informatics" in the medical
literature, which has become part of the lexicon. He has been an editorial consultant for
a number of journals, and serves on the editorial board of Clinical Laboratory
Management Review. He has served as a consultant on information technology and
laboratory management and is the founding president of the Association for Pathology
Informatics. From 1983-2003, Dr. Friedman directed an annual symposium held in
Ann Arbor, "Automated Information Management in the Clinical Laboratory"
(AIMCL). Since 2004, he has conducted the LabInfoTech Summit in Las Vegas (a
continuation of the AIMCL), which is one of the two leading international conferences
devoted to information technology in the clinical laboratory. He also created a business
intelligence blog, "Lab Soft News," devoted to the clinical laboratory and pathology
informatics, which is now achieving a global following.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Bruce A.
Friedman professor emeritus of pathology.

297



April Meeting, 2006

Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents this
month.
Degrees. Provost Gramlich submitted for approval the doctoral degree list for the
April 2006 commencement, the final degree list for the Law School December 18, 2005
commencement, and changes to previously approved degree lists.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by
Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.
The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda. Regents Deitch
and Richner joined the meeting by telephone at this point.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 5 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Maynard,
seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following
items:
Amendment to License Agreement among the University of Michigan, Princeton
University, University of Southern California, and Global Photonic Energy
Corporation
The Regents approved an amendment to a license agreement among the University
of Michigan ("University"), Princeton University, University of Southern California,
and Global Photonic Energy Corporation ("GPEC") by which GPEC will add the
University to its existing license with Princeton University and the University of
Southern California. Because Stephen R. Forrest, a University faculty member and
executive officer, is also partial owner of GPEC, this agreement falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and GPEC.
2.   The amendment terms include adding the University as a party into the existing license
which gives GPEC an exclusive license with the right to grant sublicenses to
technology developed under their research funding. GPEC will pay a royalty on sales
and reimburse patent costs. The University will retain ownership of the licensed
technology and may continue to further develop it and use it internally. No use of
University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
Additional conflict of interest review will be done as appropriate
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Forrest arise from his ownership interest in GPEC. He
will waive any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and SubLamda
Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement with SubLamda Technologies, Inc.
to perform research at the University under the direction of Dr. Alan J. Hunt. Because
Dr. Hunt is both an owner of Sublamda Technologies and a University of Michigan

298



April Meeting, 2006

employee, this subcontract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute.
The following information is provided in compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and SubLamda Technologies,
Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. Dr. Hunt will be the
principal investigator for the project at the University to be conducted over an initial
one-year period at an estimated total cost of $48,838 including indirect cost at 9%, the
rate that is available to all STTR Phase I proposals.
3.   Dr. Hunt's pecuniary interest arises from his ownership of SubLamda Technologies,
Inc. His participation in this project will only be in his capacity as an employee of the
University.
Patent Option     Agreement between       the   University   of Michigan     and   Nico
Technologies Incorporated
The Regents approved a patent option agreement with Nico Technologies
Incorporated ("Nico") for licensing of the following technology from the University:
UM File No. 3339, "Fabrication of Inverted Colloidal Crystal Scaffolds for 3D Cell
Cultures in a Standard Cell Culture Well-Plates and the use thereof in Biological
Assays." Because Professor Nicholas Kotov is both a University of Michigan employee
and a partial owner of Nico, this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of
Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and Nico
Technologies, Inc.
2.   Option terms include giving Nico the option to obtain exclusive license in the field of
use of biomaterials with the right to grant sublicenses. The University will retain
ownership of the optioned technology and may continue to further develop it and use
it internally. No use of University services or facilities, nor any assignment of
University employees, is obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard
disclaimers of warrantees and indemnification apply, and the contract may be
amended by consent of the parties. University procedures for approval of these
changes will be followed and additional review by the Conflict of Interest Review
Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interest of Dr. Kotov arises from his ownership interest in Nico
Technologies, Inc. He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue
received by the University.
Subcontract Agreement between the University of Michigan and EMAG
Technologies, Inc.
The Regents approved a subcontract agreement between the University of
Michigan and EMAG Technologies, Inc. to fund a project in the College of Engineering
under the direction of Dr. Roger DeRoo. Because Professor Kamal Sarabandi is both a
University  of Michigan    employee    and  a co-founder and     co-owner of EMAG
Technologies, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.   The following    information   is provided   in  compliance with    statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the University of Michigan and EMAG Technologies, Inc.
2.   The terms of the agreement conform to University policy. The period of performance
for the project is 24 months and the amount of funding support is $279,366.
3.   Professor Sarabandi's pecuniary interest arises from his status as co-founder and
co-owner of EMAG Technologies, Inc.

299



April Meeting, 2006

Option Agreement between the University of Michigan and InflaRX, Inc.
The Regents approved an option agreement with InflaRX, Inc. to commercialize
the following technologies from   the University:   UM    OTT   File No. 1663cl,
"Compositions and Methods for the Treatment of Sepsis;" UM OTT File No. 1663pl,
"Anti-C5A for the Treatment of Sepsis;" and UM OTT File No. 2416, "Diagnostic Test
for Sepsis." Because Dr. Renfeng Guo is both a University of Michigan employee and
a partial owner of InflaRX, Inc., this agreement falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and InflaRX,
Inc.
2.   Option terms include giving InflaRX, Inc. an exclusive option with the right to
exercise the option and enter into an exclusive license agreement. No use of
University services or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the agreement may be amended by consent of the
parties. University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and
additional review by the Conflict of Interest Board will be done as appropriate.
3.   The pecuniary interests of Dr. Guo arise from his ownership interest in InflaRX, Inc.
He has waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the
University.
Regent Deitch left the meeting at this point.
Report of University Internal Audits October 2005-February 2006
The Regents received the report of the Office of University Audits activities for
the period October 1, 2005 through February 28, 2006.
Financial Statements and Reports Pursuant to Federal Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-133
The Regents received the Reports of Federal Awards in accordance with OMB
Circular A-133 for the year ended June 30, 2005.
WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM            and WFUM-TV Financial Statements for the Fiscal
Year Ending June 30, 2005
The Regents received the financial statements for the WUOM/WVGR/WFUM-FM
and WFUM-TV for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2005, as required by the Corporation
for Public Broadcasting. Executive Vice President Slottow reported that the stations
had just completed a very successful fund drive. He noted also that the Phase 2 audit
report has been completed and that revision of all policies and procedures related to
internal controls is proceeding.
Sale of Gifted Real Estate (Gordon Hall)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents that the closing of the
transaction for the sale of the Gordon Hall property had occurred on March 15, 2006.

300



April Meeting, 2006

Sale of Gifted Real Estate (Loudon, Tennessee)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents that the closing of the
transaction for the sale of a lot in Loudon, Tennessee had occurred on March 9, 2006, with
the proceeds of the sale to benefit the Kellogg Eye Center.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Candover 2005 Fund, Summit Partners Private
Equity Fund VII, L.P., Summit Partners Venture Capital Fund II, L.P., Vestar Capital
Partners V, L.P., Menlo Ventures X, L.P.)
The Regents were informed that follow-on investments had been made with the
following, previously approved private equity partnerships and venture capital
partnerships: Candover 2005 Fund; Summit Partners Private Equity Fund VII, L.P.;
Summit Partners Venture Capital Fund II, L.P.; Vestar Capital Partners V, L.P., and Menlo
Ventures X, L.P.
Alternative Asset Commitment [Fortress Investment Fund IV (Coinvestment Funds)]
and Absolute Return Commitment (Avenue Asia Special Situations Fund IV, L.P.)
On a motion by Regent White, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of $7.0 million from the Long Term Portfolio to
Fortress Investment Fund IV (Coinvestment Funds), and commitment of up to $50.0
million from the Long Term Portfolio to Avenue Asia Special Situations Fund IV, L.P.
Regent Richner left the meeting at this point. Regent Newman explained that he was
spending spring break vacationing with his family and had called in to assure a quorum.
Appointment of Auditors for Fiscal Years 2006 through 2008
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as external auditors
for fiscal years 2006 through 2008.
Sale of Commercial Paper by the University
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved a resolution for the issuance of up to $150 million of commercial paper supported
by a pledge of General Revenues; the increase of up to $125.3 million in the commercial
paper outstanding. The Regents also authorized the executive vice president and chief
financial officer, associate vice president for finance, or treasurer, to execute all the
documentation for the establishment and issuance of the Series G and extension of Series E
commercial paper and the roll-over of the outstanding Series F into the proposed Series G
program, and to negotiate a liquidity facility, if appropriate. The resolution can be found in
the appendix, page 304.
Naming of the North Campus Auditorium in Honor of Penelope and E. Roe Stamps
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved formally designating the North Campus Auditorium that will be
connected to the Charles R. Walgreen, Jr. Drama Center, the Stamps Auditorium.
Marie Dorothy Hartwig Women's Athletic Offices Renovation and Renaming
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Marie Dorothy Hartwig Women's Athletic Offices Renovation

301



April Meeting, 2006

Project as described, and authorized commissioning Jickling Lyman Powell Associates,
Inc. for its design. The Regents also approved changing the name of this building to the
Marie Dorothy Hartwig Administration Building.
University of Michigan-Flint David M. French Hall Renovations
Executive Vice President Slottow reported that the majority of the funding for this
project will come from the State of Michigan 2005 Supplemental Capital Outlay Request.
Chancellor Mestas commented about the importance of this renovation project to the Flint
campus.
Executive Vice President Slottow introduced Deborah Sharp, project manager from
DSA Architects, LLC. Ms. Sharp displayed schematic designs and floor plans and
described the functions and activities that would be accommodated on each floor. On a
motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents unanimously
approved the schematic design for the University of Michigan-Flint David M. French Hall
Renovations Project as presented at the meeting.
Mosher-Jordan Hall Renovation and Hill Dining Center
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Mosher-Jordan Renovation and Hill Dining Center
Project for bids and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the
approved budget.
Stephen M. Ross School of Business Facilities Enhancement Project
On a motion by Regent McGowan, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Stephen M. Ross School of Business Facilities
Enhancement Project for bids and awarding remaining construction contracts providing
that bids are within the approved budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Arbor Lakes 2 Building
Machine Room Structural Support Project
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Arbor
Lakes 2 Building Machine Room Structural Support Project as described, authorized
commissioning Stantec Consulting for its design, and authorized issuing the project for
bids and awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved
budget.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers University Hospital Magnetic
Resonance Imaging Support Space Renovations

302



April Meeting, 2006

2006-07 University Housing Residence Hall and Northwood Community Apartments
Rates
On a motion by Regent Maynard, seconded by Regent Taylor, the Regents
unanimously approved the rate recommendations for residence halls and Northwood
Community Apartments for FY 2006-07, as enumerated in the Regents Communication.
University of Michigan Health System (UMHS) Washtenaw Community Health
Organization (WCHO) Appointment and Reappointment to the WCHO Board of
Directors
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent McGowan, the Regents
unanimously approved the appointments of Cassandra McCallister (new appointment) and
Diane Davidson (reappointment) to the board of directors of the Washtenaw Community
Health Organization.
Proposed change to the Academic Calendars for the Fall Term 2006 and Fall Term
2007 for the University of Michigan-Dearborn Campus
On a motion by Regent Taylor, seconded by Regent White, the Regents unanimously
approved changes to the academic calendars for the Dearborn campus for fall term 2006
and fall term 2007, as described in the Regents Communication.
A ten-minute break followed.
Public Comments
The Public Comments session began at 10:40 a.m. The Regents heard comments from
the following individuals, on the topics indicated: Alan Krisch, faculty member, on the UM
coercing faculty into retirement; David Boyle, alumnus, on UM investment and integrity
issues; Stephen Rassi, student, Jessi Gan, student, Donald C. Pelz, emeritus faculty member,
Sandra Samons, alumna, and Holly Burmeister, student, on implementation of the provost's
TBLG Task Force recommendations; Jim Mogensen, citizen, on lifelong thinking and the
town/gown relationship; Barry LaRue, staff and member of Ypsilanti City Council, on the
University's contract with AATA; Simeon Anderson, student, on treatment of minority
students by University administration; and Laurel Federbush, alumna, on divestment from
Israel.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 11:40 a.m. The next
meeting is scheduled for May 19, 2006.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretary of the University

303



APRIL MEETING, 2006 - APPENDIX

RESOLUTION OF THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF COMMERCIAL PAPER NOTES,
SERIES G, AND PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATING THERETO
WHEREAS, the Regents of the University of Michigan (the "Issuer") constitutes a
constitutional body corporate established pursuant to Article VIII, Section 5 of the Michigan
Constitution of 1963, as amended, with the general supervision of The University of
Michigan (the "University") and the control and direction of all expenditures from the
University's funds; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and desirable to provide for the
temporary financing of capital projects of the University, currently under way or to be
undertaken, through the issuance of Regents of the University of Michigan Commercial
Paper Notes, Series G (the "Notes") and for the financing of capital projects, currently under
way or to be undertaken through the continued issuance of the previously authorized
Regents of the University of Michigan Commercial Paper Notes, Series E (Taxable) (the
"Series E Notes") in the aggregate principal amount of both the Notes and the Series E Notes
outstanding from time to time not to exceed $150,000,000; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has determined it is necessary and appropriate to refund
through the issuance of the Notes the outstanding balance of the Issuer's Commercial Paper
Notes, Series F (the "Prior Notes"); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has approved certain capital projects to be temporarily
financed in whole or in part through the issuance of the Notes and the Series E Notes, and
may approve additional projects to be so financed (all such projects, together with the
projects financed or refinanced with the proceeds of the Prior Notes being herein called the
"Projects"); and
WHEREAS, in order to continue to issue notes of the Series E Notes for new money
purposes, and to increase the aggregate principal amount of the Series E Notes which may be
outstanding, it is necessary to amend the "Resolution of the Regents of the University of
Michigan Authorizing the Issuance and Delivery of Commercial Paper Notes, Series D and
Series E and Providing for Other Matters Relating Thereto", as previously amended (the
"2003 Resolution"), adopted on January 16, 2003 and amended on June 17, 2004; and
WHEREAS, in order to provide for the issuance of the Notes, it will be necessary for
one or more of the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Associate Vice
President for Finance, or the Treasurer (each an "Authorized Officer") to execute and deliver
one or more Commercial Paper Issuance Certificates (collectively, the "Issuance
Certificate"), one or more Commercial Paper Issuing and Paying Agent Agreements
(collectively, the "Paying Agent Agreement") with a bank or banks to be selected by an
Authorized Officer, one or more Dealer Agreements (each a "Dealer Agreement") with a
dealer or dealers (collectively, the "Dealer") to be designated by an Authorized Officer, and,
if deemed appropriate by an Authorized Officer, an agreement or agreements relating to a
liquidity facility; and
WHEREAS, the Notes are to be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer,
payable from and secured by a pledge of General Revenues (as shall be defined in the
Issuance Certificate in a manner generally consistent with the definition thereof in the Trust
Agreement pursuant to which the Issuer's General Revenue Bonds, Series 2005A were
issued) and the Notes to be additionally payable from Available Investments (as shall be
defined in the Issuance Certificate); and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has previously issued certain series of bonds or notes (the
"Senior Lien Indebtedness") secured by and payable from Student Fees or other revenue
streams (other than Hospital Gross Revenues) which comprise a portion of General
Revenues, and it is intended that each series of the Senior Lien Indebtedness remain
outstanding and continue to be secured, until paid or defeased, by its respective revenue
stream on a senior lien basis to the Notes and other General Revenue indebtedness
previously or subsequently issued, but that no new Senior Lien Indebtedness is to be issued;
and

304



APRIL MEETING, 2006 - APPENDIX

WHEREAS, it is necessary for the Issuer to delegate to each of the Authorized
Officers the power to designate certain Authorized Representatives and Authorized Persons
(each as defined in the Issuance Certificate or Paying Agent Agreement) to undertake certain
actions with respect to the issuance of Notes; and
WHEREAS, the Notes and the Series B Notes are to finally mature on or before the
date three years after the date of issuance of the first Notes hereunder, and in either case, are
intended (to the extent not previously retired) to be replaced by permanent General Revenue
financing on or prior to such date; and
WHEREAS, in the exercise of its constitutional duties, and in order to prudently
control and direct expenditures from the University's funds, the Issuer determines it is
necessary and desirable to increase the authorized principal amount of, and to extend the
period during which the Series B Notes may be issued as provided herein, to authorize the
issuance of the Notes to provide funds to temporarily finance and refinance all or part of the
costs of the Projects, to refund the Prior Notes, and to pay certain costs incurred in
connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes and the refunding; and
WHEREAS, in order to be able to market the Notes, it is necessary for the Issuer to
authorize an Authorized Officer to prepare, execute and deliver, on behalf of the Issuer, an
Offering Memorandum (as supplemented from time to time, the "Offering Memorandum")
to be circulated and used in connection with the marketing, sale and delivery of the Notes,
and to take, together with other appropriate officers, agents and representatives of the Issuer
or the University, additional actions necessary to accomplish the sale and delivery of the
Notes, the administration of the commercial paper program of which the Notes are a part,
and the purposes hereof, all within the limitations set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, the financing and refinancing of the Projects, and the refunding of the
Prior Notes will serve proper and appropriate public purposes; and
WHEREAS, the Issuer has full power under its constitutional authority for supervision
of the University, and control and expenditures from the University funds, to increase the
authorized principal amount of, and extend the period during which the Series B Notes may
be issued, as provided herein, to authorize and acquire the Projects, to refund the Prior
Notes, to finance by the issuance of the Notes the costs of the Projects, the refunding and the
costs related to the issuance of the Notes and the refunding, and to pledge the General
Revenues of the University for payment of the Notes and to covenant to pay the Notes from
Available Investments.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN, AS FOLLOWS:
1.  The Issuer hereby authorizes the issuance, execution and delivery of the Notes of
the Issuer, in multiple issuances on various dates, to be designated REGENTS OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN COMMERCIAL PAPER NOTES, SERIES G, with
additional or alternative series designations, as shall be determined appropriate by an
Authorized Officer, in the aggregate principal amount outstanding from time to time as shall
be designated by any one of the Authorized Officers, but not, together with outstanding
principal of the Series E Notes, in excess of $150,000,000, to be dated as of a date of
issuance of each Note, or otherwise as shall be determined by an Authorized Officer, for the
purpose of (a) financing and refinancing all or part of the costs of the Projects, (b) refunding
the Prior Notes, and (c) paying all or part of the costs incidental to the issuance of the Notes
and the refunding. The Projects as a whole are hereby determined by the Issuer to constitute
a sZingle gove-rnme-ntalnl prpose onffl -the Isue-r.The -Nontes shalnl not besubject to rede-mption

305



APRIL MEETING, 2006 - APPENDIX

2.   The Notes shall be limited and not general obligations of the Issuer payable from
and equally and ratably secured by a lien on General Revenues on a parity basis with the lien
securing the Issuer's outstanding General Revenue Bonds in several series, and other
obligations secured by a parity lien on General Revenues, now or hereafter outstanding,
subject only to the senior liens on portions of General Revenues securing the respective
series of Senior Lien Indebtedness (until each respective series of such Senior Lien
Indebtedness is paid or defeased in accordance with its terms), and moneys from time to time
on deposit in the Note Payment Fund created pursuant to the Issuance Certificate, as
provided therein. The Notes shall also be payable from Available Investments, as defined
and provided in the Issuance Certificate.  The Issuer shall covenant in the Issuance
Certificate that so long as any of the Notes remain outstanding, the Issuer will not issue any
new series of Senior Lien Indebtedness.
In support of its obligation to repay the Notes, and the Series E Notes, and, if deemed
appropriate by an Authorized Officer, in support of the Issuer's obligations with respect to
other bonds, notes or similar instruments subject to tender at the option of the holder, the
Issuer may, if deemed appropriate by an Authorized Officer, enter into one or more letters of
credit, lines of credit, note purchase agreements or other liquidity facilities (collectively, the
"Liquidity Facility"). Any reimbursement obligation (including interest) for draws under the
Liquidity Facility shall be a limited and not general obligation of the Issuer, payable from
General Revenues, and may be secured by a pledge of General Revenues. The Authorized
Officers are, or any one of them is, authorized to negotiate, execute and deliver, for and on
behalf of the Issuer, such agreement or agreements (collectively, the "Liquidity Agreement")
as an Authorized Officer may deem appropriate to acquire the Liquidity Facility and to
provide for the repayment of draws thereunder, as provided herein.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal amount of or interest on the
Notes, or under the Liquidity Agreement, or any claim based thereon against the State of
Michigan, or, except as provided in the Issuance Certificate and the Liquidity Agreement,
the Issuer, or against any officer or agent of the Issuer or of the University, as individuals,
either directly or indirectly, nor shall the Notes and interest with respect thereto nor the
obligations under the Liquidity Agreement, become a lien on or be secured by any property,
real, personal or mixed of the State of Michigan, the Issuer, or the University, other than the
General Revenues and the moneys from time to time on deposit in the Note Payment Fund
created by the Issuance Certificate.
3.   The right is reserved to issue additional bonds, notes or other obligations payable
from and secured by General Revenues on a parity basis with the Notes and other General
Revenue bonds and obligations as to the lien on General Revenues, but subject to the prior
liens on portions thereof securing Senior Lien Indebtedness.
4.   The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized and
directed to select a bank or banks to be Issuing and Paying Agent, and one or more Dealers,
and any one of the Authorized Officers is authorized and directed, in the name of the Issuer
and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute and deliver the Issuance Certificate,
the Paying Agent Agreement and one or more Dealer Agreements, consistent with the terms
of this Resolution, as the Authorized Officers executing the same shall approve, which
approval shall be conclusively evidenced by the execution of the respective documents.
5.   The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized and
directed to designate employees or agents of the University to act as Authorized
Representatives with respect to the issuance of Notes, and to designate Authorized Persons,
who may be employees or agents of the University or employees or agents of the Dealer, to
take certain actions with respect to the issuance of Notes, all as provided in the Issuance
Certificate, the Paying Agent Agreement, or any Dealer Agreement.
6.   The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them  is, hereby authorized,
empowered and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Issuer, and as its corporate act and
deed, to execute the Notes by manual or facsimile signature and to deliver the Notes to the
purchaser in exchange for the purchase price thereof, as provided in the Issuance Certificate
and the Paying Agent Agreement. The Notes may be issued in the form of one or more
Master Notes, as provided in the Paying Agent Agreement.

306



APRIL MEETING, 2006 - APPENDIX

7.   The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized to cause to
be prepared and circulated the Offering Memorandum with respect to the Notes, and to
update, or cause to be updated the Offering Memorandum, through supplements or
otherwise, as an Authorized Officer shall deem appropriate, or as may be required by law.
Any Dealer is authorized to circulate and use, in accordance with applicable law, the
Offering Memorandum, as the same may have been updated or supplemented from time to
time, in the offering, sale and delivery of the Notes.
8.   The Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized to provide
for the final payment date or dates of the Prior Notes, and to take any and all actions
necessary and appropriate to provide for the payment when due of all amounts with respect
to the Prior Notes, from the proceeds of the Notes or other available funds of the University.
9.   Section 1 of the 2003 Resolution is hereby amended to provide that the Series B
Notes may be issued in the aggregate principal amount outstanding from time to time not,
together with the outstanding principal of the Notes, to exceed $150,000,000, for the
purposes specified in the 2003 Resolution, and shall have a final maturity date of not later
than three years from the date of issuance of the first Series G Notes hereunder. The
Authorized Officers are, or any one of them is, hereby authorized and directed, in the name
of the Issuer and as its corporate act and deed, to negotiate, execute and deliver amendments
to the Issuance Certificate pursuant to which the Series B Notes are issued, and the related
Paying Agent Agreement and Dealer Agreement, to provide that the Series B Notes may be
issued in aggregate principal amounts and with a final maturity date consistent with the
terms of this Resolution, and that Series B Notes may be issued for new money purposes, or
refunding purposes at any time before their final maturity date, all as the Authorized Officer
or Officers executing the same shall approve, which approval shall be conclusively
evidenced by the execution of the respective documents.
10. The Authorized Officers, the Secretary, representatives of the University's
General Counsel, and any other appropriate officer of the University are each hereby
authorized to perform all acts and deeds and to execute and deliver all instruments and
documents for and on behalf of the Issuer or the University required by this Resolution or
the documents authorized hereby, or necessary, expedient and proper in connection with the
issuance, sale and delivery of the Notes, from time to time, all as contemplated hereby or in
connection with subsequent elections, approvals or determinations under the Issuance
Certificate or other documents. Any reference to any specified officer of the Issuer or the
University in this Resolution shall include any interim officer occupying such position.
11. All resolutions or parts of resolutions or other proceedings of the Issuer in
conflict herewith be and the same are hereby repealed insofar as such conflict exists.

307



APRIL MEETING, 2006 - APPENDIX

308



MAY MEETING, 2006

Thne University ofAMiJchig an
Ann Arbor
Mayol,19, 2006
T'he Regents convened at 9: 10 a.m. in the Dining Room C, Fairlane Center South,
University of Micigan-Dearbon.  Present were President Coleman and Regents
Brandon, Deitch, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and White. Also
present Were Vice President and Secretary Churchill, Vice President Forrest, Interim
Provost Gramlich, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Keich, Vice
President Krislov, Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice
President Rudgers, Executive Vice President Slottow, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order and said how pleased the Board was
to be meeting on the Dearbor campus. She commented on the selection of Professor
Sean Morrson as "Michiganian of the Year" by the Detroit News, and made note of the
deaths of two emeritus faculty members, Harm Buning and Herbert D, Doan.
President Coleman announced that a proposal for renovating Michigan Stadium
had been added to the agenda as a supplemental item and the previously scheduled
update on benefits would be postponed until the June meeting. Professor Coleman then
acknowledged Professor Edward "Ned" Gramlich's service as interim provost and
executive vice president for academic affairs. She noted that "Ned is a pleasure to work
with because of his quick humor and easy-going nature, even in the midst of very
serious decision-making." She thanked him for his service on behalf of all of the other
executive officers, and called on Regent Newman.
Regent Newman called Provost Gramlich to the podium  and read the following
resolution:
Regents' Resolution
The Regents of'the University of Michigan commend and express
deep- appreciation to Edwdiard M1. Grainnlich asy he completes his termnc as
interim provost and executive vice preside7nt for acadenic a ffairsonMay
31, 2006.
Professor Gramnlich1 has been a memenber of the University of
Michiganjfaculty since 1976, w-ith appoi tmnents in both the Departmnent
of Eco nomnics aned the Ger~aId R. Ford Sch ool of Pu blic Poli cy. A leader
n       feachofis acacdemic honies, between 1983 and 1997, he si ed two
termns as chair of the Departm ent of Econoomics and hi 7o as director of
the Institute of Public Policy Stludies (taheforerunner of the Ford School),
anrd was the foundinrg  dea of the Ford School. Profesor~ Gramici 's
strngco n~itment  to public servic is melete in sthe po itom s e ~as
held in Wasi ingtonz, D. C., includn'rg  deput~ 'and theta act ing direc~tor~ of
the Conlgr~essional Bud'get Office (1986-87) anzd most rcenltly as a
(199 7-2005). Pr~ofessor~ Graim ich 's ability, to combine his academic,309



May Meeting, 2006

expertise with his policy experience has made him a highly valued leader
at the University.
During Professor Gramlich's nine-month tenure as interim
provost, the University has faced significant budgetary challenges. With
a clear focus on the University's academic mission and values, deep
appreciation of good ideas, and openness to new approaches, he has
guided the University of Michigan thougtfully and effectiely. We have
appreciated his commitment to the highest ethical standards, welcomed
his good humor, and been gratefd for his counsel.
As he takes on his new role as special advisor to the president,
we look forward to Professor Gramlich's ongoing contributions to
University life and his understanding of public issues. With respect and
gratitude, the Regents salute Ed ard M. Gramlich and wish him
continued success as a scholar, advisor, and leader in public affairs.
A standing ovation followed, after which Interim Provost Gramlich complimented
the Regents, executive officers, deans, and other leaders for their skill at managing the
University so successfully during the state's financial difficulties of the past several
years. He thanked everyone and noted that it had been "a real pleasure and a great
honor" to have served in this capacity.
Presentation: "The College of Engineering and Computer Science: Defined by
Relevant Experience"
Chancellor Little welcomed the meeting paricipants to the Dearborn campus. He
noted that the Dearborn Campus's College of Engineering and Computer Science is
known around the world for having produced many generations of well-educated
engineers. He listed some of Dean Subrata Sengupta's accomplishments during his 16
years, and called on him to make a presentation about the college.
Dean Sengupta gave an overview of the College of Engineering and Computer
Science, pointing out how the college's program offerings have expanded in recent
years in response to the demands of industries in southeast Michigan as well as national
priorities.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported on the
three agenda items the committee had considered the previous day. The committee first
had received an update from the investment office. The committee next met with Carol
Senneff, director of the Office of University Audits, about the most recent audits,
staffing capabilities, and the FY06 audit plan. The committee also met privately with
Ms. Senneff to inquire whether she and her team were receiving a high level of
cooperation and responsiveness from management, and were assured that she was. The
last session was an update on the FY07 General Fund budget, presented by Interim
Provost Gramlich and Associate Provost Phil Hanlon.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee. Regent Taylor reported
that the committee had received an update on current dean searches from Provost
Gramlich. It had also received a briefing from Associate Vice President Laurita Thomas
about the operations and organization of the University's human resources department.

310



May Meeting, 2006

He noted that the committee is undertaking a review       of compensation policies and
issues to ensure that policies are appropriate and are being followed. The committee is
also reviewing expense accounts for executive officers and their staffs with similar
goals in mind. Associate Vice President Thomas has shared with the committee her
department's key performance indicators; the committee has decided to review key
indicators in depth over time and to benchmark the department's performance against
that of comparable organizations.
Michigan Stadium Expansion and Renovation Project
President Coleman announced that the next item of business would be a
presentation and discussion of a project for the expansion and renovation of Michigan
Stadium. She stated:
Our stadiumi is a treasure. Generations of Michigan alumni, students, faculty, staff and fans
have a stake in it- not just in the modern game-day experience, but also in the proud tradition of
the Big House and Michigan football.
It is precisely because it is so valued that I feel such a deep responsibility to renew its aging
infrastructure and atted attnd to the 80-year-old stadium 's most pressing needs.
As everyone knows, we have been studying these needs and potential solutions for a long
time now. Bill Martin and his staff in the Athletic Department have completed the most
comprehensive planning process I have ever seen undertaken on a university project. They
explored a wide range of options for how we might approach major renovations. They conducted
detailed cost analyses and financial modeling. They commissioned major surveys of fans and
ticket holders to better understand what people most want in the game-day experience, and in any
renovations we might undertake.
Inrfact, we have talked with the public about potential stadium renovations for more than a
year and a half Bill has gone out to large and small groups across the country to discuss possible
changes and gather input for the planning process. So have L. We appreciate the feedback we
heard and the tremendous sense of ownership felt by Michigan fans.
Through it all, we have been clearly described the challenge: To find the best pathi for
renovating thee stadium whil respecting its history and tradition and in a way that maintains the
long-tei-n financial health of the Universit and the Athletic Department.
So finally, after all those months of consideration, Bill and Tim Slottow are ready to bring
forward a final recommendation for your discussion and vote. I am deeply gratefid for the
mountain of good work that has gone into this process, and I am frlly supportive of this proposal
and its vision for ensuring the unique experience of the Big House.
She noted that an action request on the stadium project had been distributed, and
called on Executive Vice President Slottow. Mr. Slottow introduced Athletic Director
Bill Martin to make a presentation on the program for this project.
Mr. Martin thanked      President Coleman     for her support, engagement, and
challenges during the lengthy process leading up to this presentation. He noted that as a
long-time resident of Ann Arbor, he is passionate about the stadium and said that if the
project is approved, he has all intentions of staying and seeing it through. He
recognized the fact that the stadium renovation issue is a very emotional one, but said he
believes that it is the best long-term solution for the challenges presented by the
stadium.

311



May Meeting, 2006

Mr. Martin noted that the stadium infrastructure and press box deficiencies have
been studied extensively, as has the potential market for premium seating areas and
potential revenue they could generate. The first of the giding principles that have been
followed throughout the process was that the project positively impact fanexperience
and safety. He noted that it currently takes 36 minutes to empty the stadium, and the
proposed project will be able to reduce this time to 15-20 minutes. Other principles
were that the project be of appropriate quality; be financially feasible (self-financing);
not decrease existing capacity so that it will remain the country's largestfootball
stadium, while at the same time providing wider seats and aisles and handails; and not
limiting future opportunities for additional expansion or other modifications.
Mr. Martin noted that the action request recommends construction of new
structures with club seating and private suites to providerevenues to offset the capital
costs of stadium renovation. He said that the project is financially feasible and
consistent with maintaining the long-term financial health of the University and the
Athletic Department, it will respect the tradition and character of Michigan Stadium,
and will be of appropriate quality.
He described the project as follows:
There would be new structures on both the west side and east side including a new
elevated concourse on the west side and an expanded elevated concourse with new
concessions and restrooms on the east side. On the west side, site of the current press
box, there would be the addition of club chairback seats, a new press box, and private
suites. On the east side, there would be an expanded elevated concourse with new
concessions and restrooms, an outdoor club seating area and a club lounge on one level,
another level with indoor club seats and outdoor club seats, and aother level with
additional private suites.
The stadium would have wider aisles and seats in the seating bowl, and there
would be new free-stading buildings at the north and south ends for new concession
stands and restrooms. Selected restrooms and concession areas would be renovated, and
new ADA seating would be constructed at the top of the west sideline seating bowl on
the new concourse level.
In summary, the new facility would result in improved concourse circulation on the
east and west side and improved bowl circulation and comfort, with wider aisles nd
seats. There will be new concessions, a significant increase in the number of women's
restrooms, and additional men's restrooms. There will be a 78% increase in ADA
seating, a new press box and new hospitality areas, 83 private suites, 2,700 outdoor club
seats and 480 indoor club seats, and 650 chairback seats. Theestimated project cost is
$226 million.
Mr. Martin reviewed the estimated capacity, project costs, and cash flow. He
noted that current capacity is 107,501 and the capacity of the renovated stadium will be
108,251. About 10% of the estimated project cost, $22.6 million, will be funded from
Athletic Department reserves, yielding a project debt of $203.4 million which will be
financed by the University. Mr. Martin emphasized that projected revenue figures are
very conservative and call for an estimated additional gross revenue in year one of
$14.090 million. Combined with the revenue loss from bench seats ($1.290 million)

312



May Meeting, 2006

and the project debt service ($13.230 million), the net  ual cash flow, not including
any major gifts, would be negative $430,000.
He noted that one option considered to fund stadium renovations had been to add a
surcharge to every ticket, but planners decided against this option in the belief that a
clear market exists for premium seating and that revenues from this seating would
negate the need to add additional costs tofans sitting in the traditional seats.
In summary, Mr. Martin said that the project will result in improved circulation
within the stadium, improved ADA capacity without eliminating prime sideline season
ticket locations, the availability of premium seating which will generate new revenue to
offset project costs, and private support opportunities to further offset project costs.
Over time, the project will provide additional revenue streams that will assist with the
capital needs of all of the department's sports. He emphasized that ensuring the highest
level of facilities and opportuities for all 25 sports teams at the University is one of his
major responsibilities, and he believes that this project will contribute to that goal. He
acnowledede the emotions attached to thestadium renovation issue, but said that he is
committed to it's success.  He commented how much he appreciates President
Coleman's supportand requested the support of the Regents.
Executive Vice President Slottow clarified that the request is only for approval of
the project and appointent of the architect, consistent with the normal practice for
projects over $10 million. If approved, the Board would next review and be asked to
approve the schematic design, and then the final project would come to the Board for a
third time prior to being sent out for bids and award of contracts. Mr. Slottow also
noted that Athletic Department staff have worked very closely with staff in his office in
developing this project. Very detailed cost estimates have been done, and he said he is
quite confident in the existing proposal relative to where we norally are at this stage in
a project.
Mr. Slottow also commented that since Mr. Martin has become athletic director,
the Athletic Department has had seven years of positive operating margins, has raised
funds to be able to invest in significant deferred maintenance needs, and has realized his
first priority, construction of the new Academic Center. He commended M. Martin and
Athletic Department staff for having achieved sufficient financial stability to be able to
undertake such a project.
The floor was then opened for discussion.
Regent Richner inquired why the preferred seat donation couldn't be designated
for this project. Mr. Martin responded that the preferred seat donation had been used to
Regent Deitch noted that the action request calls for a budget of $226 million and
last month's estimate had been $227 million. Mr. Slottow responded that the numbers
are not precise to the exact dollar, and that a more detailed reconciliation and estimate
would be submitted with the schematic design. He also noted that the approximate
$500,000 negative impact on the operating budget noted in Mr. Martin's comments is a
vey conservative estimate, and he is comfortable that it can be absorbed within the

313



May Meeting, 2006

depament's operating budget if it remains when the final figures are determined.
Budget estimates will continue to be refined as final project plans are developed.
Regent Deitch noted that positive cash flow figures are based on assumptions that
suites and club seats would all be sold. He asked, "Is there a set of circumstances under
which you would come back and say, 'Regents, these numbers don't work any more?"'
He said he had been told by experts in stadium construction that there can be a swing of
as much as 30% from concept to working drawings. He inquired, "Assuming that the
difference is 10%, and if interest rates increase from 5% to 6% before bonds are sold, is
there a number that is no longer feasible? Or are you saying to us,... this is going to get
done no matter what the cost is?"
Mr. Martin responded, "You never know what's out there."  If there were
exogenous factors such as another 9/11 event or an oil scare which would cause interest
rates to rise, he said, "You bet I would say, whoa. Let's re-examine this. If an event
were to happen that totally thows off the economics of this project," he said, "I'll be the
first one to raise my hand and say, 'Let's sit down and talk about it."'
Regent Deitch commented that if this were a private sector development and the
Regents were the board of directors of a lending institution, they would acknowledge
that it is an interesting project with a well-regarded developer, but would also want to
see pre-leasing and pre-sales figuresbefore making a financial commitment. Heasked,
"Given that this is going to have a lead time, do you intend before you come back to us
for final approval on the financing to have raised some of the projected $25 million and
to have pre-sold some of the suites or leases? Or will marketing not begin until the
entire project is approved?"
Mr. Martin responded that the department has thought it would be inappropriate to
explore leases on suites or premium seating or other such issues prior to approval by the
Regents. He also commented that prices can always be adjusted, and they should be
adjusted to the market. However, it would not be wise to set prices today for a project
coming on line 4-5 years from now, before final costs have been detemined.
Regent Deitch asked when renovation of Crisler Arena would be commenced,
given that the stadium project will not be concluded until 2010. Mr. Martin responded
that like all other projects, renovation of Crisler Arena is driven by having the resources
available to pay for it. At this point in time, no major donor has been identified for
funding of the Crisler Arena project. He noted that Crisler Arena is not considered to be
a property of the Athletic Department, and priority for its use does not reside with the
department. Therefore, thre have been discussions with central administration about
sharing the costs of renovating this facility. Mr. Slottow responded that renovation of
Crisler Arena is a very high priority, and clarified that all facilities on campus are owned
by the University.
Regent Deitch addressed President Coleman about her belief that it would not be
appropiate for beer or wine to be served in the club seats or suites. He noted that to his
knowledge, there are no other club seats or suites in the country where liquor is not
served, and asked how she envisioned this policy being enforced in the future when the
current board and administration are no longer serving. President Coleman responded
that she cannot speak for future presidents and boards, but that she feels very strongly

314



May Meeting, 2006

about the policy and believes that the board supports it. "As long as I am here," she
said, "there will be no alcohol."
Regent Newman commented that this is really a board decision, and if a future
board decides to allow alcohol in these areas, that would be up to them, as are all other
decisions of this nature. Regent Deitch clarified whether, in this initial phase, if it is
discovered that the no-alcohol policy is limiting sales, "then that will be that." President
Coleman concurred.
Regent Brandon moved approval of the Michigan Stadium Renovation and
Expansion   Project as described    in the Regents Communication, and          authorized
commissioning -   NTB Architecture for its design. Regent Taylor seconded the motion.
Regent White made the following motion:
"Madame President, I move to postpone consideration of tlis action until the June 16, 2006
formnal session of the Board of Regents so that the public has an opportunity to be heard on this
matter.
We have put this in the supplemental agenda. The people of the State of Michigan have duly
elected each member of the Board of Regents. In canying out the duties of this office, matters this
board is scheduled to vote on should be adequately noticed to the public. In principle, when a
public institution intends to vote on projects exceeding $200 million, the public has an interest in
knowing the details of this plan with sufficient notice for comment. Such notice given should not
be the minimum required under the la; but should befit the magnitude of the project. Notice gives
the public an opportunity for the people to be heard. Sufficient notice was not given here.
Evidencing this lack of notice is that the stadium project is not part of our regular agenda, which
is posted on the website. Instead, this project is part of the supplemental agenda, which is not
included anywhere on the website. Further evidence of the lack of notice is the fact that there are
no people signed up to talk about the stadium renovation project as Public Conumments today.
From the hundreds, if not thousands, of emails I have received concerning this project, I must
assume that at least one individual would have signed up to address this Board f adequate notice
had been given.
Although I was not on the Board when the Board of Regents approved the "Halo" stadium
renovation, I was a member of the public who did not have an opportunity to see this project
before it was built. If I had been on the Board then, I would have asked for the kind of public
notice that I am asking for today. At least it was economically feasible to take the "Halo" down.
Once hlxuxy boxes are built, it would be prohibitively expensive to undo such construction.
It cannot be that there is a need to  ove so quickly that this vote need not be properly
noticed. In other words, what is the rush? These are renovations to a football stadium, not the
building of a hospital where a month delay could affect people's lives. The stadiim renovation
will not affect football recruiting,; next year's recruiting class has already been picked. Football
games will not be postponed by a month's delay the football field will be unaffected.
We are a public institution, with a governing board elected by the people. It is sound and
prudent judgment to postpone this vote until the June meeting when eveyone wvill be on notice that
such a vote is coming. Ma'be it is because I am a lawyer, but I truly believe that you cannot be
right on substance if you are wrong on process."
Regent Deitch seconded Regent White's motion, stating he wished to associate
himself with her remarks.
Regent Newman commented that supplemental agenda items are often considered
during the normal course of business at formal meetings and continued:

315



May Meeting, 2006

"This has been no secret. This has been out there. We 've had comments at many meetings
and have received hundreds of emails, both for and against. Most importantly, as to the process,
as Tim Slottow raised earlie ths is only the first step. There are two more bifes of the apple, both
much more substantive than this one. I think until we have a project, a design, a scope, of some
sort that we can really look at and that the public really has an opportunity to see what we're all
looking at, on that one, I completely agree with Regent White. That one really needs to be out
there and people ought to see it and have an opporlunity to comment on it, because that's when
we're talking about putting the shovel in the ground. All we"'re looking for here is a concept and a
budget and whether or" not we go forward. I think people have strong opinions and that they
should continue to express them, both for and against, but I will oppose that motion. "
Regent Brandon      and  Regent Taylor announced        that they   would   associate
themselves with Regent Newman's remarks. Regent Deitch commented that "once this
train leaves the station, unless there is another 9/11, the impetus will be to get this thing
done."
Regent Newman responded that we have never cut off public discussion on this
issue.
President Coleman called for a vote on Regent White's motion to postpone
consideration of this issue until the June 16, 2006 meeting. The motion failed, with
Regents Deitch, McGowan, and White in favor and Regents Brandon, Maynard,
Newman, Richner, and Taylor opposed. Discussion then proceeded on the original
motion to approve the project.
Regent McGowan made the following statement:
I am not a sentimentalist; were I, it would have smifaced in scores of votes taken at the Board
table over the thirteen years I have been supporting recommendations for rapid, significant and
often risky change within this University.
I have every regard for this athletic director, for the president and for the views of my
colleagues. Similarly, I respect those who ask only of me that I talk through with them proposals
for change at the University that are on their way thatoware on their ds resolution at this table.
The plan unveiled this morning calls for a massive restructuring of Michigan Stadium at a
very, very high price. But we will be awash in mone from the long-tennrm leasng of 80-odd suites
and 3,300 club seats, our financial team tells us. Their thoroughness and accuracy throughout my
time on this Board has been admirable -- and completely necessary. They'd best be right again.
TWhfen we set about to spend $230 million to build approximately 1,000 suite seats and 3,000 odd
club seats together with what are gracefidly called fan amenities' - more restrooms, more
concession stands, railings - we damn well better be right.
The new structures atop the bowl at the intersection of Main and State Streets in Ann Arbor
will be gargantuan. Absolutely huge. According to the financial modeling we are not being
shown toda  the- will be brimming with people eager and able to pay hundreds upon hundreds of
dollars - or thousands - per game six or seven times during a year.
What we are going to need even more, though, are our fans sitting on those 100,005 plus
bench seats, generations of people who have been with us through thick and thin, who must
contlinue to pay their large seat licenses for their small stake of s  tadium seating in the shadows.
For this plan to be feasible, they must derive satisfaction in doing their part to help finmd all of our
varsity sports teams - as well as fom Michigan football victories. We will need them to be there
cheering their hearts out for Michigan, now more than ever.

316



May Meeting, 2006

I have tried this vote on time and time again over the months leading up to today's public
unveiling and the immediate decision that has been scheduled for today's agenda in Dearborn. I
cannot make that Yes vote fit.
It's too much money spent on too few people; it ' a value I simply do not share. It is being
unveiled to ourpublic and resolved in one breath; that's a value I do not share. I will vote No.
Regent Deitch made the following comments:
"I have been privileged to be a member of the Board of Regents since 1993. 1 was elected
with my colleague, Regent McGowan. In those 13 )/ years iwe have been presented with over 450
proposals to construct new facilities and renovate existing ones. I, like she, have never voted
against one. In fact, a review of the minutes of those meetings establishes that all of those votes
were unanimous. Given that record, it is unassailable that my personal inclination, as well as the
histitutional inclination of the Regents, is to be supportive of the recommendations of the
ahndministration on capital projects.
However, it is also unassailable that the Regents are elected by the people of the State of
Michigan to be good stewards of the University 's assets and culture. Given that responsibility, it
is incumbent on each of us to vote our conscience when we are presented with a proposal which
any of uts in good faith believe to be deleterious for the University. For me, the proposal to
append huge structures to Michigan Stadium in order to house luxury boxes and so-called club
seats is such a proposal. Accordingly, I will vote no and I would urge my colleagues to join me in
such opposition.
I am not voting no because I think the Big House ought to be frozen in amber and remain
forever the same, and everybody who knows me knows that I love change and that I embrace the
future with enthusiasm. Clearly, there is consensus that Michigan Stadium needs updating to
make it an even more wonderfld venue than it is today. Our devoted football fans deserve better
concessions and more rest rooms. We need more space in good locations and better access for the
handicapped. Lord lknows, I need afew more inches in the seat. We need better facilities for the
media and better entertaining areas for the University, since our football Saturdays play such an
important role in institutional advancement.
I have no doubt that the htxLy box proposal is intended to address all these needs. As
presented, it would in fact, at face, do so. I have no doubt that Mr. Martin has brought it forwvard
because he believes it to be the right answer to the stadium needs. He does a fine job as our
athletic director, and simnilar praise should go to Mr: Stevenson and Mr. Winters and Mir. Parker.
Howevet, in my judgment, the plan would address those needs in a way that would 1) aesthetically
ruin our iconic masteipiece stadium; 2) be financially risky; 3) not be respectfidul of our
University 's traditions and culture; 4) contribute to the escalation of the arms race in college
sports, and 5) and 5) prject an insensitivity to the cuent economic condition of our state and the pain
and anxiety of its people. I say that is too high a price to pay, particularly when there is a viable
alternative that will do no harm and will accomplish the needed improveents easilyily while
allowing us to preserve our reserves without risk.
In order for there to be a fidl record of the matter, please bear with me as I offer some
observations on each point:
Aesthetics: Michigan Stadium is the best football stadium in America. It is an architectural
masterpiece. I have been going there regularly and continuously for over 40 years and never fail
to be awed and say "Wow" when I walk in. For me, the genius of the design is the fact that the
stadium is built deep in the ground on a hillside site. Thus, from the outside the stadium is a
proportionate and subtle structture. It is only when one gets inside that one is overwhehned by its
enormity. Hence, the "Big House. "'
The proposed addition is 425,000 square feet, 175,000 square feet in the west side and
250,000 square feet on the east. The west building will be the equivalent of sx stories high and
eight stories high on the east. These are very, very big buildings and their sheer massiveness will,

317



May Meeting, 2006

In my1PIOI opinio, ovet I elm the exvisting structure. For people 1inside the stadium, in the seats, the
sun wvill not shine vey much, lfal all, taking away part of the Joy of jabeautiful, autumn day in
Ann1 _Arbor  4 Also, as Professor Louis Guenin writes in opposing this plan, the stadium's
architectural greatness is based on its "simpicity, understatement, symmetiy, subterraneanity,
smoothness, openness, and vastness." This plan is the anthesis ofall ofthat.
AlsO of greatI sigfc ance is th efCt is that ti e proposed additio nwill1lik elyprove to be a
discordant intrusion in the daily life of the sIurrounding residential neihborhood to the west,
Where the height limitation is 30feet. While the Uni ersity is not bound by city zoning,1Z and could
do anything w ie decide to do on its property,, we, nevertheless, ought to be respectfil of that
physical environment when, as here, it is possible.
Second this proposal is financially risky. Currently, the projected cost isk$226 million (not
$200 million as told to the A" I Arbor News and the Detroit Neiv) with an equit investment of
$22.7 million of theAthletic Department ys approxim ately $27 million of unrestricted reserves. In
the Athletic Department's presentation to us, after meeting the debt service of over $13 million, the
so-called base casefortheproj'ect woulId lose about $485,000 in thefirst year and grow to a net of
$961, 000 in the tenth year, or a positiv7ereturn oo f0.
The department then presents what it calls its "best case" which has the project makig
$4,062,000 in year one, growing to $5,613,000 in year ten. Yet, even this is a return of no more
than 20 on the most optimistic projection, and not remotely close to the projection Of $14.6
million in thefirst- yewrasreported in the Ann ArborNewvs this past Sunday and the Detroit News
today. Failure to hit any one of the assumptionls thalt supportthe bes-%t case w-ill make the return
less than 2%,or 01, w1orse yet, put the project in the red. In order to hit the base case, President
coleman 's administration witill have to thread a needle as a mis-projection on any one of the risk
factor's 1willcreate afinancial drain. Hecre are the challenlges which need to be over1come:
1. No Construction cost Overruns above $226 million or $227 million. I have been
told by stadium construction andfinancexperts that costs can vaiy as much as
30Q'iromconcpt o W01 10~~~PX
30-rmcnett      oking drawings. Thus, a cost increase of 20%, would take
the project to ovier $2 70 Million,
2  No rise in interest rates above the projected 5%. The Dow dropped 214 points On
Wednesday and another 77 points yesterday on fears of inflation. I think interest
rates ar-e likely to go up!
3. All of the box seats and club seats will have to be leased at 5%,1 above the base
budget. I ask: Is this possible in a troubled economy and for spaces where no
liquor will be allowed? MSU has only leased about 300 of 850 club seats.
4. An extra $3.5 million per year must be raised ove - the ten-year period without
hurting other fundraising. I don "t think our generous donors will support this
program nbecause ofa perception tat the project is sebflf-uding or for a lack of
gravitas, I could be wvrong, but that 's' my,,senlse of things.
No business person being prudent would make an investment of this size based only on "best
case" assumptions. Rather; youwould invest on realistic, achievable projections and we have not
been gi'vensuch projections. This proposition is risky to a degree that merts reectiomN. NOne
Who Considers themnselyesfiscally conservative should in71 goodconscience votefor this proposal.
culureandtraitin.  icig~an has a uniqrue and special cuture. Over 100 years, our1:~'plaeswa ine helets       WeB ha~d  a center~ frm  rnd Raid whobecame prsien o rthe
United~ States  W  ae  icign.W Tcare the champion of~ th wst Acadeialy,:no other
educa~tion for th =omms~on marncrl.
Our foobal Satrday:s' hae    ritualistic beaut that is: ours and ours alon ~e.  The Big

318



May Meeting, 2006

will not support a change that creates a physical stratification that divides that unique community.
I have read each of the hundreds of heartfelt e-mails that have come into us asking us not to add
hluxy boxes to the Big House, as well as the thoughts expressed in the on-line petition circulated
by SaveTheBigHouse.com. These people are important keepers of this aspect of our University
culture and tradition, and I proudly stand with them. Referring to people'sfeelings on this subject
as "emotional " is a put down and is not right.
The escalation of the college sports arms race. Michigan prides itself on being the "leaders
and best   We have been told that "the" are ae all adding boxes and so we have to add hlwuxr
boxes to be "competitive. " I believe that is patently absurd, and not a sound rationale for such an
undertaking.
Ih my opinion, our true and only peer in college football is Notre Dame. Its stadium was
modeled after the Big House.  hen Notre Dame renovated its stadium, its leaders did not add
htxury boxes. It has no plans to do so, having made a decision to eschew professionalism in the
"House that Rockne Built." We should do the same, and send a message to the Ohio States of the
world that Michigan is dferent, and while we love aand support the maize and blue, our
institutional priorities are projects like Mott Children's Hospital, North Quad, the BSRB, the new
School of Public Health building, the new Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy building, and
the new business school building.
In my opinion, the only thing that matters to our athletes is great facilities. We are told that
by "leveraging" this asset, w  will create more rvenuefor newfacilities. I just don't see how
given the risks. What I see is a mortgaging of our future and a despoiling of our institutional
uniquenessfor the benefit of a ve;, very small group ofpeople.
Insensitivity to current economic conditions. I believe symbolism matters. Very large
institutions best express themselves through their actions - as opposed to their words - and this
action screams of insensitivity to the fact that Michigan is going through a wrenching economic
transfonation. The bottom has not yet hit. I don't know what will happen f GM goes ban7krupt.
Nevertheless, unemployment is 7.2%, while the national average is 4.7%. We have lost 21,000
manufacturing jobs since April, 2005.  Other than the independently wealthy with large,
diversified portfolios of liquid assets, everyone in Michigan is at risk. We will come back as a
state in part because of the work being done at this great university. Let's tell the world that we're
focused on creating knowledge and educating the next generation of leaders and innovators for
our state, and not on things that don't seem necessary in a time when challenge and shared
sacrfice should be what we are about. I simply will not support a project where we are spending
at least $226 million to build private facilities for a privileged few when people in the state are
rightfidly worried about how to keep their homes and pay their children's college costs. I do not
care that this project is supposedly self-funded. Members of the legislature will be hard-pressed to
understand that the University needs a larger appropriation when we do a project like this.
Similarly, how will we look our students and their families in the eye and ask for large tuition
increases when we are doing this project? Instead, we should be following the suggestion of
Regent ewman by building a General Fund endowment to mitigate the need for tuition increases.
We ought to start by going to the people who would pay for these boxes and ask for a contribution
to this fund instead. Colleagues, close your eyes and ask yourselves: Is this the right project at
this time? If you want to do this, why don't we wait until Michigan 's turnaround has been
accomplished?
The Alterative. Originally, we were told that there was no alternative to hlxut, boxes in
order to renovate the stadium. Fortunately, there is an altemnative.
We have been presented withn n alternative plan that the president has not chosen to
recommtend. This plan would add seats (keeping the Big House the biggest), widen the seats and
aisles, put in a new press bo put in new concessions and nlmorae rest rooms. It 's cost is projected
at $56 million. Under this plan, f we put in $5.6 of equiy, we will have a deficit because of debt
service, etc. However, we can get back to break even with a surcharge of $6.00 to $Z 7.00 per ticket
and $3.00 to $3.50 pert student ticket. Those s-urcharges can be lowered if we put in more equity

319



May Meeting, 2006

fiom reseres. For example, f we raise the equity to $11.2 million, the surcharge would be cut in
half to $3.00 to $3.50 and $1.50 to $1.75 per student. I know that we have been told that the
boxes will pay for all stadium renovations without cost to the average season ticket holdem; and I
know that we vere told that the surcharges were rejected because we don 't wantto burden the
average fan. But I'll tell you something. Ifind that a little hard to accept because a few years ago
we put in a seat license of $1,000 per ticket, which caused many of our dedicated lovers of
Michigan football to say, "I can't afford this. " So $1,000 was OK? It's worked success ly, it's
helped stabilize the department's finances. But $3.00, $4.00, $6.00 so that the cost offixing
Michigan Stadium and making it modern would be spread among all of us, that suddenly is too
much and we need the revenue firomn these boxes to allow owrselve to have wider aisles, wider
seats, more johns, and more concessions. For miie, like Regent McGowan, thatjust doesn'tfit into
my value system.
I also have hadfinancial models run. And I have to say in making this point that under Ml:
Martin's leadership, the Athletic Depa tnent has been well run and in fact, about a $27 million
reserve has been created in 6 years. That money has been invested wisely, under Mr. Slottow's
guidance, and I have done a projection that said, "If we just keep doing what we 're doing, do this
project, invest the moncy, get the 8% return that we strive forj in ten years we'd have about $100
milln in cash. I say, that would be enough to do eve thig, including getting Crisler Arena off
the gvound, not maiaana, but now. Because it needs to befixed now.
So in conclusion, for all of those reasons, I vote No. As has been said, there will need to be
two more votes before construction starts-to approve the design (which we haven't seen) and to
approve the budget. Therefore, f this passes, I would tge those ofyou who will vote yes to keep
an open mind about later voting no if you come to agree that the design is bad or the price too
high. And finally, if at the end, the project goes forward, I hope that all of my observations will
have been proven untrue and the project is the success that its proponents believe it will be. But I
cannot in good conscience, for the reasons stated, vote yes, now or in the future.
Regent Richner made the following observations:
Over the past several months, I have heard much about the traditions of the University of
Michigan. But to me, one of the traditions of primaty importance is out tradition of excellence. In
everything we do, the University strives to be the leaders and best. Throughout this process I have
considered the views and concerns ranging from those who have had no contact with the
University other than visiting our stadium on a Satu-day afternoon in the fall, to past presidents. I
have also considered the views of our athletic director, Bill Martin, and his experts and
consultants, and of our chief financial office;, Timn Slottow, and his staff all of whom have spent
months and months studying and analyzing every nuance of this and evemy other reasonable
alternative.
After due consideration of all this infornation, I am convinced that this is the responsible
and prudent course for us to take. As has been described, we had significant safety and access
issues and concerns for the accommodation of those with disabilities that we must address. We
also have a problem with rest rooms, dating back to the opening of the stadium 80 yeats ago. In
the book, The Big House, by Robert Soderstrom, which details the legacy of Michigan Stadium
and its creator, Fielding Yost, the author talks about the fact that not all of the 87,00 who
attended the opening game of the stadium were all that enamaored withi the faciliti at the stadimi.
Quoting fom the book, "A second complaint was writteni by a woman, who stated ini no uncertain
terms that the toilet facilities were pitifidly inadequate and great crowds are lined up for an hour
before each game."
This is not a tradition I wish to continue. As brilliant and forward-thinkimg as Fielding H
Yost was, he did not fix this problem. We atre going to fix it. We do niot have the sumiplus funds to
pay for this, and we are not going to put this burden on the backs of the fans in the stands. I am
confdet that the tUniversity can address the aesthetic conces acnd designi improvements b efitting
of the Umiiversity of Michigan 's traditions.

320



May Meeting, 2006

Regent Deitch cited ANotre Dame, but I cite the Rose Bowvl, which is a stadium not unlike our
ow1--a bowl-shaped stadium.  In my opinon, they did an excellent jobof accommodating
enclosed seating ith the design of that stadium. I be/ieve in our athletic director; our chief
fii nancial Iofficer, and our-president, and agree that the project improves Michiga Stadi n1and(is
hinthe b est Interests of theUnivherity.
Regent Maynard stated:
I have spent a lot of time studying this, and cameI to the decision that I ve come to probably
later than my other coeIagures wvho are supporting it. But I am here to support the president and
the athletic directot and the CFO.. I thil k this is the best way to upgrade the sadium. Three of mny
values are there. One is that the name ofthe stadium is notfior sale. There is to be no advertising'(r
w i 7ithin the stadium, and at leastui inder imywatch th ere wtill be no alcoh ol in th e stadium.  The other
part of it is that t ve have heard, not just d ring the past ionths, but really over the last years,
comments on both sides in terms of how you renovate and upgrade the stadium. My hope is that
those comments will continue. I do read eveiy one and I wvill continue to do that. I am glad that
our Mlichigan family cares about the stadium anid that ev en though we disagree, ive all disagree in
the atmosphere of caring for the Michigan Stadium.
Regent Brandon said:
There are three reasons Ifwill be votinggfor the stadium. Reason nmiber one is that I believe
this is the best decision for our coaches, our athletes, and ourfans. I believe that and I have
rationale to back up that belief The secondreason is th at Ilthink this i t cost prudent financial
scenario. I have looked at a bunch of them and I know a little bit about this topic, and I absolutely
am conv1inced that we can pay for the stadium, that the dc-leveraging that occurs over time will
create cash flow. that it will create maximum fundraising opportunities, and that the athletic
dirco    of teJitture will never be in a position vhere they look back-and say, "Whatwere they
thinking?" when they made the decision to iider-leverage one ofthe most aluable assets that we
have in the Athletic Department to generate iincom e to support our athletics.
The third reason I am votingfor this is that I choose to support our athletic director. I think
he has done a phenomenaljob, which has been highlighted today, so I won't repeat that. But I
havev to tell you, hie has tur-ned the Athletic Departm ent around and put us in a positionwh ere we
have the ability to do some of the things that frankly, people wvho wvere in that position before him
wvere unwvilling to have the courage or the guts to do. Because lie isrnning a $70 million
business and he has to do it on a stand-alone basis. He, has to cone up with his Own revenue
streams. WTe keep raising the priceo qf tuitionw, wich has a dramatic impact on his operational
costs. He's got massive facilities to maniageand he'sgot salary compression taking place in the
salaries of coaches that is unbelievable. And to not let him have the tools that hie sayvs lie needs to
do hisjob wvel, I think is w1*rong.
So I choose to support our athletic director, I choose to support our president, I choose to
suipport our chieffinancial officem; and the vast number of people I have talked to about this. I
also have a personal bias. -Ilisten to coaches. Ifsomeone wants to talk to me about the Michigan
tradition, or about the importance and relevance  f these kinds ofdecisions to the athletic
department and the athletes and the ipact on the tradition, I choose to talk to coaches. Thefact
of the natte is the coaches I've t    ~alket  andtepol who ~ are~ exper~icenced  and credibl in
Regent Taylor associated himself with the comments of Regents Maynard,
Richner a$B~nd   rndnan     continedl:
I believ this- isa thrgt thing to dno. I have rea:all of th emails and av f lis~tened to alo
the phone calls etc, anld I rjusti thi - itste rgi thing~ to do for a whole varieto reaons that
have beneprsedb ml~ny comlle   es. For the sake~ oftie  Iwon't  go into!all ofit

321



May Meeting, 2006

I believe that when this project is completed, though, we will be able to say to each and eveny
fan at the Big House, "You are going to be better off than you were before." No matter where you
sit, no matter how much money you have, you ill be better off This will be a better stadium, in
evey respect, for everyone. I believe we can do this in keeping with the history and the honor and
the tradition of the Big House.
I would like to close with this. In business, we often talk about the fact that we have a great
project or a great plan. But the question is, can you successfidly execute that plan? Now for some
who might not k-now it, our athletic director, Bill Martin, does not need thejob. He is a highly,
highly successfid developer. He knows this business. He has done a marvelous job in turning the
department around. He has assembled a wonde~fl team. I am absolttely convinced that Bill
Martin and his team can execute on this plan. And wen it is all said and done, I think it will be to
the greater glory ofthe University ofMichigan. Therefore, I will vote yes.
The vote was then taken on the motion to approve the Michigan Stadium
Renovation and Expansion Project and to authorize commissioning HNTB Architecture
for its design, and it was approved, with Regents Brandon, Maynard, Newman, Richner,
and Taylor in favor and Regents Deitch, McGowan, and White opposed.
Regents Deitch and Taylor left the meeting at this point. The Regents then tured
to the consent agenda.
Consent Agenda
Minutes. Vice President Churchill submitted for approval the minutes of the
meeting of April 21, 2006.
Reports. Executive Vice President Slottow submitted the Investment Report, the
Plant Extension Report, and the Human Resources and Affirmative Action (HRAA)
Report. He noted that the Central Power Plant had been recognized by the EPA for
reducing greenhouse gas emissions through the use of its combined heat and power
co-generation plant; the emissions had been reduced by.6 million metric tons, the
equivalent to removing emissions of 26,500 automobiles.
Litigation Report. Vice President Krislov submitted the Litigation Report.
Research Report.     Vice President Forrest submitted the Report of Projects
Established, April 1-30, 2006.
University of Michigan Health System. No report was submitted.
Division of Student Affairs. No report was submitted.
University   of  Michigan-Dearborn.        Chancellor   Little  highlighted  the
accomplishments of Provost Robert Simpson, who will be stepping down in June after
15 years of service. He also introduced Susan Martin, who is being recommended for
appointment as provost and vice chancellor for academic affairs and professor of
accounting.
University of Michigan-Flint. Chancellor Mestas reported that the University of
Michigan-Flint had been nominated for six Michigan Emmy Awards related to its "I am
UM-Flint" campaign.
Michigan    Student Assembly     Report.     MSA    President Nicole   Stallings
introduced Vice President Justin Hall, who will be assuming leadership of MSA in her



May Meeting, 2006

absence during the summer months. Ms. Stallings then reported on MSA's plans to
strengthen the sense of campus community during the coming year.
Voluntary Support.        Vice President May submitted the Report of Voluntary
Support for April 2006.
Lynn Alandt, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lanethe University of Michigan-Dearborn................... $10,000
American Association for Dental Research, Alexandria, Virginia
for research in the School of Dentistry.................................... 19,200
American Cancer Society, Ic.a,Atlanta, Georgia
for research and other support in the Life Sciences Institute, the Medical School,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................. 98,533
American Heart Association, Inc., Dallas, Texas
for research and other support in the Center for Human Growth and Development,
the Life Sciences Institute, the Medical School, and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.. 395,834
Ann Arbor Symphony Orchestra, Ann Arbor
for the Cardiovascular Center Development Fund.................................... 10,000
Annenberg Foundation, Radnor, Pennsylvania
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy.................................. 500,000
Anonymous Donor
for research in the Medical School........................................... 100,000
Anonymous Donor
392 shares of International Business Machine Corporation common stock for a Charitable
Remainder Unitrust Fund for the ultimate benefit of the University of Michigan-Dearborn.......... 32,240
Anonymous Donor
for support at the University of Michigan....................................... 25,000
Arthritis Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia
for research in the Medical School...................................................  34,333
ASPA Pension Education Research Foundation, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................ 28,000
Norman F. Bach Trust
for the Norman and Jean Bach Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Nursing.......... 50,000
Eli V. Berger, West Bloomfield
for the Dr. Eli V. & Joanna Berger Endowed Orthodontic Student Fellowship Fund
in the School of Dentistry............................................. 10,000
Bergstrom Foundation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
for the Henry A. Bergstrom Child Welfare Law Fund in the Law School........................ 30,000
Frederick W. W. Bolander, Hillsborough, California
1,412 shares of Citrix Systems, Inc., common stock
for the Academic Center in the Department of Athletics.............................56,226
Robert J. Bonner Trust
for the Terry J. and Janice A. Brown Scholarship Fund in the School of Natural Resources
and Environment..................................... 0,000
Borders, Inc., Ann Arbor
for special exhibitions support in the Museum of Art.........................  10,000
Gerald Bright Trust
for the Building Fund in the Law School......................................... 10,000
Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts and for employee matching gifts...... 115,854
Helen A. Brown Estate
for support in the School of Information, in memory of Harlan C. Brown.....................30,748
Bunyan Bryant Foundation within the Raymond James Charitable Endowment Fund, St. Petersburg, Florida
for the Scholarship Fund for Environmental Justice in the School of Natural
Resources and Environment..................................................   20,000
Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York
for support in the School of Education................................................. 11,562
Caterpillar, Inc., Peoria, Illinois
for research  in  the College of Engineering................................................. 20,000
Chisbetts Foundation, Ann Arbor
for scholarships and other support in the School of Music...................................... 10,000
David S. Clyde, Ann Arbor
23 shares of various corporate common stock
for the University Musical Society............................................. 10,088
Collins & Aikman Foundation, Troy
for support in the Transportation Research Institute..................................... 15,000
Compuware Corporation, Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................  10,000

323



May Meeting, 2006

ConocoPhillips Company, Houston, Texas
for support in the College of Engineering...................................... 40,000
Continental Teves, Inc., Auburn Hills
for support in the Transportation Research Institute......................... 60,000
Jack Kent Cooke Foundation, Lansdowne, Virginia
for the Jack Kent Cooke Foundation Community College Fund........................... 288,000
Cranbrook, Bloomfield Hills
forWUOM.................................................... 12,630
Mildred S. Czajkowski Estate
for support in the College of Engineering................................... 42,377
DaimlerChrysler Corporation, Auburn Hills
for research and other support in the College of Engineering and the Transportation Research Institute. 29,750
Detroit Youth Foundation, Detroit
for the Center for Urban Innovation in the School of Social Work............................ 15,360
Edward F. Domino, Ann Arbor
for psychopharmacology research in the Medical School................................. 65,000
Domino's Pizza, Ann Arbor
for the 2006 Carr's Wash for Kids Fund and for the C. S. Mott Children's Hospital Golf Classic
Benefit Fund..............................................................  13,300
Dow Chemical Company, Auburn Hills
for support in the College of Engineering............................... 24,980
DTE Energy Foundation, Detroit
for employee matching gifts.................................25,709
Dykema Gossett PLLC, Ann Abor
for special exhibitions support in the Museum  of Art......................................  10,000
Martin H. Edwards, Ann Arbor
for support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center and
for the Rosalie Edwards Scholarship in the School of Music............................... 20,000
Catherine C. Engle Revocable Trust
2,025 shares of various corporate common stock
for the Sylvia "Duffy" Engle Graduate Student Fellowship Fund in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts.......................................................98,233
Ernst & Young Foundation, New York, New York
for employee matching gifts......................................... 74,608
ExxonMobil Foundation, Irving, Texas
for employee matching gifts.................................................... 172,525
Fashion Footwear Charitable Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center................................ 316,450
Walker E. Fesmire, Flushing
for the Walker E. Fesmire Accounting Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint......... 10,000
E. Malcolm Field, Saginaw
for the E. Malcolm Field Research Fellowship Fund in the Medical School....................... 25,000
Fisher Scientific International, Inc., Hampton, New Hampshire
for the Center for Research in Learning and Teaching..................................... 25,000
Edsel B. Ford II, Grosse Pointe Farms
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane the University of Michigan-Dearborn.................... 14,740
Ford Foundation, New York, New York
for support at the University of Michigan-Dearborn.............................  100,000
Ford Motor Company, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane the University of Michigan-Dearborn..................... 17,760
William and Martha Ford Fund, Dearborn
for the Henry Ford Estate at the University of Michigan-Dearborn............................ 10,000
Richard L. Frank, Washington, D. C.
for the Richard L. and Beth S. Frank Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........ 10,000
Freed Family Foundation, Palatine, Illinois
for the Student Publication Building Renovation Fund..................................... 15,000
GE Foundation, Fairfield, Connecticut
for employee matching gifts.....................................................  63,208
Byron Gerson, Franklin
for the Cardiovascular Center Development Fund..................................... 10,000
Gary D. Giller, Columbus, Ohio
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................. 10,000
Rosalie and Edward Ginsberg Philanthropic Fund of the Jewish Community Federation of
Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio
for the Rosalie Ginsberg Fund for University Service...................................... 300,000
William A. Groening, Jr., Delray Beach, Florida
1,000 shares of Dow Chemical stock
for the William and Haven Groening Charitable Gift Annuity for the ultimate benefit
ofthe Law School................................................................... 42,740

324



May Meeting, 2006

James P. Hackett, Grand Rapids
for the Lee C. Bollinger Award in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................... 10,000
William and Valerie Hall Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
for support in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business.................................. 25,000
Martha L. Hammel, Auburn Hills
for the Martha and Ernest Hammel Graduate Student Research Fund in the Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies...........................................  10,000
David Handleman, Bloomfield Hills
11,450 shares of Handleman Company common stock
for the Marion and David Handleman Professorship in Vascular Surgery in the Medical School,
in memory of Marion H. Handleman.................................... 99,787
William Randolph Hearst Foundation, New York, New York
for the William Randolph Hearst Endowed Scholarship Fund in the Law School................. 150,000
Karen Herman, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Herman Faculty Fellows Fund in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts........... 35,000
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, Menlo Park, California
for support at the University of Michigan...................................  185,000
David A. Hughes, Omaha, Nebraska
for the Helen and Marvin M. Kirsh Professorship in the Medical School......................... 10,000
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for research and other support in the College of Engineering..................................  94,700
Intel Foundation, Hillsboro, Oregon
for support in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts...................58,705
Steven and Katherine Jacob Philanthropic Fund of the United Jewish Foundation, Bloomfield Hills
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics.............................. 21,000
Michael J. Jandernoa, Grand Rapids
19,464 shares of Perrigo Company common stock
for the Building Project Fund in the Stephen M. Ross School of Business, and
for the Building Fund in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy............................ 305,001
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for research in the Institute for Social Research and the School of Public Health.............. 1,007,577
Juvenile Diabetes Foundation International, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School........................................ 295,741
W. K. Kellogg Foundation, Battle Creek
for research and other support in the Institute for Social Research and the School
of Education and for employee matching gifts....................................... 105,232
Evelyn S. Kennedy Trust
640 units of Thomburg International Value mutual fund for the Counseling and Program
Fund in the Center for the Education ofWomen................................ 15,866
Kiwanis of Michigan Foundation, Petoskey
for the Child and Family Life Fund............................................... 29,704
Frank G. Klein, Newtown Square, Pennsylvania
3,112 shares of various corporate common stock for the Dr. Frank G. Klein Charitable Gift Annuity
for the ultimate benefit of scholarships at the University of Michigan......................... 99,403
Michael H. Klein, Bloomfield Hills
for the Michael and Marcia Klein Research Fund and the Klein Fund for Lupus Research
in the Medical School...................................................... 125,000
Jerry Kolins, La Jolla, California
for scholarships in the Department of Athletics and for the University Musical Society............. 20,250
Andrew J. Krapohl, Lincoln
272 shares of National City Corporation common stock for the Andrew and Patricia Krapohl
Resident Research Fund in the Medical School and
for the Patricia Averill Krapohl Dean's
Discretionary Fund in the School of Nursing............................................10,133
Larson Realty Group, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning,............... 10,000
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society, White Plains, New York
for research in the Medical School............................................... 100,000
Paul C. Lipschutz Estate
for the Paul C. Lipschutz Endowment Fund in the Medical School........................... 900,000
Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation, Inc., New York, New York
for the Michigan Journalism Fellows Program, Livingston Award for Young Journalists............ 40,625
Gillson Longenbaugh Foundation, Bellaire, Texas
for research in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................................... 210,000
Lumina Foundation for Education, Indianapolis, Indiana
for research in the School of Education....................................... 253,835

325



May Meeting, 2006

Lyondell Chemical Company, Houston, Texas
for support in the Law  School......................................................  10,000
Dee and Fed Lyons Foundation Fund of the Greater Kansas City Community Foundation, Kansas City, Missouri
for the Fred and Dee Lyons Leadership Scholars Program in the College of Pharmacy........... 124,148
Melanie S. McCray Estate
for the University Musical Society........................ 20,000
Beatrice K. McDowell, Akron, Ohio
4,920 shares of Knight Ridder, Inc., common stock for the Building Fund in the Law School......... 305,335
Louis P. McEnderfer Estate
for the Marching Band Enrichment Fund in the School of Music.............................. 50,248
Keith S. McKenzie, Santa Cruz, California
for the KEC  Building Development Fund..................................  10,000
McKinley Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Otto Gago, M.D., Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School................ 10,000
Ronald D. and Regina C. McNeil Foundation, Inc., Lake Zurich, Illinois
for the Ronald D. McNeil Endowed Football Scholarship Fund and other support
in the Department of Athletics.............................................. 30,000
Edwin E. Meader, Kalamazoo
for the Papyrology Endowment Fund.................................... 10,000
Medtronic Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota
for the Medtronic Fellowship in the College of Engineering................................. 50,000
Meijer, Inc., Grand Rapids
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts............................. 20,000
Merck & Company, Inc., Whitehouse Station, New Jersey
for support in the Medical School........................................... 100,000
Carole N. Metzger, Chevy Chase, Maryland
480 shares of JPMorgan Chase & Company common stock for the Carole and David Metzger
Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.............................20,177
Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington
for research in the College of Engineering and for employee matching gifts..................... 16,907
Norman S. Miller, East Lansing
for the Norman S. Miller Charitable Gift Annuity, for the ultimate benefit of the School of Art
and Design and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts................................ 21,400
Jeffrey H. Miro, Bloomfield Hills
for research and other support in the Comprehensive Cancer Center.......................... 10,100
Kenneth H. Mortenson New York, New York
3,200 shares of various corporate common stock for the Champions Center Fund
in the Department of Athletics..................................................... 142,942
Ruth Mott Foundation, Flint
for WFUM........................................................    80,265
Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, Inc., Tucson, Arizona
for research in the Medical School..............................................  11,250
Werner and Ruth Nartel Foundation, Flint
for the Nartel Family Scholarship Fund at the University of Michigan-Flint....................... 20,000
National Alliance for Research on Schizophrenia & Depression, Great Neck, New York
for research in the Institute for Research on Women and Gender, and the Medical School.......... 80,000
National Foundation March of Dimes, Traverse City
for research in the Medical School................................................... 37,500
National Hemophilia Foundation, New York, New York
for research and other support in the Life Sciences Institute.................................. 28,000
National Multiple Sclerosis Society, New York, New York
for research in the Medical School................................... 77,548
Casper Y. Offutt, Jr., Atherton, California
Six shares of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., common stock for the Offutt Family Presidential
Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts........................ 553,200
Patricia S. Moore Estate
for the Patricia Skelly Moore Endowed Scholarship Fund in the School of Nursing................. 50,000
Pfizer Foundation, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts................................................. 25,225
Pfizer Incorporated, Ann Arbor
for research and other support in the College of Pharmacy, the Medical School,
and the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts....................................... 41,346
John D. Pfluke, Rochester, New York
for the John D. Pfluke Charitable Gift Annuity, for the ultimate benefit of A. Alfred
Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning, and the Michigan Marching Band.......... 100,000
Pharmacia Matching Gift, Princeton, New Jersey
for employee matching gifts.......................12,153
Philip H. Power, Ann Arbor
for support in the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy...................................... 20,000

326



May Meeting, 2006

Richard L, Prager, Ann Arbor
for the Otto Galgo, M. D. Professorship in Cardiac Surgery in the Medical School....,,......  10,000
Anthony F. Randazzo, Grosse Pointe
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art....................................... 50,000
Redico, LLC, Soutlifield
for suppo in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................ 10,000
Redlich Horwitz Foundation, Saddle River, New Jersey
for the Redlich-Horwitz Commrnunity Scholars Fund in the College of L~iterature, Science,
anid the Arts.......................................................... 100,000
Richard D. Richardson, Chadds Ford, Pennsylvania
for support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,.......,.........,...,..  10,000
Mlargaret A. Riecker, Midland
25,228 shared of Dow Chemical Company common stock for the Margaret and John Riecker
Charitable Remainder Unitrust Fund,
for the ultimate benefit of the Margaret Ann and John E. Riecker Fellowships i )the
Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy................................1,059,089
Robertson Brothers Company, Bloomfield Hills
for support in the A, Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning..............10,000
John 0. Robertson, Palm Bay, Florida
for the John 0. Robertson Charitable Gift Annuity, for tie ultimate benefit of the Ruth Lobdell
Scholarship Fund.......................                      2.0,000
Marjorie W. Ruff Trust
for support in the Law School..........__..........................................2 5, 00 0
Samsufng Electronics Company, LTD, Hwasung-City, South Korea
for research in tie College of Engineering..............................__...........35,000
Peter A. Schweitzer, Grosse Pointe FIa-rms
1,698 shares of various corporate common stock for the Schweitzer Student-Athlete Scholars
Fund in the Department of Athletics, and for the Schweitzer Collegiate Scholarship Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and thie Arts.................................... 140,559
Donald R, Shepherd, Rancho Santa Fe, California
5,000 shares of Mills Corporation common stock for the Donald R. Shepherd Charitable
Remainder Unitrust Fund, for the ultimate benefit of the Department of Athletics,
and the School of Music......_._.......................-......................158,600
Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, New York, New York
for fellowships and other support in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts......... 90,000
Barbara M. Sloat Revocable Living Trust
for support in the School of Music.................................................10,000
Sonnienseheinl, Nath &, Rosenthal, Chicrago, Illinois
for support in the Law School in memory of Roge.....................55,000
Spencer Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for support in the School of Education.......................................182,100
Elmer and Sylvia Sramek Charitable Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
for research in the Medical School............................................8 4,365
Herbert Strathier, Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning..............10,000
Taitech, Inc., Dayton, Ohio
for support in the College of Engineering........................................12,000
Taubman Company, Inc., Bloomfield Hills
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architc~ture and Urban Planning.................. 10,000
Doris H. Terwilliger Trust
400 shares of Interational Business Machines Corporation conitfmmon stock rand
3,199 units of Vanguard Growvth mutual fnds for the D & K Terwilliger Endowed Scholarship Fund
for Women in Science in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...-...........2,,,,,.2021,9233
Timken Company, Canton, Ohio
for the Henry Ford Estate at Fair Lane for the University of Michigan-Dearbon............33,700
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc., Torrance, California
for the Toyota MBA Fellowvship Fund in the Stephen Mil. Ross School of Business.....11,000
TRW Automotive Worldwide Sector, Clesveland, Ohio
fobr support in the TrnsporationResearc  nttue....................2                     0
Unite~d Audit Sy~lstems, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio
for the C. S.:M-ott Children'ls Hospit al, Golf Classic 'Benefit:F~und..............1,0
Unity Semionductor Corporation, Slunnyvale, California
for eserchin he ollge f Eginerig................................40,000
University of Michtigan Club of Greater Chlicago, Chicago, Iljilinoi
forth:e U~niversit of Michigan Cllub of Chic:ago: Sholarship: Funidr:,,,,..,...:..,..,...,,,,,,  10: r,000
Ann T. Van, HiRosevlc~t Ann Arbo
1,44~4 shares of Merck &: Company commaon stock for the Kelsey' M~useum E-xpans~ion Project....... 50I,03S
VictorFounda~tion, Auburnln Hills
for support in the A.!Alfrd ad~ubman:Col~lege ofArhitecture: anld Ur'ban Plann~ing.;............. 1 0:,000

3 217



May Meeting, 2006

Walbridge Aldinger Company, Detroit
for support in the A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban Planning................ 10,000
Donald D. Walker, Bloomfield Hills
650 shares of Intel Corporation common stock for the Computer Science and
Engineering Building Construction Fund in the College of Engineering.......................   25,129
Horn-Lay Wang, Canton
for the Horn-Lay Wang Endowed Collegiate Professorship in the School of Dentistry............... 20,000
Wayne and Joan Webber Foundation, Clinton Township
for research in the Medical School................................................... 64,000
Weill Family Fund of the Ayco Charitable Foundation, Clifton Park, New York
for the Joan and and nford I. Weill Endowed Deanship Fund in the Gerald R. Ford
School of Public Policy............................................. 2,000,000
Ronald N. Weiser, Ann Arbor
for the 2006 Carr's Wash for Kids Fund, and for the IMAP Program in the Stephen M. Ross
School of Business........................................................  27,500
Whitman Family Foundation, Ann Arbor
for the Building Project Fund in the Museum of Art, and for the University Musical Society......... 17,000
Joyce E. Whitney Fund of the Community Foundation of Central Illinois, Peoria, Illinois \
for the Joyce E. Whitney Endowed Piano Scholarship Fund in the School of Music................ 25,000
Joel S. Williams, Marietta, Georgia
for the Marilyn Mason-William Steinhoff Scholarship Fund in the School of Music............. 10,000
Joan D. Willson Trust
for the J. Robert Willson Professorship in Obstetrics in the Medical School...................... 10,000
Bruce Zenkel, White Plains, New York
for the Zenkel Family Fund, and for the Zenkel Presidential Endowed Scholarship Fund
in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts...................................  10,850
Zenkel Foundation, White Plains, New York
for the Zenkel Presidential Endowed Scholarship Fund in the College of Literature, Science,
and  the  Arts................................................................40,000
David G. Zick, Bloomfield Hills
for the David G. Zick Scholarship Endowment Fund, the Francine Zick Student Research Fund,
the Alumni Scholarship for Excellence, and other support at the University of Michigan-Flint........ 25,500
Additional gifts ranging from     $5,000 to $9,999 in value were received from        the
following donors.

Gordon L. Amidon, Ann Arbor
Ann Arbor Automotive Automtieu Group ELC, LLC, Ann
Arbor
Anonymous Donor
Anonymous Donor
Apple Computer, Inc., Ann Arbor
Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Roseland, New Jersey
Robert F. Barnett III, Chicago, Illinois
Beckman Coulter, Inc., Fullerton, California
Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas
Berbee Information Networks, Madison, Wisconsin
Jack L. Berman, Los Angeles, California
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Michigan, Detroit
Brentlinger Foundation, Cleveland, Ohio
Briarwood Mall, Arlington, Virginia
John A. Campbell, Los Angeles, California
Jeffrey E. Cappo, Morristown, Tennessee
Kyle A. Carr, Suttons Bay
E. Follett Carter, Lupton
David L. Chambers III, White River Junction, Vermont
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank Charitable Trust,
Flint
Paul E. Clancy, Bloomfield Hills
Comcast Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Conrad Charitable Foundation, Northville
Margaret Farmer Cook, Chelsea
Dade Behring, Inc., Deerfield, Illinois

Deutsche Bank Americas Foundation, Princeton, New
Jersey
Diabetes Research & Education Foundation,
Bridgewater, New Jersey
Jim Donahey, Ann Arbor
Eastman Chemical Company, Kingsport, Tennessee
Epilepsy Foundation of America, Landover, Maryland
Timothy J. Faber, New Albany, Ohio
Albert A. Folop Trust
Fontanesi and Kann Company, Oak Park
William and Lisa Ford Foundation, Dearborn
Foundation for Creativity in Dispute Resolution, Inc.,
Palo Alto, California
Jeffrey B. Gelman, Hope Sound, Florida
Georgia-Pacific Corporation Atlanta Division, Atlanta,
Georgia
Goldberg Kohn Bell Black Rosenbloom & Moritz
Foundation, Chicago, Illinois
Susan Goldberg, San Jose, California
Robert T. Goldman, West Bloomfield
Kenneth C. Hamister Trust
Joan E. Herlitz, Bloomfield Hills
Carl W. Herstein, Ann Arbor
Hodges Imported Cars, Inc., Femdale
Horizon Health Center Limited Partnership, Southfield
Jed J. Jacobson, Ann Arbor
Michael T. Jenkins, Hingham, Massachusetts

328



May Meeting, 2006

Albert Kahn Associates Inc, Inc., Detroit
Jeremiah Kaplan Foundation, New York, New York
Kellogg Company, Battle Creek
Lance E. Kesselring, Ann Arbor
Key Safety Systems, Inc., Sterling Heights
Katherine L. Kimbrough, Grand Blanc
Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates P.C., New York, New
York
Joel E. Krischer, Beverly Hills, California
Andrew J. Lansing, Chicago, Illinois
Jill Latta, Ann Arbor
Barbara Abramoff Levy, New Cente, Newton Center, Massachusetts
Kenneth W. Levy-Church, Ann Arbor
Jean C. Lutterman, Bethesda, Maryland
Macomber Family Fund of the Fidelity Investments
Charitable Gift Fund, Boston, Massachusetts
Masco Corporation, Taylor
Sarah H. McClure, Bloomfield Hills
McKeen & Associates, Detroit
Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee
David J. Metzger, Chevy Chase, Maryland
Stephanie and Jared Miller Fund of the Joseph
and Florence Mandel Family Foundation, Cleveland,
Ohio
David Moscow-Linda Moscow Foundation, Chicago,
Illinois
Cruse W. Moss, Ann Arbor
Myogen, Inc., Westminster, Colorado

David R. Nelson Trust
Neuropsychoanalysis Foundation, New York, New York
New England Foundation for the Arts, Inc., Boston,
Massachusetts
William P. O'Neill, Washington, D. C.
AI Pennywitt, Manchester
Quicken Loans, Livonia
Radiological Society of North America R & E, Chicago,
Illinois
Kevin A. Russell, Wilmette, Illinois
Shell Oil Company Foundation, Houston, Texas
Rollin M. Smith Trust
John M. Snodgrass, An Arbor
State Farm Companies Foundation, Bloomington,
Illinois
Stephen B. Perry Living Trust
Stryker Orthopaedics, Mahwah, New Jersey
Sullivan, Ward, Asher & Patton P.C., Southfield
Tenneco Automotive, Lake Forest, Illinois
Stephen G. Tomlinson, Rowayton, Connecticut
Tower Automotive, Novi
Tuchman Family Fund of the Jewish Communal Fund,
New York, New York
A. Alan Turfe, Dearborn Heights
Stacy R. Weissman Revocable Living Trust
Whirlpool Foundation, Benton Harbor
Wright Medical Technology, Inc, Inc., Arlington, Virginia
Donald J. Wurtzel, Ann Arbor

The following non-monetary gifts-in-kind were received:
Apple Computer, Inc., Ann Arbor
16 Intel processor iMacs for the College of Engineering
Intel Corporation, Hillsboro, Oregon
Desktop computers and servers for the College of Engineering
Sun Microsystems, Inc., Southfield
Twelve Sun Ultra 20 workstations and various other equipment for the College of Engineering
Personnel Actions and Personnel Reports.       Provost Gramlich submitted a
number of personnel actions and reports. He noted that the annual recommendations for
promotion and tenure were being submitted for approval. He noted that 170 of the 185
tenure cases submitted to the provost had been approved, with 85 of these involving the
new granting of tenure, and that each recommendation represents an extraordinarily
accomplished individual.
Provost Gramlich also highlighted recommendations for David Munson as dean of
the College of Engineering; John King as vice provost for information; and Olivia Frost,
recommended for appointment as interim dean of the School of Information, replacing
John King.
Executive Vice President Kelch commented on the faculty promotion and tenure
recommendations in the Medical School. He highlighted the records of Dr. Gary Fisher,
recommended for promotion to professor of dermatology; Dr. Alexandra Stem, being
promoted to associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and associate professor in
the Program in American Culture; Dr. Wendy Wall, clinical professor of surgery; Dr.
Thomas Wilson, recommended for promotion to associate professor of pathology, with
tenure; and Dr. J. Stuart Wolf, Jr., recommended for promotion to professor of urology,
with tenure.

329



May Meeting, 2006

Chancellor Mestas observed that the recommendations speak for themselves, and
Chancellor Little commented on the extreme seriousness with which the promotion and
tenure process is carried out on the Dearborn campus.
RECOMMENDED PROMOTIONS TO TE RANKS
OF PROFESSOR AND ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR
Effective September 1, 2006, unless otherise noted
With tenure, unless otherwise noted
Abelson, James L., Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School
Anderson, Jan-Henrik, Associate Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design
Anderson, Paul A., Associate Professor of American Culture and Associate Professor of Afroamerican
and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Atzmon, Michael, Professor of Nuclear Engineering and Radiological Sciences, with tenure, and
Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Barber, Jennifer S., Associate Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Research Associate Professor in the Survey Research Center and Population Studies Center,
Institute for Social Research
Bardwell, James, Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and Associate Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical
School
Barr, Michael S., Professor of Law, Law School
Berofsky, Aaron, Associate Professor of Music (String Instruments), School of Music
Blackstone, Jerry O., Professor of Music (Conducting), School of Music
Blow, Frederic C., Professor of Psychiatry, Medical School
Boccaccini, Gabriel, Professor of Early Christianity, College of Literature, Science, and theArts
Bonner, Michael D., Professor of Medieval Islamic History, with tenure, and Professor of History,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Borquez, Julio L., Associate Professor of Political Science, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters
Botti, Susan, Associate Professor of Music (Composition), School of Music
Brader, Ted, Associate Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Brown, Daniel, Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural Resources and
Environment
Burant, Charles, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Molecular and Integrative
Physiology, without tenure, Medical School
Campbell, Scott D., Associate Professor of Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture
and Urban Planning
Carlos, Ruth C., Associate Professor of Radiology, Medical School
Carlson, Heather A., Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, with tenure, College of Pharmacy, and
Associate Professor of Chemistry, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Castro, Maria C. Cruz Da Silva, Associate Professor of Geological Sciences, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Chatters, Linda M., Professor of Social Work, without tenure, School of Social Work
Chen, Peter M., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering
Chen, Clement C., Associate Professor of Accounting, UM-Flint School of Management
Chervin, Ronald D., Professor of Neurology, Medical School
Clifford, John H., Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearbor College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters
Currie, William, Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural Resources
and Environment
Custer, Joseph R., Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Das, Suman, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
Davis, Elizabeth A., Associate Professor of Education, School of Education
Davis, Matthew M., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, with tenure, Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, and Associate Professor of Public
Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy
Deldin, Patricia J., Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Denver, Rober J., Professor of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, with tenure, and
Professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and
the Arts

330



May Meeting, 2006

Duckett, Colin S., Associate Professor of Pathology, with teure, and Associate Professor of Internal
Medicine, without tenure, Medical School
Eliav, Yaron Z., Associate Professor of Rabbinic Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ellis, John S., Associate Professor of Music (Piano), School of Music
Everett, Walter T., Professor of Music (Music Theory), School of Music
Falk, Michael Lawrence, Associate Professor of Materials Science and Engineering, College of
Engineering
Fenner, Dee E., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Ferris, Daniel P., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, with tenure, Division of Kinesiology, and Associate
Professor of Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Fisher, Gary J., Professor of Dermatology, Medical School
Flynn, Michael P., Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering
Forsdyke, Sara L., Associate Professor of Greek and Latin, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Franz, Michael G., Associate Professor of Surgery, Medical School
Freedman, Eric G., Professor of Psychology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Freeman, Lee A., Associate Professor of ManagementInformation Systems, UM-Dearbom School of
Management
Garikipati, Krishnakumar R., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
Geva, Eitan, Associate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Gianchandani, Yogesh B., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, with tenure, and
Professor of Mechanical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Graham-Bermann, Sandra A., Professor of Psychology, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies,
without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Green, Lee A., Professor of Family Medicine,cine, al School
Grosh, Karl, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Biomedical Engineering,
without tenure, College of Engineering
Haefner, Hope K., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Hagen, Gottfried J., Associate Professor of Turkish Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Han, Lixing, Associate Professor of Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Hilton-Watson, Matthew A., AssociateProfessor of Foreign Languages, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Sciences
Hollister, Scott J., Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, and Professor of Mechanical
Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, and Associate Professor of Surgery, with
tenure, Medical School
Holzman, Lawrence B., Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Hong, Oi-Saeng, Associate Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing
Horowitz, Jeffrey F., Associate Professor of Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology
Hu, Jan Ching-Chun, Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry
Huffnagle, Gary B., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Professor of Microbiology and
Immunology, without tenure, Medical School
Hughes, Holly, Associate Professor of Art and Design, with tenure, School of Art and Design, and
Associate Professor of Theatre and Drama, without tenure, School of Music
Jackson, David Lee, Associate Professor of Music (Winds and Percussion), School of Music
Jacobsen, Carol S., Professor of Art and Design, with tenure, School of Art and Design, and Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Joyce, James M., Professor of Philosophy, with tenure, and Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College
of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kandogan, Yener, Associate Professor of Business Economics, UM-Flint School of Management
Katz, Steven J., Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Health
Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health
Keane, Edward Webb, Jr., Professor of Anthropology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
King, Philip D., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School
Krebsbach, Paul Hugo, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Krebs, Angela S., Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters
Kurabayashi, Katsuo, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate
Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, without tenure, College of Engineering
Kurashige, Scott T., Associate Professor of American Culture and Associate Professor of History, College
of Literature, Science, and theArts
Kwak, Nojin, Associate Professor of Communication Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Kwok, Roland P., Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology
Langa, Kenneth M., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School

331



May Meeting, 2006

Lantz, Paula M., Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health, and Research
Professor, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research
Lassiter, Matthew D., Associate Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Lee, Cheryl T., Associate Professor of Urology, Medical School
Lehavy, Reuven, Associate Professor of Accounting, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Lemos, Maria Carmen, Associate Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural
Resources and Environment
Levine, Jonathan, Professor of Urban Planning, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning
Li, Lydia W., Associate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work
Liu, Mingyan, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering
Lorenzon, Wolfgang B., Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Luera, Gail R., Associate Professor of Education, UM-Dearborn School of Education
Lukacs, Nicholas W., Professor of Pathology, Medical School
Lutzker, Adam, Associate Professor of Economics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Mahlke, Scott, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering
MacDougald, Ormond A., Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, with tenure, and Professor
of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School
Mapp, Anna K., Associate Professor of Chemistry, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the
Arts, and Associate Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy
Maren, Stephen A., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Markov, Igor, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering
Martyn, Kristy, Associate Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing
Matzger, Adam J., Associate Professor of Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Assistant Professor of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, College of Engineering
Mei, Chunhui (Carole), Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, UM-Dearbom College of
Engineering and Computer Science
Meiners, Jens-Christian D., Associate Professor of Physics and Associate Research Professor in
Biophysics Research Division, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Moghaddam, Mahta, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of
Engineering
Moore, Bethany B., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Mortazawi, Amir, Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering
Mortensen, Richard M., Associate Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, with tenure
Mycek, Mary-Ann, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, College of Engineering
Myers, MartinG., Jr., Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure, Medical School
Nevett, Lisa C., Associate Professor of Classical Studies and Associate Professor of the History of Art,
College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Nguyen, Clark T. C., Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering
Nichols, Thomas, Associate Professor of Biostatistics, School of Public Health
Nkanga, Mbala D., Associate Professor (Theatre and Drama), with tenure, School of Music, and
Associate Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, without tenure, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Noll, Douglas C., Professor of Radiology, without tenure, Medical School
Nor, Jacques Eduardo, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, School of Dentistry, and Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Nosrat, Christopher Amir, Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry
Opipari, Anthony W., Jr.,Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Parent, Jack M., Associate Professor of Neurology, Medical School
Parker, Shandowyn, Associate Professor of Health Education, UM-Flint School of Health Professions and
Studies
Parra-Montesinos, Gustavo, Associate Professor of Civil and Environmental Engineering, College of
Engineering
Parson, Edward A., Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural Resources and
Environment
Perfecto, Ivette, Professor of Natural Resources and Environment, School of Natural Resources and
Environment
Pietrykowski, Bruce A., Professor of Economics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
Pipe, Steven W., Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Pohl, Joanne, Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing
Porter, Marianetta, Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design

332



May Meeting, 2006

Primus, Richard A., Professor of Law, Law School
Queen, Robin M., Associate Professor of Germanic Languages and Literatures and Associate Professor of
Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ramaswamy, Sumathi, Professor of History, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Ransom, Scott B., Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, Medical School, and Professor of
Health Management and Policy, without tenure, School of Public Health
Rehemtulla, Alnawaz, Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Professor of Radiology, without
tenure, Medical School, and Professor of Environmental Health Sciences, without tenure, School of
Public Health
Repic, Randall L., Professor of Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Ritchie, Helena Hwu, Associate Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry
Roux, Ana V. Diez, Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health
Rowley, Stephanie J., Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Research Associate Professor, Center for Human Growth and Development
Saint, Sanjay K., Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Sanders, Jerry D., Associate Professor of Biology, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Santamarina, Xiomara A., Associate Professor of English Language and Literature and Associate
Professor of Afroamerican and African Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Saran, Rajiv, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Schatzel, Kim E., Associate Professor of Marketing, UM-Dearbor School of Management
Shah, Priti R., Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Shih, Albert J., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
Shih, Margaret J., Associate Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Silbergleit, Robert, Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Medical School
Simmer, James Patrick, Professor of Dentistry, School of Dentistry
Skerlos, Steven J., Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
Smock, Pamela J., Professor of Sociology, with tenure, and Professor of Women's Studies, without
tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Research Professor in the Population
Studies Center, Institute for Social Research
Stefanopoulou, Anna G., Professor of Mechanical Engineering, College of Engineering
Stem, Alexandra, Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, with tenure, Medical School, and
Associate Professor, Program in American Culture, without tenure, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Sun, Jing, Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, with tenure
Taggar, Sapna V., Associate Professor of Education, UM-Flint School of Education and Human Services
Takayama, Shuichi, Associate Professor of Biomedical Engineering, with tenure, and Associate Professor
of Macromolecular Science and Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering
Tesmer, John J. G., Associate Professor of Pharmacology, Medical School
Turner, Stephen W., Associate Professor of Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Urbaczewski, Andrew, Associate Professor of Management Information Systems, UM-Dearborn School
of Management
Vaziri, Mojtaba, Professor of Physics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences
Vijan, Sandeep, Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Volling, Brenda L., Professor of Psychology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Von Eschen, Penny M., Professor of History and Professor of American Culture, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Wang, Shaomeng, Professor of Internal Medicine, with tenure, Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure,
Medical School, and Professor of Medicinal Chemistry, without tenure, College of Pharmacy
Wilson, Dennis E., Associate Professor of Music (Jazz), School of Music
Wilson, Thomas E., Associate Professor of Pathology, Medical School
Wolf, J. Stuart, Jr., Professor of Urology, Medical School
Yang, Zhenhua, Associate Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health
Yoon, Carolyn, Associate Professor of Marketing, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
Zheng, Lu, Associate Professor of Finance, Stephen M. Ross School of Business
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS
FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE ANI         FULL PROFESSOR RANKS,
WITH TENURE
Effective on the dates indicated
Buchmueller, Thomas, Waldo O. Hildebrand Professor of Risk Management and Insurance, and Professor
of Business Economics and Public Policy, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September 1, 2006
Liu, Yang, Professor of Surgery, Medical School, May 19, 2006

333



May Meeting, 2006

Martin, Susan Work, Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs, Office of the Chancellor, and
Professor of Accounting, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Management, July 1, 2006
Ruffolo, Mary C., from Associate Professor of Social Work, without tenure to Associate Professor of
Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, September 1, 2006
Zhang, Lu, Associate Professor of Finance, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, September 1, 2006
NEW APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS FOR REGULAR ASSOCIATE AND FULL
PROFESSOR RANK, WITHOUTTENURE
Effective June 1, 2006
Shore, Susan E., Associate Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, Medical School
Weller, Kirk E., Associate Professor of Mathematics, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September
1, 2006-August 31, 2009
REAPPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
AND SELECTED ACADEMIC ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Eugene W., Associate Dean, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, July 1, 2006-June 30, 2007
Goebel, Colonel Douglas J., Chair, Air Force Officer Education Program, Military Officer Education
Program, June 15, 2006-June 14, 2007
Hilton, Lt. Colonel Robert Lance, Chair, Army Officer Education Program, June 22, 2007-June 21, 2008
Kaufman, Martin M., Chair, Department of Earth and Resource Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and
Science, July 1, 2006-December 31, 2006
Loveland-Cherry, Carol J., Executive Associate Dean for Academic Affairs, School of Nursing, July 1,
2006-June 30, 2007
Pochoda, Philip, Director, University of Michigan Press, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, September 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
Reilly, Raymond R., Associate Dean, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, July 1, 2006-June 30, 2007
Rose, Homer C., Jr., Assistant Dean for Academic Programs, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate
Studies, September 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
JOINT APPOINTMENTS OR TRANSFERS OF REGULAR ASSOCIATE
OR FULL PROFESSORS AND SELECTED ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
Effective July 1, 2006 -June 30, 2009
Smith, Jonathan, Associate Dean, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters
OTHER PERSONNEL TRANSACTIONS
Effective on the dates indicated
Reappointment to a Collegiate Professorship
Taylor, Robert Joseph, Sheila Feld Collegiate Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work,
September 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
Appointments to Research Professorships
Seibold, James R., Marvin and Betty Danto Research Professor of Connective Tissue Research, Medical
School, May 19, 2006-August 31,2011
Zubieta, Jon-Kar, Phil F. Jenkins Research Professor of Depression, Medical School, May 19,
2006-August 31, 2011
Appointments to Endowed Professorships
Ahn, Hyun-Soo, Sanford R. Robertson Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Faller, Kathleen Coulbom, Marion Elizabeth Blue Professor of Children and Families, School of Social
Work, September 1, 2006-August 31, 2011
Flinn, Jason N., Morris Wellman Faculty Development Assistant Professor of Computer Science and
Engineering, College of Engineering, September 1, 2006-August 31, 2008
Hess, David, Bank One Corporation Assistant Professor of Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, September 1, 2006-August 31, 2007
Russell, Mark W., Aaron Stem Professor of Pediatric Cardiology, Medical School, May 19, 2006-August
31, 2011

334



May Meeting, 2006

Other Transactions
Position of Assistant Dean for Program Support renamed Assistant Dean for Academic Planning and
Policy, Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies, June 1, 2006
Frost, Carolyn O., Interim Dean, School of Information, June 1, 2006
King, John L., Vice Provost for Academic Information, Office of the Provost and Executive Vice
President for Academic Affairs, June 1, 2006-August 31, 2010
McCracken, Peggy S., Associate Dean for Academic Programs and Initiatives, Horace H. Rackham
School of Graduate Studies, August 1, 2006-July 31, 2009
Munson, David C., Jr., Robert J. Vlasic Dean of Engineering, College of Engineering, July 1,
2006-August 31, 2011
Ni, Jun, correction to name of professorship appointment from Shien-Ming (Sam) Wu Collegiate
Professor of Manufacturing to the Shien-Ming (Sam) Wu Collegiate Professor of Manufacturing
Science, College of Engineering, April 1, 2006
Shipan, Charles R., correction to appointment, J. Ira and Nicki Harris Professor of Social Sciences,
Professor of Political Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and
Professor of Public Policy, without tenure, Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, September 1,
2006 (currently J. Ira and Nicki Harris Professor of Social Sciences, and Professor of Political
Science, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts)
Washington, Daniel A., Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs and Director of Minority Services, School of
Music, June 1, 2006-May 31, 2009
Zurey, Captain Edward C., Chair, Naval Officer Education Program, July 1, 2006-June 30, 2008
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
Effective July 1, 2006-June 30, 2008
Advisory Board on Intercollegiate Athletics
Pollock, Max J., Student Representative, vice James C. Wisinski, term expired
Personnel Reports. The following personnel reports were submitted.
ADMIN'ISTRATIVELY APPROVED NEW APPOINTENTS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURERS' EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective May 1-June 30, 2006, unless otherwise indicated
Bomphray, Alistair, M.A., Intermittent Lecturer in English Language and Literature, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts
Christensen, Nels, Ph.D., Intermittent Lecturer in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Cohen, Rachael, B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Cook, Diane M., B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Eash, Tim, B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in English Language and Literature, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts
Ensor, Sarah, B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Lam, Francis, B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Pierce, Joshua R., M.A., Lecturer I in Business Administration, Stephen M. Ross School of Business,
September 1, 2006-April 30, 2007
Walsh, Ryan, B.A., Intermittent Lecturer in English Language and Literature, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED LEAVS OF ABSENCE
GRANTED TO INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRSENTED BY THE LECTURERS'
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective Septembe 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Harris, Jon W., B.S., Lecturer II in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
personal leave

335



May Meeting, 2006

TERMINATIONS OF INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF REPRESENTED BY THE LECTURER'S
EMPLOYEE ORGANIZATION (LEO)
Effective on the dates indicated
Resigned
Brunelle, Marc, Lecturer I in Linguistics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2006
DeSimone, David J., Intermittent Lecturer in Health Sciences and Administration, UM-Flint School of
Health Professions and Studies, December 31, 2005
Disbrow, Jonathan J., Lecturer I in Architecture, A. Alfred Taubman College of Architecture and Urban
Planning, April 30, 2006
Erickson, Margaret E., Lecturer IV in Social Work, School of Social Work, May 5, 2006
Fink, Sue V. W., Lecturer III in Nursing, School of Nursing, May 31, 2006
Fisher, Anne O., Lecturer I in Classical Studies, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30,
2006
Flint, Leroy E., Lecturer II in Computer Science, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, May 31, 2006
Hart, Monica L., Lecturer I in Theatre and Dance, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, April 30, 2006
Jensen, Viviane C., Lecturer IV in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, College of Engineering,
May 31, 2006
Knight, Suzanne, Lecturer I in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, August 31, 2006
Lillevik, Waheeda, Lecturer III in Management, UM-Flint School of Management, August 31, 2006
Matthews, Gerald E., Lecturer I in Africana Studies, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, March 28,
2006
McBurrows, Lydia D. H., Lecturer II in Nursing, School of Nursing, August 31, 2006
Navarro, Juan M. Amau, Lecturer II in Romance Languages and Literatures, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, May 31, 2006
Povolny, Henry R., Lecturer III in Physics, UM-Dearbom College of Arts, Sciences, and Letters, April
30, 2006
Putnam, Michael T., Lecturer I in Germanic Languages and Literatures, College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, April 30, 2006
Stratton, Matthew G., Lecturer I in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, April 30, 2006
Retired
Shure, Patricia B. D., Lecturer IV in Mathematics, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2006
Term Completed
Nanos, John I., Lecturer I in Chemistry, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, April 30, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
NEW APPOINTMENTS OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Knight, Suzanne, M.A., Instructor in English, UM-Flint College of Arts and Sciences, September 1,
2006-May 31, 2009
Lewandowski, Jennifer J., M.D., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 1,
2006-May 31, 2007
Lillevik, Waheeda, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Flint School of Management,
September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS, JOINT APPOINTMENTS, TRANSFERS, OR DISCIPLINE CHANGES
OF REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Anderson, Frank J., from Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Clinical Assistant
Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School, March 9-August 31, 2006
Gerrard, Sonja R., Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, also appointed
Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, October 15, 2005-October
14, 2007
He, Yongqun, Assistant Professor of Laboratory Animal Medicine, also appointed Assistant Professor of
Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, October 15, 2005-October 14, 2007
Horowitz, Jeffrey C., from Clinical Lecturer in Internal Medicine to Assistant Professor of Internal
Medicine, Medical School, April 1, 2006-March 31, 2013

336



May Meeting, 2006

McQuaid, Michael J., Assistant Professor of Information, School of Information also appointed Assistant
Professor of Art and Design, School of Art and Design, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Rosen, Allison B., Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, also appointed Assistant
Professor of Health Management and Policy, School of Public Health, April 1, 2006-August 31,
2008
Rubin, Gayle S., Assistant Professor of Anthropology also appointed Assistant Professor of Comparative
Literature, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Weinberg, Jason B., from Clinical Lecturer in Pediatrics and Communicable Disess to Assistant
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School, April 1,2006-August 31,
2007
ADMINIISTRATIVELY APPROVED
PROMOTIONS OF CLINICAL FACULTY AND PRIMARY RESEARCH SCIENTISTS
Effective on September 1, 2006, unless otherwise indicated
Advincula, Arnold P., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology to Clinical
Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Avidan, Alon Y., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology to Clinical Associate Professor of
Neurology, Medical School
Bailey, Janet E., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology to Clinical Associate Professor of
Radiology, Medical School
Barber, Jennifer S., from Research Assistant Professor, Survey Research Center, Research Assistant
Professor, Population Studies Center, Institute for Social Research, and Assistant Professor of
Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, to Research Associate Professor, Survey
Research Center, Research Associate Professor, Population Studies Center, Institute for Social
Research, and Assistant Professor of Sociology, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts
Bodary, Peter F., from Research Investigator, Medical School, and Lecturer in Kinesiology, Division of
Kinesiology, to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Lecturer in
Kinesiology, Division of Kinesiology
Borgialli, Dominic A., from Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Emergency Medicine, Medical School
Brackbill, Erin L., from Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Clinical Assistant
Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Brader, Ted, from Assistant Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
and Faculty Associate, Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research to Assistant
Professor of Political Science, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and Research Associate
Professor, Center for Political Studies, Institute for Social Research
Bruno, Christina A., from Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences to Clinical Assistant
Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School
Chavey, William E., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Family Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor
of Family Medicine, Medical School
Cheek, Timothy M., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Performing Arts (Voice) to Clinical Associate
Professor of Performing Arts (Voice), School of Music
Cimmino, Vincent M., from Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery to Clinical Professor of Surgery,
Medical School
Conrad, Frederick G., from Associate Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor, Survey
Research Center, School of Public Health
Dontu, Gabriella, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Proessor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Duffy, Sonia A., from Research Investigator, Otorhinolaryngology and Research Investigator, Psychiatry,
to Research Assistant Professor of Otorhinolaryngology and Research Investigator, Psychiatry,
Medical School
Edwards, Jonathan C., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology to Clinical Associate Professor of
Neurology, Medical School
Evans, Simon J., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical
School
Fagerlin, Angela T., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral and
Decision Sciences, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Finn, William G., from Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology to Clinical Professor of Pathology,
Medical School
Fischbach, Peter S., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to
Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Frost, Philip M., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Law to Clinical Professor of Law, Law School

337



May Meeting, 2006

Gianchandani, Roma Y., from Clinical Instructor linic stctooinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Hall, Karen E., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, Medical School
Hartigan, Anne G., from Clinical Instructor in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation to Clinical Assistant
Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School
Hirshbein, Laura D., from Clinical Instructor in Psychiatry to Clinical Assistant Professor of Psychiatry,
Medical School
Hoeffner, Ellen G., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology to Clinical Associate Professor of
Radiology, Medical School
Honeyman, Peter, from Research Scientist to Research Professor, School of Information
Jakubowiak, Andrzej J., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Associate
Professor of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Johnson, Timothy D., from Assistant Research Scientist, Biostatistics and Intermittent Lecturer in
Biostatistics to Research Associate Professor, Biostatistics and Intermittent Lecturer in
Biostatistics, School of Public Health
Khanderia, Ujjaini B., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Pharmacy to Clinical Associate Professor of
Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy
Kim, Bhumsoo, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical
School
Krein, Sarah L., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Kripfgans, Oliver D., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical
School
Lantz, Paula M., from Associate Professor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of
Public Health, and Research Associate Professor, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social
Research, to Associate Prossosor of Health Management and Policy, with tenure, School of Public
Health, and Research Professor, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research
Lnu, Sooryanarayana, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical
School
Lucas, David R., from Clinical Associate Professor of Pathology to Clinical Professor of Pathology,
Medical School
Majoros, Istvan J., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine,
Medical School
Marzano, David A., from Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology to Clinical Assistant Professor
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
McCabe, Sean E., from Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor, Substance Abuse Center
McCarthy, John F., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Medical
School
McCrea, Kirk W., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and
Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Meiners, Jens-Christian D., from Assistant Research Scientist to Research Associate Professor,
Biophysics Research Division
Mikol, Daniel D., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Neurology to Clinical Associate Professor of
Neurology, Medical School
Muenzberg, Heike, from Research Investigator, Internal Medicine to Research Assistant Professor,
Internal Medicine, Medical School
Murphy, Susan L., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Geriatric Medicine,
Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Murphy, Terrance P., from Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Clinical
Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Nagesh, Vijaya, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology,
Medical School
Nairus, Theresa M., from Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences to Clinical Assistant
Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School
Normolle, Daniel P., from Research Assistant Professor of Radiation Oncology to Research Associate
Professor, Radiation Oncology, Medical School
Orringer, Kelly A., from Clinical Instructor in Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to Clinical
Assistant Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Pituch, Kenneth J., from Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases to
Clinical Professor of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Medical School
Raisler, Jeanne, from Clinical Assistant Professor of Nursing to Clinical Associate Professor of Nursing,
School of Nursing

338



May Meeting, 2006

Rowley, Stephanie J., from Assistant Research Scientist, Center for Human Growth and Development, to
Research Associate Professor, Center for Human Growth and Development, College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts
Schott, Anne F., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine to Clinical Associate Professor of
Internal Medicine, Medical School
Seng, Julia S. S., from Assistant Research Scientist, Institute for Research on Women and Gender,
Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, and Research Investigator, Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Medical School, to Research Associate Professor, Institute for Research on Women and Gender,
Lecturer in Nursing, School of Nursing, and Research Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, Medical School
Smith, Dylan M., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Behavioral and Decision
Sciences, Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School
Smith-Wheelock, Michael W., from Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences to Clinical
Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School
Smock, Pamela J., from Research Associate Professor to Research Professor, Population Studies Center,
Institute for Social Research
Song, Arleen H., from Clinical Instructor in Obstetrics and Gynecology to Clinical Assistant Professor of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical School
Sreekumar, Arun, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical
School
Sundgren, Pia C. Maly, from Clinical Associate Professor of Radiology to Clinical Professor of
Radiology, Medical School
Vincent, Andrea M., from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Neurology, Medical
School
Wahl, Wendy L., from Clinical Associate Professor of Surgery to Clinical Professor of Surgery, Medical
School
Wang, Timothy S. H., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Dermatology to Clinical Associate Professor
of Dermatology, Medical School
Weadock, William J., from Clinical Assistant Professor of Radiology to Clinical Associate Professor of
Radiology, Medical School
Wei, Jun, from Research Investigator to Research Assistant Professor of Radiology, Medical School
West, Adrienne L., from Clinical Instructor in Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences to Clinical Assistant
Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
EMERITUS/A FACULTY REAPPOINTMENTS
Effectivee on  dates indicated
Barr, Mason, Jr., Professor Emeritus of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, Professor Emeritus of
Teratology, Department of Pathology, and Professor Emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
Medical School, July 1, 2005-June 30, 2007
Bartlett, Robert H., Professor Emeritus of Surgery, Medical School, July 1, 2006-August 31, 2007
Koepke, George, Professor Emeritus of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, July 1,
2005-June 30, 2006
Port, Friedrich K., Professor Emeritus of Internal Medicine, Medical School, and Professor Emeritus of
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, March 1, 2006-February 28, 2007
ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED
LEAVES OF ABSENCE GRANTED TO REGULAR INSTRUCTIONAL STAFF
Effective on the dates indicated
Ashford, Susan J., Michael and Susan Jandenoa Professor of Business Administration and Professor of
Human Resource Management and Organizational Behavior, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School
of Business, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Bradley, Robert M., Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, Department of Biologic and Materials Sciences,
School of Dentistry, and Professor of Molecu and Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, without tenure,
Medical School, sabbatical leave, July 1-August 31, 2005
Caldwell, Cleopatra H., Associate Professor of Health Behavior and Health Education, with tenure,
School of Public Health, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Cohan, Richard H., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, August
1-October 31, 2005
Countryman, Matthew J., Associate Professor of History, with tenure, and Associate Professor of
American Studies, with tenure, Program in American Culture, College of Literature, Science and
the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, 2006

339



May Meeting, 2006

Davis, Gerald F., Wilbur K. Pierpont Collegiate Professor of Management and Professor of
Organizational Behavior and Human Resources Management, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School
of Business, and Professor of Sociology, without tenure, College of'Literature, Science, and the
Arts, sabbatical leave, January I-May 31, 2006
Delanghe, Gay A., Professor ofDance, with tenure, School of Music, and Lecturer in Education, School
of Education, retirement furlough, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
DePuit, Gerald A., Clinical Assistant Professor of Performing Arts (MIusical Theatre), School ofMusic,
retirement furlough, September 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Derr, Ellwood S., Professor of Music (Theory), with tenure, School of Music, retirement furlough,
September 1, 2006-May 31., 2007
Doering, Charles R., Professor Of Mathematics, With tenure, College of iAterature, Science and the Arts,
duty off campus, Januay 1-May 31,12006
Fissell, Rachel B., Clinical Lecturer in Interal Medicine, Medical School, extended sick leave, January
16-March 13, 2006, and child care leave, March 17-April 23, 2006
Giannobile, William V., William K. and Mary Anne Najjar Professor, Professor of Dentistry, with tenure,
Department of Periodontics and Oral Medicine, School of Dentistry, and Associate Professor of
Biomedical Engineering, without tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave, March 1-July 31,
2006
Gland, John L., Professor of Chemistry and Applied Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, extended sick leave, March 1-May31, 2006
Green, Brian P., Professor of accounting, with tenure, JM-Dearbom School of Management, sabbatical
leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Guck, Marion A., Professor of MuSiC (Music Theo ), with tenure, School of Music, outside teaching
leave, Septmber 1, 2006-May 31, 2007
Harlow, Sioban D., Professor of Epidemiology, with tenure, School of Public Health, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2005-May 31, 2006
Karr, Dale G., Associate Professor of Naval Architecture and-Marine Engineering, with tenure, College of
Engineering, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
KJazerooni, Ella A., Professor of Radiology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical, February
1-April 30, 2006
Krishnan, Mayuram S., Professor of Computer and Infomation Systems, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross
School of Business, sabbatical leave, Septemiber1-December 31, 2005
Lafontaine, Francine, Jack D. Sparks - Whirlpool Corporation Research Professor of Business
Administration, Professor of Business Economics, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of
Business,  d Professor of Economics, without tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
sabbatical leave, September 1-December 331, 2005
Lanen, William N., Professor of Accounting, with tenure, StephenM.  Ross School of Business, sabbatical
leave, September I-December 31, 2005
Little, Roderick J,, Richard D. Remington Collegiate Professor of Biostatistics, Professor of Biostatistics,
with tenure, School of Public Health and Professor of Statistics, without tenure, College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 3 1,2006
MacDougcald, Ormond A., Associate Professor of Molecular and Integrative Physiology, with tenure, and
Associate Professor of Internal Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
September 1, 2005-August 31, 2006
MeShan, Daniel L., Professor of Radiation Oncology, with tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave,
October 1, 2005-March 31, 2006
Northouse, Laurel L., Professor ofNursing, with tenure, School ofNursing, sabbatical leave, September
1, 2005-May.31, 2006
Olynyk, Patricia J., Associate Professor of Art., with tenure, School of Art and Design, sabbatical leave,
September 1-December 31, 2005
Pan, Jwo, Professor of Mechanical Engineering, with tenure, College of Engineering, sabbatical leave,
January 1-May 31, 2006
Pires, Acrisio M., Assistant Professor of Linguistics, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, duty off
campus, January1-Ma yI31, 2006
Quinn, Rober E., Margaret Eiott MTracy Cololegiate  Professor of Business Administraion aind Professr
of Oranizational Behavior and Human Resource Ma~nagement, with tenre1, Stphen M. Ross
Schoo~l of Business, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31, (2006
Robins, DianeM., Prfe~ssor of~ HuanGenetic~s, ith tenure Medical School, sabbatical  leave,
November 1:, 2005-Apr3il 30, 00
Roubidoux, Marilyn A., Profssor; of Radiolog, witht~enue Medical School, sabbaical leave, July
21-October 20, 20051
Rubin, Gayle S., Assistat Professor ofAnthrpology  and: Assistat Profsso r ofComparativ Literature,
College of Literaur, Science: an teArts duty off campus, January 1-May 31, 2:006

340



May Meeting, 2006

Seyhun, Hasan N., Jerome B. and Eilene M. York Professor of Business Administration and Professor of
Finance, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,
2006
Shotwell, Jeffrey L., Associate Professor of Dentistry, with tenure, Department ofProsthodontics, School
of Dentistry, phased retirement furlough, May 1, 2006-April 30, 2010
Spradlin, Marcus, Assistant Professor of Physics, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, duty off
campus, September 1-December 31, 2005, and scholarly activity leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Strandholm, Karen S., Associate Professor of BusinessAdministration, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School
of Management, sabbatical leave, January 1-April 30, 2006
Studlar, Gaylyn, Rudolf Amrheim Collegiate Professor of Film Studies, Professor of Screen Arts and
Cultures, with tenure, Professor of English Language and Literature, with tenure, Professor of
Women's Studies, without tenure, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, and Professor of
Music, without tenure, School of Music, sabbatical leave, September 1-December 31, 2005
Vinokur, Diane K., Associate Professor of Social Work, with tenure, School of Social Work, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2006
Waissi, Gary R., Professor of Management Studies, with tenure, UM-Dearborn School of Management,
sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-April 30, 2006
Walsh, James P., Gerald and Esther Carey Professor of Business Administration and Professor of
Organizational Behavior, Human Resource Management, Corporat teategy and International
Business, with tenure, Stephen M. Ross School of Business, sabbatical leave, January 1-May 31,
2006
Wilkinson, Bruce H., Professor of Geology and Mineralogy, with tenure, College of Literature, Science
and the Arts, duty off campus, January 1-December 31, 2006
Williams, Fred E., Professor of Management, with tenure, UM-Flint School of Management, sabbatical
leave, January 1-May 31, 2004
Woodroofe, Michael B., Leonard J. Savage Professor of Statistics, Professor of Statistics, with tenure, and
Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, duty off
campus, January 1-May 31, 2006
Yeo, Soenae, Associate Professor of Nursing, with tenure, School of Nursing, and Associate Professor of
Family Medicine, without tenure, Medical School, sabbatical leave, September 1, 2005-May 31,
2006
TERMINATIONS
Efective on the dates indicated
Resi ned
Flowers, Judith M., Assistant Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, April 30, 2006
Gater, David R., Assistant Professor of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical School, May 26,
2006
Krokos, Irene, Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, April 14, 2006
Rontal, Amy K., Clinical Instructor in Emergency Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2006
Roth, Michael, Assistant Professor of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Medical School, June 30,
2006
Salisbury, Linda C., Assistant Professor of Management, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, April 30, 2006
Valdez, Riccardo, Clinical Assistant Professor of Pathology, Medical School, May 5, 2006
Retired
Deininger, Rol A., Professor of Environmental Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, May 31,
2006
Friedman, Bruce, Professor of Pathology, with tenure, Medical School, April 30, 2006
Garrison, Richard P., Associate Professor of Industrial Health, with tenure, School of Public Health, May
31, 2006
Hazlett, Brian A., Professor of Zoology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2006
Hinman, Peter G., Professor of Mathematics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
May 31, 2006
Oleinick, Arthur, Associate Professor of Public Health Law, with tenure, School of Public Health, May
31, 2006
Papazian, Dennis R., Professor of History, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts, Sciences, and
Letters, April 30, 2006

341



May Meeting, 2006

Parsons, Jeffrey R., Professor of Anthropology, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
June 30, 2006
Pratt, William B., Professor of Pharmacology, without tenure, Medical School, December 31, 2005
Roe, Byron P., Professor of Physics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May 31,
2006
Steneck, Nicholas H., Professor of History, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts,
August 31, 2006
Swales, John M., Professor of Linguistics, with tenure, College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, May
31, 2006
Van Tiem, Darlene M., Associate Professor of Education, with tenure, UM-Dearborn College of Arts,
Sciences, and Letters, July 31, 2006
Term Completed
Holter, Mark C., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, May 31, 2006
Marletta, Michael A., Professor of Biological Chemistry, without tenure, Medical School, July 31, 2005
Rosenberg, Sharon R., Clinical Instructor in Internal Medicine, Medical School, June 30, 2006
Schild, Deborah R., Assistant Professor of Social Work, School of Social Work, May 31, 2006
Sirvient, Ana I., Assistant Professor of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, College of
Engineering, May 31, 2006
Retirement Memoirs. Vice President Churchill submitted memoirs for 19 retiring
faculty members, and Provost Gramlich called attention to the retirements of Jaes
Dapogny, Paul Rasmussen, and Nicholas Steneck.
Layman E. Alen, LL.B., professor of law, will retire from active facultystatus on
May 31, 2006, afteran extraordinary career ofteac g, administration, and research.
Professor Allen received his A.B. degee from Princeton University in 1951, his
M.P.A. degree from   Harvard University in 1952, and his LL.B. degree from      Yale
University in 1956. He served on the faculty at Yale Law School from 1958-66 and
joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1966 as an associate professor in the Law
School and senior research scientist in the Mental Health Research Istitute (MHRI).
He was promoted to professor in 1971 and maintained his appointment in the MHRI
until 2001.
Professor Allen is best kown for his work in mathematical logic, instructional
gaming, and atificial intelligence. He is justly credited as one of thepioneers of game
theory, and has focused most especialy on legal alications of formal-aalytical
methods. His early work, at Yale Law School in the 1960s, paved the way for extending
formal decision-making methods to legal rules. More recently, his reseach has focused
on  formal mathemaical approaches to      questions of constitutional andstatutory
interpretaion. Indeed, he has developed an exhaustiveinterpretive model of several
constitutional amendments in the Bill of Rights.    His work appears in numerous
ma tematical journals, and he has served on the editorialboards of Jurimetrics Journal,
the Jounal of Legal Education, and the Journal of Conflict Resolution. In addition to
these scholarly achievements, he is the author of the widely popular book, WFF 'N
PROOF: The Gae of         dern Logic, a classic that went through several editions in the
1960s.
During his 40-year career in the Law School, Professor Allen's classes in
symbolic logic and legal communication and legal relations became staples in the
curriculum and have inspired generons of mathematically minded law students. His
commitment and integrity made him a model for students and colleagues alike.
The Regents salute this accomplished scholar and educator for his long and
dedicated service by naming Layman Allen professor emeritus of law.

342



May Meeting, 2006

Erling Bliindal Bengtsson, DIPL., professor of music (cello) in the School of
Music, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
A native of Denmark, Professor Bengtsson began cello studies at the age of three
with his father in Copenhagen. He received his diploma in 1950 from the Curtis
Institute of Music in Philadelphia, where he studied with the celebrated Gregor
Piatigorsky. After serving on the faculty at the Curtis Institute from 1950-53, he
returned to Denmark and served as a professor at the Royal Danish Conservatory of
Music from 1953-90. He joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1990 as professor
of music (cello).
Professor Bengtsson made his first concert appearance at age four, and first
appeared as a soloist with orchestra at age ten. He has been a busy concert artist ever
since, both in recital and as soloist, with scores of orchestras across the European
continent. Since joining the University of Michigan faculty, he has performed as a
soloist with symphony orchestras in Denmark, England, Germany, Norway, and Iceland,
and has given numerous recitals and countless master classes. Professor Bengtsson has
also produced more than 50 recordings, including highly praised recorded performances
of all Bach suites for cello, the Kodaly solo sonata (chosen in 1998 by the "Guinness
Classical 1000" as one of the top 1000 recordings of all time), and Beethoven sonatas
for cello and piano. Among Professor Bengtsson's numerous awards are Knight, first
class, of the Order of Dannebrog in Denmark and Grand Knight of the Icelandic Order
of the Falcon. He is member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Music, was named
"Chevalier de Violoncelle" by Indiana University in 1993, and received the "Award of
Distinction" from the Manchester International Cello Festival, England, 2001. A
life-sized bronze statue of Professor Bengtsson stands in front of the University Concert
Hall in Reykjavik, Iceland as a testimonial to the esteem in which this legendary cellist
is held across Scandinavia.
In addition to being a world-class performer, Professor Bengtsson is an
exemplary teacher who has been an invaluable model for students and faculty alike. He
has been a devoted champion of his students, a statesman in his interactions with
colleagues, and an ambassador for the University of Michigan in the musical world here
and abroad. Professor Bengtsson has made immeasurable contributions to the education
of his students at the School of Music, Theatre & Dance.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming Erling Bldndal Bengtsson professor emeritus of music (cello).
James E. Dapogny, D.M.A., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor and professor of music
(theory) in the School of Music, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Dapogny received his B.M., M.M., and D.M.A. degrees in 1962, 1963,
and 1971, respectively, from the University of Illinois. He joined the University of
Michigan faculty as an instructor in 1966 and was promoted to assistant professor in
1971, associate professor in 1976, and professor in 1989. He was awarded the Arthur F.
Thurnau professorship in 1988.
During his exemplary career at the School of Music, Professor Dapogny has taught
and counseled numerous students. His inestimable value as a teacher and the high
regard with which he is held by students and colleagues were recognized when he
received the Thurnau professorship in 1988. Professor Dapogny has taught a wide
range of graduate and undergraduate courses, and his calm, wise demeanor has made
him an exemplary ambassador for the School of Music.

343



M4ay Meeting, 2006

Professor Dapogny is also widely knon within the music industry as a performer
of early jazz. He has many recordings to his credit, and is the author of published
articles and transcriptions.  In perform ances as a jazz pianist-bandleader-arranger,
Professor Dapogny has appeared in thirty states, at jazz festivals, and in prestigious
venues such as Carnegie Hall and the Newport Jazz Festival. His expertise as a jazz
pianist and arranger has led to notable engagements on "A Prarie Home Companion"
and other radio broadcasts, along with repeated New Years' Eve performances in major
cities and recordings with the James Dapogny Chicago Jazz Band. He has performed in
collaboration with popular-music icons ranging from the Rolling Stones pianist, Ian
Stewart, to blues megastar Bonnie Raitt, His persistence and skill in transcrbing
countless musical performances from recording into musical notation resulted in an
extensive anthology of Jelly Roll Morton compositions.  This anthology not only
became a model for a new sort of musicological documentary study, but also was one of
the single most important contributions in leading the academy as a whole to admit jazz
(and by extension other popular music) as a valuable and rewarding topic for study.
Professor Dapogny's interest and expertise in stride piano led him to make discoveries
that culminated in his large-scale reconstruction of"De Organizer" and "The Dreamy
Kid," two operas by James P. Johnson that were once thought to be lost.
The Regents now salute this distinguished faculty member for his dedicated
service by naming James E. Dapogny Arthur F. Thurnau Professor Emeritus and
professor emeritus of music (theory).
Rolf A. Deininger, Ph.D., professor of environmental health, department of
enviromnental sciences in the School of Public Health, will retire from active faculty status
on May 3 1, 2006.
Professor Deininger earned his undergraduate degree in civil engineering in 1958
from the University of Stuttgart, his MS. degree in en  o-ental engineering from
Northwester University in 1962, and his Ph.D. degree in environmental engrineerig from
Northwestern University in 1964. He was appointed assistant professor of environmental
health in the University of Michigan School of Public Health in 1964, promoted to
associate professor of environmental health in 1968, to professor of environmental health
and industrial health in 1973. In 1999, his title was changed to professor of environmental
health, department of environmental sciences.
Professor Deiinger's research interests have been in the field of water quality. He
was conducting studies on the security and safty of public water supplies two decades
before it became a homeland security issue. Due to his skill in these areas, he was selected
to participate on national and international expert panels examining water quality issues for
municipal water systems.  Professor Deininger has been a member of numerous
professional societies and organizations including the National Academy of Sciene and
Engineering, American Water Works Association, American Society of Civil Engineers,
the Germn  WaterPoluion~ Coto  eeratin, the Germa Socety of Engier, and the
Insternational AssQ~ocito  ofWate Quality  His contrbutons  in: heping  to assure the
highesVt water qualit in te United tates the Euro~peanUnio an in te  Midle Easthlave
bee  extaordinary.  Prfesr   Deingerk isknwn forhis commitmen to ~acadmic
scholarshp an has traind  doens of~ msters leve studnts anddoctoral stdents
The Regents salutel th~isist~ingihed faculty memberby naming Ro~lf A Deiinge
professor ~emeits  ~~ofnionmentl health scinces.

344



May Meeting, 2006

Richard P. Garrison, Ph.D., associate professor of industrial health, Department
of Environmental Health Sciences in the School of Public Health, will retire from active
faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Garrison earned his B.S.E. degree in aerospace engineering in 1970, his
M.S. degree in industrial health and aerospace science in 1972, and his Ph.D. degree in
industrial health in 1977, all from the University of Michigan. From 1977-83 he was
employed as senior consultant by Occusafe, and from 1983-85 he was a senior industrial
hygienist and then manager of safety and industrial hygiene at Abbott Laboratories. He
joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1985 as associate professor of industrial
health.
Professor Garrison's research interests focused on ventilation design and
measurement of particulates in confined spaces. He also made significant contributions to
modeling for low volume/high velocity ventilation and the service life of organic vapor
respirators in the work place. From 1992-99, Professor Garrison was director of the School
of Public Health's Industrial Hygiene Program, and from 2003-04 he was the school's
safety officer. From 1999-2006, he was a laboratory design coordinator for the University's
Department of Occupational Safety and Environmental Health. He has been a board
cerified industrial hygienist since 1980, and a certified safety professional since 1981.
Professor Garrison has served on the editorial board of the American Industrial Hygiene
Association Journal, and for his work on respiratory protection, he received the John M.
White Award from the American hndustrial Hygiene Association.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Richard P.
Garrison associate professor emeritus of industrial health.
Robert E. Glasgow, M.M., professor of music (organ) in the School of Music,
will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Glasgow received his B.M. and M.M. degrees from the Eastman
School of Music in 1950 and 1951 respectively. From 1951-62, he was associate
professor of organ and college organist at MacMurray College in Jacksonville, Illinois.
He joined the University of Michigan School of Music in 1962 as assistant professor,
and was promoted to associate professor in 1964 and professor in 1973.
Professor Glasgow was awarded the Harold Haugh Award for excellence in the
teaching of performance. He has concertized abroad several times, tours the United
States and Canada every season, is in demand for master classes and workshops, and
appears annually as a featured performer, lecturer, and clinician at national and regional
conventions of the American Guild of Organists. He gave a recital, lecture, and taught a
master class at the International Congress of Organists at Cambridge University, and
was a featured recitalist and lecturer at the American Classic Organ Symposium in the
Mormon Tabernacle, marking the renovation of its historic organ. Professor Glasgow
was named Intemational Perfomnner of the Year by the American Guild of Organists
New York chapter. He was awarded an honorary doctor of music degree from
MacMurray College in 1973.
The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher and pmeformer by
naming Robert E. Glasgow professor emeritus of music (organ).
Subhash C. Goel, Ph.D., professor of civil engineering in the College of
Engineering, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Goel received his B.E. (1958) and M.E. (1961) degrees from the
University of Roorkee, India, and his Ph.D. degree from the University of Michigan in

345



May Meeting, 2006

1968. He joined the faculty asassistant professor in 1968 and was promoted to
associate professor in 1972 and professor in 1979.
Professor God's research in the field of earthquake-resistant design of structures
has had an enormous impact on our knowledge of the seismic behavior of building
structures and on construction practices, especially those related to steel and composite
structures. Particularly noteworthy among his many contributions is his work on the
seismic behavior and design of special concenically bracedframes, and the development
of "Special Truss Moment Frames." Both of those systemshave been included in seismic
design codes worldwide since they were first incorporated into the 1994-1997 Uniform
Building Code. He also developed a truss analogy theory for steel moment connections,
and an innovative perf ance-baedseismic design procedure. Besides being a renowned
researcher of interational reputation, Professor Goel is also an eminent educator and
mentor. His former doctoral students can be found teaching at institutions around the
world, including the U.S., India, Korea, Japan, Thailand, Lebanon, and Jordan.
During his career, Professor Goel has authored or co-authored more than 400
publications and presentations and has been the principal or co-principal investigator on
over 30 federally-funded research projects. He has also received numeous awrds,
including the 1997 T.R. Higgins Lectureship Award from the American Institute of
Steel Construction, the 1999 NOVA Awardfrom Construction Innovation Forumfor
the development of the Special Truss Moment Framing System for seismic resistance,
and the 2004 Shortridge Hardesty Award from the Aerican Society of Civil Engineers.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Subhash C. Goel
professor emeritus of civil engineering.
Brian A. Hazlett, Ph.D., professor of zoology in the Department of Ecology and
Evolutionary Biology in the College of Literature, Science, nd the Arts, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Hazlet received his B.S. degree from the University of Maryland in
1961 and his M.A. and Ph.D. deRees from Harvard University in 1962 and 1964,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an assistant professor in
1966 and was promoted to associate professor in 1971 and professor in 1980.
Professor Hazlett is regarded as one of the world's experts on hermit crab
behavior. His research focuses on the behavioral responses of hermit crabs to situations
of resource limitation, and he pioneered the analysis of shell fighting and its significance
in optimizing the size and volume of shells. More generally his analysis paved the way
towards understanding the consequences of resource-sharing as a mode of optimizing
resource use. His recent research interests include thechemical ecology of crayfish. He
was the first to demonstrate ala  responses to a variety of environmental stimuli, and
he also demonstrated the complicated responses that emerged from the interaction of
distinct chemical stimuli offered simultaneously. This work is widely cited in studies of
chemical responses of many organisms in addition to crayfish.
During the 1970s and 1980s Professor Hazlett served three terms as head of the
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology within the Division of Biological
Sciences. He was associate chair for curriculum in the former biology depa ent and
later served as associate chair for space and facilities in the new Dep  ent of Ecology
and Evolutionary Biology. At two critic  stages in its development, he served for a
year as interim director of the University of Michigan Biological Station. Professor
Hazlett mentored 14 doctoral students during his career and taught a wide variety of

346



May Meeting, 2006

undergraduate and graduate courses, including many summer courses at the University
of Michigan Biological Station.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Brian A. Hazlett
professor emeritus of zoology.
Peter G. Hinman, Ph.D., professor of mathematics in the College of Literature,
Science and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Hinman received his B.A. degree from Harvard Collegein 1959 and his
Ph.D. degree from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1966. He joined the
University of Michigan faculty in 1966 as a T.H. Hildebrandt Research Instructor, and
was promoted to assistant professor in 1968, associate professor in 1973, and professor in
1983.
The main area of Professor Hinman's research concerns the area of
mathematical logic known as recursion theory or computability theory, which deals with
theoretical questions about the computability of functions. This aea has connections
with theoretical computer science and other areas ofmathematical logic, especially
descriptive set theory. His publications include numerous papers, the research-level
monogaph "Recursion-Theoretic Hierarchies," and a chapter in the Handbookof
Computability Theory. He was the recursion theory editor for the Omega Bibliography
of Mathematical Logic, a project that involved classifying by topic the entire literature
of recursion theory from its beginnings until 1985. Most recently, he published a
graduate-level comprehensive textbook,  nmentals of  thematical Logic.
Within the department, Professor Hinman served as associate chair for graduate
studies (1980-83, 1986-87), mathematics undergraduate program director (1989-92,
1994-2000), associate chair for education (1997-2000), and associate chair for faculty
appointments (2002-03). He served on the deparent's executive committee in five
consecutive decades.  In 1980, Professor Hinman established the math lab, giving
mathematics students a venue for leing, tutoring, and working together. He was chair
of the Quantitative Reasoning Task Force that established an undergaduate requirement
for quantitative reasoning and identified a dive array of courses that would contain
components to fulfill that requirement.  Professor Hinan directed seven doctoral
dissertations and was always considered an exceptional teacher at all levels, as evidenced
by his having received the AMOCO Good Teaching Award and four LS&A Excellence in
Education Awards.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Peter G. Hinman
professor emeritus ofmathematics.
Arthur Oleinick, J.D., M.D., associate professor of public health law in the
Department of Environmental Health Sciences, School of Public Health, will retire from
active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Dr. Oleinick received his A.B. and M.P.H degrees from the University of
Michigan in 1957 and 1959, respectively. He earned his M.D. degree from The Johns
Hopkins University in 1962 and his J.D. degree from the Northwestern University
School of Law, Lewis and Clark College, in 1978. Dr. Oleinick was appointed surgeon
in the P.H.S. Commissioned Corps, Epidemiology Branch, at the National Cancer
Institute (NCI) from 1964-66 and then medical officer from 1967-69. In 1968 he was
appointed senior surgeon in the Commissioned Corps and since 1980 he has been a
senior surgeon (inactive reserve). From 1969-76, Dr. Oleinick worked as an
epidemiologist in the Health Services Research Foundation at the Kaiser Permanente

347



May Meeting, 2006

Hospitals; he served as a staff pediatrician at the Permanente Clinic from 1969-78. Dr.
Oleinick joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1978 as an associate professor of
public health law in the School of Public Health, Department of Environmental Health
Sciences.
Dr. Oleinick has devoted his academic career to public health issues related to
occupational injuries and applications of environmental law.  His research on
occupational back strains/sprains and musculoskeletal work injuries made significant
contributions to the field.  He also carried out studies on compensation databases of
work injuries related to days away from work and truck driver injury and outcomes. Dr.
Oleinick has served as a manuscript reviewer for Medical Care and the Ame rican
Journal of Industrial Medicine and served on a committee through the National Institute
of Occupational Safety and Health to set research priorities. He was certified by the
American Board of Preventive Medicine in Occupational Medicine in 1996.
The Regents salute this distinguished faculty member by naming Arthur Oleinick
associate professor emeritus of public health law.
Dennis R. Papazian, Ph.D., professor of history and director of the Center for
Armenian Studies, Research and Publication at the University of Michigan-Dearborn,
retired from active faculty status on April 30, 2006.
Professor Papazian received his B.A. degree from Wayne State University in 1954,
two M.A. degrees in 1958-from Wayne State Universit (East European studies) and
from the University of Michigan (history), and a Ph.D. degree from the University of
Michigan in 1966. He joined the University of Michigan-Dearborn faculty in 1966 as a
lecturer in history, and was promoted to assistant professor in 1966asssociate professor
in 1968, and professor in 1971.
Throughout his 40-year career at the University, Professor Papazian taught courses
in Russian/Soviet and Armenian history, including courses on Armenia and world
history, Russian intellectual history, early Russian history, imperial Russia, and the
Russian revolutions. In addition to articles on Russian history, he published widely in
the field of Armenian immigration and the Armenian genocide.
Professor Papazian was appointed director of the Center for Armenian Studies,
Research and Publication on the Dearborn campus in 1986, and served in this capacity
until his retirement. He has served on the board of directors of the Michigan Ethnic
Heritage Center and on the Society for Armenian Studies Executive Council. Most
recently, Professor Papazian was appointed to the New Jersey Commission on
Holocaust Education.
The Regents now salute this dedicated and accomplished teacher and scholar by
naming Dennis R. Papazian professor emeritus of history.
William B. Pratt, M.D., professor of pharmacology in the Medical School, retired
from active faculty status on December 31, 2005, after a distinguished career as a
scientist and educator.
Dr. Pratt received his A.B. degree from Dartmouth College in 1960 and his M.D.
degree from Yale Medical School in 1964. He undertook postdoctoral studies at the
Instintit fir Therapeutische Biochemie, Goethe Universitit, Germany, and at Stanford
University, and completed an internship in pediatrics at Yale Medical School in 1973.
He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an associate professor in 1973 and was
promoted to professor in 1979.

348



May Meeting, 2006

Dr. Pratt's research focuses on the mechanism of steroidreceptor transformation
and trafficking, heat shock proteins and intracellular transport, and control of steroid
hormone receptor function, and he has madeoutstanding and sinal contributions to all
these fields. His laboratory was the first to document definitively the role of heat shock
proteins in steroid receptor binding, transformation, and nuclear translocation. These
studies were benchmarks in the field of steroid hormone research and have since been
shown to be the mechanism for intracellular transport of other hormones, growth factors,
and other important cellular proteins. Dr. Pratt has published more than 140 original
manuscripts, 7 books, and 49 invited review articles. He has received numerous awards,
including a merit awrd from NIDDK (1993), the Distinguished Faculty Lectureship in
Biomedical Research from the University of Michigan (1996), the Goodman and Gilman
Award in Drug Receptor Pharmacology from the American Society for Pharmacology
and Experimental Therapeutics (2002), and the Allan Munck Prizeand Distinguished
Lectureship from Dartmouth Medical School (2002).
Dr. Pratt is not only an outstanding scholar, but a dedicated teacher and superb
mentor, as demonstated by his having received the Henry J. Kaiser Award for
Excellence in Teaching. A dedicated University citizen, Dr. Pratt has also se:red on
numerous committees at both the University and Medical School levels.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scientist and educator by naming William
B. Pratt professor emeritus of pharmacology.
Paul G. Rasmussen, Ph.D., Arthur F. Thurnau Professor, professor of
chemistry in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, and professor of
macromolecular science and engineering in the College of Engineering, will retire from
active faculty on May 31, 2006.
Professor Rasmussen received his B.A. degree from St. Olaf College in 1960
and his Ph.D. degree from Michigan State University in 1964. He joined the University
of Michigan faculty as assistat professor of cheisry in 1964, and was promoted to
associate professor in 1970 and professor in 1979. He was appointed professor of
macromolecular science and engineering in 1992 and was named  rthur F. Thumau
professor in 2002. Within the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, Professor
Rasmussen served as associate dean for research and facilities from 1975-82 and as
associate dean for research and graduate studies fom 2001-04.
Professor Rasmussen's early research focused on the coordination chemistry of
transiion metals and the use of imidazoles as ligands to thesemetals. His most recent
research has dealt with the synthesis and chacterization of pyrazine cyanocarbons as
electron acceptors and n-caer materials. He has published over 100 papers nd
patents, as well as a number of abstacts and meeting prepints, and has advised 28
Ph.D. students. Professor Rasmussen has also developed innovative instructional
methods, including "Seeing Through Chemistry," an interactive computer/video tool,
and"The Businessof Chemistry," which consists of curricular modules that relae
chemistry to everyday life. His dedication as a teacher was recoized by the LS&A
Excellence in Education award in 1994, by his appointment as an Arthur F. Thumrnau
Professor in 2002, and by election as an honorary member of Phi Eta Sigma for
excellence in  e teaching of general chemistry. Irecent years he has been especially
interested in improving minority student representation in the sciences. He held a Sloan
Foundation grant for the support of minority students in materials research and received
the University's Harold R. Johnson Diversity Service Award in 2004.

349



May Meeting, 2006

The Regents now salute this distinguished teacher, scholar, and administrator,
by naming Paul G. Rasmussen Arthur F.Thurnau Professor Emeritus, professor
emeritus of chemistry, and professor emeritus of macromolecular science and
engineering.
Byron P. Roe, Ph.D., professor of physics in the College of Literature, Science,
and the Arts, will retire fom active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Roe earned his B.A. degree at Washington University in 1954 and his
Ph.D. degree at Cornell University in 1959. He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1959 as an instructor in physics and was promoted to assistant professor in
1961, associate professor in 1964, and professor in 1969.
Early in his career at Michigan, Professor Roe worked with Nobel Laureate
Donald Glaser's bubble chamber group at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
then carried out other studies at the Brookhaven National Laboratory and at the Argonne
National Laboratory. At the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, he organized the
first studies of neutrino interactions in a hydrogen bubble chamber, and later, with
collaborators from the Soviet Union, he studied anti-neutrino reactions in a heavy liquid
chamber. He also led a major Femilab collaboration that studied prompt neutrino
production with a large electronic counter experiment, as well as a subsequent
higher-energy experiment combining both bubble chamber and counter technologies.
In 1983 Professor Roe and other Michian colleagues joined the L-3
collaboration at the Large Electron Positron (LEP) Collider at the European Laboratory
for Particle Physics (CERN),  erethey played a major role in the design of the hadron
calorimeter for the L-3 detector. After LEP began operating in 1989, Professor Roe led
a Michigan team tat measured the properties of manyfndamental elementary particles
and also searched for predicted new particles. Since 1998 Professor Roe has carried out
research on the Mini-Boone Expriment at Fermilab in a searchfor exotic oscillations
of neutrino species.
Professor Roe chaired or co-chaired the dissertation committees of 15 graduate
students. He is the author of two widely-used graduate textbooks, one on expeimental
particle physics, the other on statistics in experimental physics. He is a Fellow of the
American Physical Society and has served on many national and laboratory advisory
boards, review committees, and panels.
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Byron P. Roe
professor emeritus of physics.
Sonya O. Rose, Ph.D., Natalie Zemon Davis Collegiate Professor of History,
Sociology, and Women's Studies, and professor of history, professor of sociology, and
professor of women's studies in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts, will
retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Rose received her B.A. degree from Antioch College in 1958, and her
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Northwestern University in 1962 and 1974, respectively.
From 1977-92 she was on the faculty of Colby College, where she also served terms as
associate dean of faculty, associate dean of the college, and chair of her department.
Professor Rose joined the University of Michigan faculty as professor of history and
professor of sociology in 1993. She received the additional appointment of professor of
women's studies in 1995 and was appointed Natalie Zemon Davis Collegiate Professor
of History, Sociology, and Women's Studies in 2002.

350



May Meeting, 2006

Professor Rose's scholarship fruitfully deconstructs the conventional boundaries
that structure academic life. One of the leading historians of modem Britain, she is a
renowned analyst of culture, an archivally-based historian who comfortably details and
reconstructs social theory. She is not only the leading historian of working class
England in the Victorian period, but has boldly stepped into the historyof World War II.
Her publications include 35 scholarly articles in the leading journals of her field, 2
influential monographs, 2 field-shaping, co-edited collections of essays, and a new
monograph that is underway.
Professor Rose is also a dedicated undergraduate instructor, a highly successful
graduate student mentor, and a conscientious and generous colleague whose exemplary
record of academic service includesappointments as associate chair (1995-97) and chair
(2002-05) of the Depatent of History.
The Regentsnow salute his distinguished scholar by naming Sonya 0. Rose
professor emerita of history, professor emerita of sociology, and professor emerita of
Women's Studies.
Patricia D. Shure, M.A., senior lecturer in mathematics in the College of
Literature, Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Ms. Shure received her A.B. degree in 1958 and her A.M. degree in 1960, both
from the University of Michigan. From 1963-81 she taught mathematics in private
secondary schools.  She joined the University of Michigan faculty in 1982 as
mathematics and science coordinator for the Coalition for the Use of Learning Skills
(foreruer of the Comprehensive Studies Program) and lecturer in the Deparent of
Mathematics, and was named a senior lecturer in 2002.
In 1992, Ms. Shurereceived federal funding for a project to developand
implement a reformed calculus program at the University of Michigan. The resulting
program, known nationwide as "Michigan Calculus," has become a model for
integrating real-life problems, technology, and cooperative le ing into a calculus
course. Ms. Shure served as the associate director and then director of the department's
reshman-sophomore program from   1993-2006, supervising the large multi-section
introductory courses that serve roughly 3000 students each fall. To strengthen the
instruction in these courses, she developed and directed the department's intensive
trainingprogram for incoming junior faculty and GSIs. She is the co-author of a widely
used pre-calculus textbook, and recently co-directed a project to create web-based skills
enhancement tools for college and high school students. She also worked in the area of
high school mathematics curriculum design at the state and national levels.
Ms. Shure's accomplishments have earned her many honors, including the
LS&A Excellence in Education Award (each year from 1991-1997), the Matthews
Undergraduate Teaching Award (1986), the Sarah Goddard Power Award (2000), and
the Louise Hay Award for Contributions to Maeatics Education from       the
Association for Women in Mathematics (2001). Her presentation, "The Scholarship of
Learning and Teaching," was a highlight of the annual summer meeting of the
Mathematics Association of America.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Patricia D. Shure senior
lecturer emerita of mathematics.
Eleanor Singer, Ph.D., research professor in the Survey Research Center, Institute
for Social Research, will retire from active faculty status on April 30, 2006.

351



May Meeting, 2006

Professor Singer received her B.A. degee fom Queens College in 1951 and her
Ph.D. degree from Columbia University in 1966. From 1966-70 she was a lecturer at
Columbia University and from 1970-75 she was a research associate at the Center for
Policy Research (1970-72) and then at Columbia University, Department of Psychiatry
(1973-75). From 1975-77, she was a senior research associate at the National Opinion
Research Center at the University of Chicago. Professor Singer was editor of Public
Opinion Quarterly from 1975-86. Professor Singer returned to Columbia University in
1978 and remained until 1994, when she joined the University of Michigan faculty as a
research scientist. From 1995-2005 she also held an appointment as adjunct professor
of sociology in the College of Literature, Science, and the Arts.
Professor Singer's research at the  stitute for Social Research has centered on
attitudes toward genetic research and technology, and on factors moatvating survey
participation, especially attitudes toward privacy and confidentiality. Professor Singer
has writtenand co-edited several books, including A Telescope on Societ: Social
Science and Suvey Research in the Twentieth Centuy, and  etods for  ting and
Evaluating Survey Questionnaires. Within the Istitte for Social Research, Professor
Singer served as associate director of the Survey Research Center from 1998-2002. She
also chaired two Survey Research Center diversity committees from 1998-2001 and
served on the Survey Research Center's Senior Staff Advisory Committee and
committees concerned with confidentiality and human research subjects protection.
Professor Singer has received many honors, including the Distinguished Achievement
Award from the American Association for Public Opinion (1996). In 1997, she was
named the Wildenman Professor by the Zentrum    fr Umfragen, Methoden und
Analysen (ZUMA).
The Regents now salute this distinguished scholar by naming Eleanor Singer
research professor emerita.
Nicholas H. Steneck, Ph.D., professor of history in the College of Literature,
Science, and the Arts, and faculty associate in the Office of the Vice President for
Research, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Steneck received his B.S. degree from Rutgers University in 1962 and
his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Wisconsin in 1969 and 1970,
respectively. He joined the University of Michigan faculty as assistant professor in
1970 and was promoted to associate professor in 1976 and professor in 1983. From
1997-2002 he also held an appointment as professor of ethics in the College of
Engineering.
Professor Steneck distinguished himself as a research scholar in four fields:
medieval intellectual history, he history of science (both medieval and modern), the
development of ethical practice in the health sciences, and the history of the University
of Michigan. In each of these fields he wrote books, articles, and works of synthesis for
the public, and in the pursuit of his research won significant national and international
grants. He developed popular courses in these areas, and the course he taught with his
wife, Dr. Margaret Steneck, on the history of the University, was a significant factor in
the growth of the study of higher education on the Ann Arbor campus. Out of his
course sequence on the history of science grew our substantial program in the history of
the health, engineering, and physical sciences.
Professor Steneck's service extended from directing the college's Medieval and
Renaissance Collegium to developing the University's programs in values and science,

352



May Meeting, 2006

and he was the LS&A fulcrum in the Inteflex Progam for medical education. He served
as an advisor to a number of govenment agencies, and for part of each of the last few
years he worked in Washington, D.C. in the service of the Office of Research Integrity,
Department of Health and Human Srvices. For a number of years, Professor Steneck
directed the University's Historical Center for the Health Sciences. His deep concer
for historical preservation and conservation led him to become an advocate for the
preservation of important historical University artifacts, including the Detroit
Observatory.
The Regents salute this distinguished scholar by naming Nicholas H. Steneck
professor emeritus of history.
John M. Swales, M.S., professor of linguistics in the College of Literatue,
Science, and the Arts, will retire from active faculty status on May 31, 2006.
Professor Swales received his B.S. (1960) and M.S. (1965) degrees from
Cambridge University and his post-graduate diploma in linguistics and English as a
second lanuage from the University of Leeds in 1966. From 1966-85 he served on the
faculties of the University of Libya (1966-70), the University of Leeds' Overseas
Education Studies Group (1970-73), the University of Khartoum (1973-78), and the
University of Aston in Birmingham (1978-85). He joined the University of Michigan
faculty in 1985 as visiting professor of linguistics and acting director of the English
Language Institute (ELI). He was promoted to professor and director of ELI in 1987,
and served as director until 2001.
Professor Swales is known internationally as a preeminent leader in applied
linguistics, recognized for his pionering work on genre analysis, discourseanalysis,
and the development of teaching materials in English for specific purposes. He is
author, co-author, or co-editor of 15 books, including Analysis (1990), Other Floors,
Other Voices (1998), and Research Genres (2004), all of which are widely cited
throughout the literature in the field. During his long tenure as director of the English
Language Institute, the institute changed its focus from an intensive English program to
providing high-quality English for academic purposes to international students and
visiting scholars. He was known for giving generously of his time and for his
willingness to guide the research and teaching efforts of others. Within the Department
of Linguistics, Professor Swales was an outstanding teacherand dedicated mentor of
undergraduateand graduate students. He was the driving force behind the department's
highly successful undergraduate concentration track in applied linguistics, having
conceived of the program, contributed to its curriculum, and served as advisor. He also
chaired or co-chaired nearly a score of dissertation committees and demonstrated a deep
commitment to providing all students with a wide range of training and funding
opportunities.
The Regents salute this faculty member for his dedicated service by naming John
M. Swales professor emeritus of inguistics.
Memorials. No deaths of active faculty members were reported to the Regents this
month.
Degrees. There were no actions with respect to degrees this month.
Approval of Consent Agenda. On a motion by Regent White, seconded by
Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously approved the Consent Agenda.

353



May Meeting, 2006

The Regents then turned to consideration of the regular agenda.
Alternative Asset Commitments (Crow Holdigs Realty Pa  ers    L.P., Natural
Gas PartnerVIII, L.P., TPG Botechnology Partners II, L.P., TCV VI L.P., lsh,
Caron, AnersonandStoweX, L.P., CharterhouseVIII, L.P., PrivatViirde Fund, L.P.)
Executive Vice President Slottow informed the Regents about follow-on
investments that had been made in the following funds: $30 million to Crow Holdings
Realty Partners IV, LP.; $40 million to Natural Gas Partners VIII, L.P.; $20 million to
TPG Biotechnology Partners II, L.P.; $35 million to TCV VI, L.P.; $25 million to
Welsh, Carson, Anderson and Stowe X, L.P.; $EUR 25 million to Charterhouse VIII,
L.P.; and $45 million to PrivatVarde Fund, L.P.
U.S. Equity Investment (Sageview  Capital Partners, L.P.); Absolute Return
Investment (CT Large Loan 2006, Inc.)
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent White, the Regents
unanimously approved commitment of up to $50 million to Sageview Capital Partners,
L.P. and commitment of up to $25 million from the University Investment Pool (UIP) to
CT Lage Loan 2006, Inc.
Observatory Lodge Renovation
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents
unanimously approved issuing the Observatory Lodge Renovation Project for bids and
awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approvedbudget.
Medical Science Building I Research Laboratory Renovations
On a motion by Regent Brandon, seconded by Regent Newman, the Regents
unanimously approved the Medical Science Building I Research     Laboratory
Renovations Project as described, and authorized issuing the project for bids and
awarding construction contracts providing that bids are within the approved budget.
Medical Science Units I and II Renovations
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Medical Science Units I and II Renovations Project as
described, and authoized commissioning Lord Aeck Sargent for its design.
Michigan Memorial Phoenix Laboratory Renovation
On a motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents
unanimously approved the Michigan Memorial Phoenix Laboratory Renovation Project
as described, and authorized commissioning Lord Aeck & Sargent, Inc. for its design.
Ray Fisher Baseball Stadium Renovation and Alumni Field (Softball) Renovation
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that the baseball stadium project would be
funded solely through gifts and Athletic Department resources. He introduced Norman
Friedman, senior associate of HOK Sport + Venue + Event, Inc.
Mr. Friedman displayed maps showing the locations of both stadims and
renderings of what they will look like once renovated. He noted that the fields for each
stadium would be in their current location and the lighting would remain. The baseball

354



May Meeting, 2006

stadium will have renovations to the bandstand,upgraded seating, and renovated
offices. Locker rooms, trainingfacilities, and equipment storage will move to a new
building and a new hitting facility will be constructed. A new press box will be
constructed above and behind theexisting grandstands. There will be a new entrance
and new rest rooms.
With respect to the softball stadium, two new plazas will be created to give
improved access and visibility. The existing grandstand will be removed and replaced
with a new gandstand that will accommodate 1800, and new bleachers that will
accommodate 1,000. The current locker room will be expanded and existing facilities
and meeting rooms will be expanded. There will be new rest room facilities, retail,
concessions, equipment storage, and an indoor batting facility, as well as a press box
and a new pedestrian walkway. He displayed a conceptual sketch of the entance and
plaza and a rendering of the new grandstand.
Regent Newman inquired whether it was anticipated that this project would yield
any additional revenue for the Athletic Department. Mr. Winters responded that this
was not intended to be a revenue-producing fcility. Regent Newman questioned
whether it might be feasible to have te retail facilityassociated with this project be
opened year-round as a potential source of revenue, due to the lack of any other retail in
that area. Executive Vice President Slottow responded that this was a good idea and its
feasibility would be pursued.
There being no further discussion, Regent McGowan moved approval of the
schematic design of the Ray Fisher Baseball Stadium Renovation Project as presented at
the meeting. Regent Newman seconded the motion, and it was approved unanimously.
Regent McGowan moved approval of the revised scope, budget,and schematic
design for the Alumni Field Renovation Project as presented at the meeting. Regent
Bradon seconded the motion, and it wasapproved unanimously.
University of Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Eye Center Expansion Project
Executive Vice President Slottow noted that since approval of this project in July
2005, thesquare footage has increased fom 215,000 gross square feet to approximately
222,000 gross square feet, with a corresponding increase in budget from $120 million to
$121 million. He introduced Mr. C. Ronald Ostberg, chairan and director of design
for TSA of Massachusetts LLP.
Mr. Ostberg displayed a map illustrating the placement of the project on the site.
He then described features of the new building, noting that it would have 3 levels of
clinical floors, a surgery level, 3 laboratory levels, along with 2 other floors that would
house support facilities, including a vivarium, and mechanical equipment.  He
reviewed schematic designs for the ground floor and the other floors. He noted that
there would be connectors on all but one floor between the existing Kellogg Eye Center
tower and the new building. He displayed renderings of the exterior.
Dr. Kelch commented that this project will provide opportunities for growth for
the Department of Ophthalmology, one of the Health System's finest departments. On a
motion by Regent Newman, seconded by Regent Brandon, the Regents unanimously
approved the revised budget, scope, and schematic design for the University of

355



May Meeting, 2006

Michigan Hospitals and Health Centers Eye Center Expansion Project as presented at
the meeting.
Conflict of Interest Items
President Coleman announced that the agenda includes 5 conflict of interest items,
each of which requires 6 votes for approval. On a motion by Regent Newman,
seconded by Regent Maynard, the Regents unanimously approved each of the following
items:
Approval of Payment for LaRu Machine Quilting & Embroidery, LLC
The Regents approved a payment by the UMHS Environmental Services
Department for custom T-shirts produced by LaRu Machine Quilting & Embroidery,
LLC. Because the co-owner of LaRu Machine Quilting & Embroidery, LLC, Laurie
Rau, is also a University of Michigan employee, this payment falls under the State of
Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1. Parties to the contract are the Regen of the Universi of the University of ichigan and its UHS
Environmental Services Department, and LaRu Machine Quilting & Embroidery, LLC.
2.   The product provided is custom T-shirts, for a total dollar amount of $6,010.25.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Laurie Rau, a University of Michigan
employee, is co-owner of LaRu Machine Quilting & Embroidery, LLC.
Contract between the University of Michigan and NeuroNexus Technologies
The Regents approved a contract with NeuroNexus Technologies for the purchase
of multi-channel recording probes. Because Daryl Kipke and Jamille Hetke, CEO and
director of research, respectively, for NeuroNexus Technologies, are also University of
Michigan employees, this contract falls under the State of Michigan Conflict of Interest
Statute.  The following information is provided in compliance with statutory
requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Kresge
Hearing Research Institute Otolaryngology Laboratory and NeuroNexus Technologies.
2.   The product provided is multi-channel recording probes. The cost for the product is
$16,796.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Daryl Kipke and Jamille Hetke,
University of Michigan employees, are CEO and director of research, respectively, of
NeuroNexus Technologies.
Approval of Payment for Avidimer Therapeutics, Inc.
The Regents approved a payment by the Institute for Entrepreneurial Studies to
Avidimer Therapeutics, Inc. to fund a portion of compensation for an MBA intern. This
payent will be matched by Avidimer Therapeutics, nc.       Because James Baker,
founder, scientific advisor, and minority shareholder of Avidimer Therapeutics, Inc., is
also a University of Michigan employee, this payment falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements:

356



May Meeting, 2006

1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its Institute
for Entrepreneurial Studies and Avidimer Therapeutics, Inc.
2.   The service provided is placement of a student intern. The cost for the service is
$6,600.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that James Baker, a University of Michigan
employee, is also founder, scientific advisor, and minority shareholder of Avidimer
Therapeutics, Inc.
Approval of Payment for MondoDyne
The Regents approved      a payment for faculty photographs purchased fom
MondoDyne by the School of Education.           Because Mike Gould, sole owner of
MondoDyne, is also a University of Michigan employee, this payment falls under the
State of Michigan Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in
compliance with statutory requirements:
1.   Parties to the contract are the Regents of the University of Michigan and its School of
Education, and MondoDyne.
2.   The product provided is faculty photographs, for a total dollar amount of $5,800.00.
3.   The pecuniary interest arises from the fact that Mike Gould, a University of Michigan
employee, is sole owner of MondoDyne.
Fourth Amendment to License Agreement between the University of Michigan and
RenaMed Biologics, Inc.
The Regents approved a fourth amendment agreement ("Agreement") between the
University of Michigan and RenaMed Biologics, Inc. ("RenaMed," formerly known as
Nephros Therapeutics, Inc.) for licensing of the technology "Use of Renal Tubule Cells
for the Treatment of Cardiorenal Syndrome and Primary Essential Hypertension"
(UMOTT File No. 3123). Because Professor H. David Humes is both an employee of
the University of Michigan and patial owner, director, and chair of the medical and
scientific advisory board for RenaMed, this ageeent falls under the State of Michigan
Conflict of Interest Statute. The following information is provided in compliance with
statutory requirements.
1.   Parties to the agreement are the Regents of the University of Michigan and RenaMed
Biologics, Inc.
2.   Amendment terms include adding the above-referenced invention into RenaMed's
exclusive license with the right to grant sublicenses. RenaMed will pay a royalty on
sales and reimburse patent costs. The University will retain ownership of the licensed
technology and may continue to frther develop it and use it internally. No use of
University sevices or facilities, nor any assignment of University employees, is
obligated or contemplated under the agreement. Standard disclaimers of warrantees
and indemnification apply, and the contract may be amended by consent of the parties.
University procedures for approval of these changes will be followed and additional
review by the Conflict of Interest Review Committee will be done as appropriate.
3.   Dr. Humes' pecuniary interest arises from his ownership interest in RenaMed. He has
waived any personal participation in the sharing of revenue received by the University.

357



May Meeting, 2006

Approval of Academic Calendar for 2008-2009
Provost Gramlich announced that this item is being withdrawn in order to
reconcile the dates of the University's spring break with the spring break proposed in
the tentative Annrbor Public Schools contract, which is scheduled for ratification on
May 25, 2006. The revised calendar, which will accommodate the Ann Arbor Public
Schools' schedule, will be submitted for approval at theJune meeting.
Regent McGowan commended the provost's office for its sensitivity toward the
Ann Arbor community on this issue.
A five-minute break followed.
Public Comments
The Public Comments session began at 11:35 a.m. The Regents heard comments
from the following individuals, on the topics indicated: Roger Klungle, faculty
member, Joseph Gaughn, faculty member, and Samantha Petrak, faculty member, all on
the topic of failure to fully implement the LEO contact at UM-Dearborn; and Andre
Wilson, alumnus, Stephen Rassi, student, and Perry Silverschanz, alumna, on
implementation of the Provost's TBLG Task Force recommendations.
There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 12:05 p.m. The
next meeting is scheduled for June 16, 2006.
Sally J. Churchill
Vice President and Secretary of the University

358



JUNE MEETING, 2006

The University of Michigan
Ann Arbor
June 16, 2006
The Regents convened at 9:20 a.m. in the Regents' Room. Present were President
Coleman and Regents Brandon, Maynard, McGowan, Newman, Richner, Taylor, and
White. Also present were Vice President and Secretary Churchill, Vice President
Forrest, Vice President Harper, Executive Vice President Kelch, Vice President Krislov,
Chancellor Little, Vice President May, Chancellor Mestas, Vice President Rudgers,
Executive Vice President Slottow, Provost Sullivan, and Vice President Wilbanks.
Regent Deitch was absent.
Call to Order
President Coleman called the meeting to order. She welcomed Provost Teresa
Sullivan to her first Regents' Meeting, noting that she was concluding her third week in
the position and has already become highly engaged in University affairs.
President Coleman observed that the nation's new poet laureate, Donald Hall, had
served on the University of Michigan faculty for 18 years, and pointed out that he is the
fourth former Michigan faculty member to have become the poet laureate of the United
States.
President Coleman also announced that a website had been established to provide
information about the recently approved renovations to the Michigan Stadium.
Presentation: School of Social Work
President Coleman introduced Dean Paula Allen-Meares, the Norma Radin
Collegiate Professor of Social Work, noting that for more than a decade, and during her
entire tenure as dean, the School of Social work has been ranked as the number one
school of social work in the nation.
Dean Allen-Meares commented that the University of Michigan School of Social
Work is one of the largest social work schools in the United States. It moved into its
state-of-the-art building in 1998. The school offers masters and joint doctoral programs
and also involves large numbers of undergraduates in its research programs. She
reported that there is a continuing shortage of professionally trained social workers and
a critical need for social work researchers to continue to develop the evidence-based
knowledge of the profession.
Dean Allen-Meares commented that several factors contribute to the distinctive
nature of the University of Michigan School of Social Work: the depth and breadth of
its research programs, which receive funding from a number of federal agencies,
including the National Institutes of Health, and its interdisciplinary collaborations with
life sciences programs, including medicine and psychiatry. She pointed out that the
school has affiliations with more than 24 schools and units within the University. It
offers a number of dual degree programs, including law, public policy, business, public
health, dentistry, and urban and regional planning, as well as partnerships with

359



June Meeting, 2006

numerous organizations within the state and throughout the world. She described the
Sol Drachler Program in Jewish Communal Leadership, noting that it prepares students
for professional leadership positions in the Jewish community and is the only program
of its kind at a public university.
Dean Allen-Meares described the MSW program and the joint doctoral program,
noting that Michigan is the only highly-regarded school of social work to award joint
Ph.D. degrees and is acknowledged as offering one of the finest interdisciplinary
programs in the world. She noted that faculty body includes clusters of experts in
specific areas, and that research is collaborative and cross-disciplinary, involving
partnerships with community and private organizations and with key foundations.
Although external research funding has increased substantially during the past two
decades, the endowments of the second and third highest ranking schools of social work
in the nation far exceed that of the University of Michigan's. The school has thus far
achieved 94% of its $16.5 million goal in the Michigan Difference campaign.
Dean Allen-Meares gave examples of some of the school's current research
projects and reviewed its plans for the future. These include increased global focus and
internationalization, continued presence in the University's Life Sciences Initiative, and
development of interdisciplinary centers of research and training excellence. In keeping
with this, she reported that the school had recently submitted a major proposal to
establish an "Advanced Center for Intervention and Services Research on Poverty, Risk,
and Mental Health" that would focus on mood and anxiety disorders among poor
individuals.
Dean Allen-Meares concluded by listing the school's challenges, which include
recruitment and retention of faculty, space renovation, providing competitive financial
assistance for students, and increasing external funding and endowment.
CESF Report - Ann Arbor Campus
Professor Fred Askari, chair of the Ann Arbor Campus Committee on the
Economic Status of the Faculty (CESF), presented the committee's report. He reported
that the committee's primary goal is transparency in compensation. He said that the
committee's major concerns are the unfunded liability of retiree health care expenses,
the University's decision to no longer fund Medicare B reimbursement for retirees, and
ensuring that health care remain affordable for current and retired employees. He
praised the University's cooperative efforts to improve employee health and thereby
reduce health care costs.
Regarding compensation, he stated that the committee would like it to be more
equitable and transparent, incorporate gender equity, and maintain competitiveness
among all of its academic competitors. Other issues include the "loyalty tax" on the
salaries of long-term employees, development of a tuition scholarship program for
dependents of faculty members, and adoption of compensation guidelines.
CESF Report - Dearborn Campus
Professor Brooks Hull, chair of the Dearborn Campus Committee on the Academic
Status of the Faculty, presented that committee's report. The report focused on two
issues, market equity and salary compression, and concluded that salary compression
experienced by UM-Dearborn faculty is significantly worse than at comparable

360



June Meeting, 2006

universities. To address this disparity, the committee recommends raising the entire
salary distribution of associate professors and of full professors so that their position
relative to comparison universities is the same as that of assistant professors.
Professor Hull also reported that the UM-Dearborn CESF strongly opposes the
University's announced plans to discontinue the Medicare Part B reimbursement
program for retired employees.
CESF Report - Flint Campus
Professor Steve Turner, chair of the Flint Campus Committee on the Economic
Status of the Faculty, presented that committee's report. He stated that the report
focused on salary compression within faculty ranks and UM-Flint faculty salaries
compared   with  salaries  at peer institutions, especially the  University  of
Michigan-Dearborn. He noted that the lack of a salary increase for Flint faculty in
2003-04 led to a worsening of the effects of inflation and compression on UM-Flint
faculty salaries, and of the rankings of UM-Flint faculty salaries relative to those at peer
institutions. He noted that at every professorial level, the compound annual faculty
salary growth rate on the Flint campus has been less than those on the Ann Arbor and
Flint campuses.
Recommendations include annual faculty raises in excess of new hire starting
salaries as well as targeted faculty equity adjustments to address salary compression,
especially at the full professor level. The committee also recommended that the campus
maintain a high percentage of tenure-track faculty.
Benefits Update
President Coleman introduced Associate Vice President Laurita Thomas. Ms.
Thomas reported that benefits strategies include offering quality, affordable programs
that are market-competitive and that support recruitment and retention of faculty and
staff; serving as a responsible fiscal agent and resource steward; enabling informed
decision-making in decisions around plan choices; and levering internal and external
expertise in developing innovative new programs to promote health and a healthy
environment.
She reviewed initiatives and policy decisions that had effected benefits offerings
for calendar year 2006 and noted that during the past year, the University had
implemented an additional tax-deferred retirement vehicle (a 457(b) plan), expanded the
use of technology to improve service and reduce administrative expense, expanded the
use of on-line benefit enrollments, and launched the Michigan Healthy Community
Initiative.  She reported that the University's health rate increase in 2006 was
significantly lower than the national trend. She reviewed enrollment numbers by health
plan, noting that the M-Care HMO and PPO plans account for the highest percentages
of enrollment among employees at the expense of the Blue Cross/Blue Shield
traditional plans.
Ms. Thomas discussed measures that the University had undertaken with respect
to the Medicare Part D subsidy and the Medicare Part B premium reimbursement,
which reduced its post-retirement benefit liability by 11.7% and 13.6%, respectively.
She reviewed retirement savings plan enhancements that had been introduced in 2006
and described changes that have been made in vendor contracts for the prescription drug

361



June Meeting, 2006

plan, the life insurance program, and the flexible spending account program. She also
described recent technology and service enhancements that had been implemented in
2005 and 2006.
Ms. Thomas described the Michigan Healthy Community Initiative (MUCI)
program undertaken during FY 2006, noting that far more employees than expected had
participated in the "Active U" component of the program. She also described plans for
2007, which will include new MUCI projects, continued technology enhancements, a
review of dental and long term disability programs, consideration of additional cost
savings and risk mitigation strategies, and transitioning to GASB 45 accounting rules.
She cautioned that the University's health care rate increases will begin to approach
national rates by 2008, creating pressure on University resources.
Executive Vice President Slottow pointed out that the importance of the work
being done by Associate Vice President Thomas and her staff, along with staff from the
Health System, provost's office, the CESF groups, and others, studying ways to manage
costs without sacrificing quality or choice. If management actions such as these are not
taken, he noted, these costs will continue to escalate and will impact the University's
ability to use its resources towards enhancing its mission.
Committee Reports
Finance, Audit and Investment Committee. Regent Brandon reported on the
three agenda items the committee had considered the previous day. Along with key staff
members from each area, the committee reviewed the proposed FY07 Athletic
Department operating budget and the FY07 Hospitals and Health Centers (HHC) budget.
He reported that the HHC had achieved a 5.5% operating margin, which is significantly
beyond the budget expectation for FY06, and congratulated the team for this result. The
committee had also had a followup session about the Michigan Health Corporation.
Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee. Regent Taylor reported
that the committee's main focus at its meeting had been to meet with the chairs of each
campus's Committee on the Economic Status of the Faculty regarding their annual
reports. The committee had also received a report from Provost Sullivan on the status
of dean searches and reappointments.
Reappointment of the President
Regent Taylor made the following statement:
As chair of the Personnel, Compensation and Governance Committee, I would like to report
to the University community, the general public, and for our Regental records that over the past
several months the Regents have completed an extremely thorough review of President
Coleman 's performance since assuming office in 2002. We, the Regents, have had numerous and
exeniv7isusinsamn orslesontIs ujc.       We rta Inedthsrvcesofanexer

362



June Meeting, 2006

She has led the University of Michigan through a very turbulent period of deep budget cuts,
disruptive transition in the region's traditional economic base, and increased demands on
University services. At the same time, she has enhanced the University's financial stability, its
affordability for low-income families, and its overall academic stature. She has achieved these
things in a number of ways. For example, she has assembled, as we just heard in the prior
committee report, a highly effective senior leadership team. She has overseen the spectacular
success of the Michigan Difference fundraising campaign through her personal involvement and
relationship-building with alumni and major donors. We have now exceeded $2 billion in this
campaign, ahead of schedule. She led the affirmative action cases before the Supreme Court,
and managed their aftermath with the goal of enhancing our stature and reputation for valuing
all people.
We had a very unfortunate situation with NCAA basketball sanctions. She led the
resolution of that in a highly successful manner. The University's global influence has been
enhanced by her building of institutional partnerships with China. She introduced the M-Pact
program of extra grant aid to thousands of students each year. She has provided outstanding
leadership in building the physical campus of this university for the 21st century. She has
maintained and enhanced the University's academic strength and reputation through the state's
budget crisis, including the loss of $50 million in state support to the University's General Fund.
She has done that by leading her team to more effective business operations, cost-cutting, and
lower health care costs.
Since President Coleman took office in 2002, enrollment is up and total research
expenditures have grown from $655 million in 2002 to $753 million 2005. Annual private giving
is up by over $100 million. From 2002-2005, cumulative private giving has reached $652
million and the endowment is up from $3.4 billion to $4.9 billion.
Finally, when a president recruits executive officers and world class scholars, which is an
ongoing process at a university like Michigan, a key ingredient to the success is the perception of
a stable leadership. It is analogous to the sports culture of recruiting class athletes. They will
not commit if the tenure of the leadership is in doubt. Being president of this great University is
a complex and difficult undertaking, and we have been fortunate to have Mary Sue Coleman.
Based on the forgoing, I move that President Mary Sue Coleman by appointed for a second
five-year term, commencing in August of 2007, based on the term sheet which is before you, and
by reference to this term sheet, I request that it be made part of our record today. [See
Appendix].  This term sheet in essence gives Mary Sue Coleman the same benefits and
responsibilities as the first contract, with one notable difference and one technical change due to
IRS rules and regulations. The difference of note is that the first contract has a $500,000
retention bonus which is payable after the completion of five full years on the job. She will, of
course, have to serve the remaining year of her current term, which begins in fall 2006, to
receive that. But you also know that Mary Sue and Ken have given that amount of money to the
University as a gift. The second contract contains an annual retention bonus of $100,000 for
each year completed. But in this contract, the $100,000 will vest every year instead of vesting at
the end of five years. Under the second five-year contract, her base salary will be whatever her
base salary is at the end of the first five-year contract.
The technical change is minor, and is related to IRS rules increasing the base for matching
with respect to savings.
Regent Newman seconded the motion, and thanked Regent Taylor for all of his
hard work on this process during the year. She noted that Regent Taylor had led the
evaluation process, using the invaluable experience of his background in human
resources, and that the Regents are indebted to him for this work. She associated
herself with Regent Taylor's remarks regarding President Coleman.

363


